ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Tell me, the sixth point has been abandoned to another, and the eighth has been retired. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the staff of Joneberta Euveda, a member of the organizational department, as well as the improvements of the Board of Education on the university system." The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u1	Thank you, Chief. Good day, presidents, chiefs and congressmen. Euskal hezkuntza-systemaren ezaugarri nagusien bada bat bereziki azpimarratua berezi duena, age ekitiz ari naiz. Equity is one of the main features of the Basque education system. Over the years Basque society has been granted an inclusive and plural education system in which all citizens have been welcomed and protected. Euskal hezkuntza-systeman ume orok du berku propria eta zailtasun sozioekonomikoak ezin will say inorentzat oztopo izan. The socio-economic situation of families cannot and should not be an impediment to the education of children. In this regard, an important support system covering the various stages of education has been developed in Euskadi, from scholarships and study grants for the enrolment of non-university students to scholarships for university or other higher education. This complete system of aid has been and is a priority for the Urkullu Government, a commitment. The scholarships granted annually by the Basque Government have favored thousands of families, but as important as the perception itself are the information offered to families, the processing and management of the scholarships, the deadlines in which they are paid and other aspects. As such, the parliamentary group Euzko Abertzaleak refers the following question to the Education Adviser: what improvements has the Department of Education made in the non-university scholarship system? Zein hobekuntza burutu ditu Hezkuntza Sailak unibertsitatez kanpoko beken systeman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u2	Thank you, Mrs. News. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u3	Congressman, good day, Mr. President. This society has for nearly 40 years acquired a strong and firm educational system. Education unites us as a society and makes us stronger. Besides, it's one of the main tools of social barrier. So it's beyond pure education. It is one of the characteristics of our identity. The quality of the education system is measured by various factors, and one of them is the difference of choice. We are here to defend and promote the educational system for all of us and everybody. The economic limits of a family cannot limit the preparation of their children. I think we need to be on the edge of socially high-level with the economic help system that has been created around our education system. Of course, the entire community system of scholarships out of our college has come. It's the commitment to this government. All the families who occupy all the necessary demands of obtaining a scholarship will have that help. We are also pushing for improvements in the processing of scholarships. Although there are still some outstanding applications, we have already approved a total of 189,000 scholarships for 127.015 students. We are therefore talking about an important volume of aid applications which we have wanted to speed up for the benefit of families and also of educational institutions. In this regard, and for the first time, from the Department of Education we have sent applications for scholarships already completed to all families who applied for the previous course. In total, we have sent 135,000 completed applications. Families have only had to validate such documentation, either electronically or in the educational centre. This obvious improvement has also made it possible to speed up the subsequent analysis and award of economic aid. This was another objective we were pursuing, and we have achieved it. Until now, following the submission of applications at the beginning of the course, the department was able to resolve a small part of all applications before the end of the year. Last year, we managed to resolve 27.7 % of the applications before the end of December, and this year we have raised that percentage to almost 80 %. This is: Most families have already received their financial assistance before the end of the year. Other improvement actions have also helped to manage scholarships. For example: The call of scholarships was established in the year 2016-2010 yearly yearly study, online. We therefore guarantee universality in education and remain committed to complementary services, such as transport and school dining. They're certainly fundamental. During this course we have approved 124,000 scholarships for teaching materials amounting to EUR 13.7 million; 58,500 canteen grants, for which nearly EUR 37 million is allocated; or 3,300 travel grants. And we're still working. In this regard, we will examine, as requested by this House, the possibility of modifying the scholarships for teaching material, so that such aid is directed directly to educational institutions, thus enhancing the autonomy of the centre. Once that analysis has been completed, we will present it to the Committee on Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Okiñena of Maddalen, the members of the EH Collectors made for the president, concerning the right to decide." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. Seeing that some of the most significant expressions which mark the political line of this political course have been made in certain communications than in the Basque Act, we should like to know from the very Basque Act, and from the first hand; How is the right to decide, in your opinion, a perverse nature? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The right to decide, Mrs. Irricart, has no perverse character in itself. The use of deliberation may be perverse, both to the right and the quoted, and to the sense. And my goal is to use this concept for the strength and increase of the Euscal auto-gronx, to make it easier for the agreement we need. and don't use it to spoil our chance of advancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u9	Yes, Mr. Urkullu, but you don't have to answer me what is perverse. Look, I've got the program that you introduced to the elections a year and a half ago and a half ago, the program that was good for you to win the election, and it says very fully: "The Basque people, Euskal Herria, who are geographically based in seven territories, constitute a legal and political subject with the right and capacity to decide on their future, to be consulted and to have their democratically expressed will respected." Eta jarrazzazen from. And now you seem to make an integer correction about your program and your right to decide that you want to bring us a kind of caricature or something. Apparently, as the members of the left-handed members of the PSE-Euskadic say, the right of deciding takes place by election, and then we know what we're talking about. Gogora ekarri beharko nizuke, beharbada, Parlamentu honetan bertan, bai 2014.ean eta baita 1990. urtean onartutakoa: "The Basque Parliament proclaims that the Basque people have the right to self-determination". And we speak of one and the same thing, Mr. Urkullu, the right to determine the future, but when we speak of the right of deciding it, we place the democratic decision of the people in the midst of it. You decide now that you have to reformulate it, because said so is a perversion, and then, given the alarm generated, you try to matize yourself just like that, but without apprehension of the main idea. Because, in addition to "perversion", you have said that it seems to you a distortion of reality and does not take into account that even international leaders consider that there is a political conflict here; it returns to conceptions of politics of past times, denying that organised civil society can have legitimacy, right at the door of one of the greatest mobilizations that will take place in this country on June 10th, by the hand of Gure Esku Dago; it despises the lehendakari Etxegaray; it affirms that its mission is to respect the Spanish Constitution... And I could go on like this, because you haven't left a puppet with a head. But, Mr. Urkullu, perhaps in your government all this will cause no uneasiness or disturbance either from the Socialist Party or from the block 155, for example, the opposite: it will bring some relief. But I don't know what you can say about your side. This will be explained to us by the spokesmans of the Eural Party, but in February 2016 we will not forget that the National Asantibles of your party are admitted to you in Irua, and that we were all summoned to a meeting in favour of the right of deciding by the higher committees of your party. We can't forget that either. And a special concern and an alarm is caused by your words and when your words come, not at any moment. They come at a moment when we are making a great effort to agree on the threshold of the government, in the prevanceration, in the absence of the leak, in which we are making an immense effort, I insist that the leak is coming to you at this moment. It is with absolute responsibility, with which it gives us the first force of the opposition, Euskal Herria Bildu will try by all means to put a limit on this drift of his Government, which seeks to empty from content the right of the Basque people to decide their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll tell you again, Mrs. The right of deciding naturally has no perverse character; it may be a perverse to the right of deciding, or the use of its reference to it, and the sense of it. Do you think it's useful to talk about the right to decide the last documents? Look, my starting point is that our society is a variety and that's a positive value. We must structure this internal multiplicity by means of the mechanism of determining it together, and we must make the agreements between ourselves. That's the business of all the political parties of this legislature. You've mentioned the real purpose of the Autogobernus Lant. The right of deciding ought to be made, and this legislature must first agree, and make a treaty. The Basque society will have a final word of consent and agreement, and will execute the right of deciding. Let us therefore make the whole force a profound and extensive harmony, which is the duty of the legislatures to make the society decide. And taking up the variety between us, the Autogoberon Lantune was formed to make a great deal of agreement, what you've been talking about. Let us then proceed to this end. Look, it's a decision in today's world, it's a decision between us. Every decision requires a confession between those who share the work of deciding; every resolution also owes respect to the law. Yes, the respect due to legality ought not to bring about the violation of a democratic principle. And that's the sense of my right to decide. It is a key to the admission of the right of society to express and execute its will, that the voluntary agreements should be made for the use of the habits of life, and that the commitments should be respected. I repeat, it is not the nature of the democratic principle used by the concept of "right to decide" the perverse. Look, we form a plural society in a plural environment as well. To decide today is to co-decide. Any co-decision involves recognition, responsibility and mutual demand. Codecidir is to agree on the terms, the majorities and the limits, to do so as a result of a legal and agreed procedure. We are talking about a right, but maybe we should talk more about a principle, maybe we should talk more about a principle than we should talk about a right. And we must also give priority to our obligation and we have assumed it in this Parliament. Our obligation is to update self-government, adding the democratic principle and the principle of legality, to agree on the contents and their legal normativeization. It is our duty to add, understanding that respect for legality must not violate the democratic principle, which is to respect and respect the decision of Basque citizens, freely and democratically adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martín with Hiro with the parliamentary members of the Podemos team to the president, about the statements made by PPk and PNV in the department of pensions." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u13	Mr. President: On April 26, the Economics Councillor, Mr Azpiazu literally said that "only the unconscious or a resentful can criticize the agreement on pensions reached between the Basque Nationalist Party and the PP". Today his role is complicated, lehendakari. You have to choose between disallowing your economic advisor and asking for forgiveness from the pensioners of this country or making Mr Azpiazu's insult to the 65,000 people who have left this weekend in Euskadi to claim decent pensions. Your choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Mr Martinez, I will answer you clearly. With regard to the issue of pensions, the entire Government, including Councillor Azpiazu, we share the agreement reached in this House on 1 March with a broad consensus. I read you a key point approved by you and your group: "Reestablishing the link to the CPI as a pension update formula". You now criticise the pre-agreement reached to link pensions with the CPI for insufficient. This type of attitude, opportunistic, was criticized by Mr Azpiazu, who made no reference to pensioners at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u17	Lehendakari jauna, in his speech I understand that he has just called us "opportunists" and that the "unconscious" and " resentful" thing was more for us or for other groups that have criticized the agreement. First let me tell you that it is an honor for me and Elkarrekin We can receive these disqualifications for defending the rights of hundreds and thousands of pensioners in this country. Moreover, I prefer that the recipient of these adjectives be us than the 65,000 people who went out this Saturday to the streets of this country to criticize and denounce their party's pacts with the PP. And you know why? That some of us care much more about what Basque citizenship feels than the disqualifications that come out of the mouth of this government. And we have already told you a few times, and here I think it is time to repeat it: your government has a real allergy to criticism. They live in an ivory tower that touches the street only to draw votes, as we saw in other demonstrations. And the worst is that this lehendakari in the end has ended up believing this character and government marketing. Sometimes it reminds us almost of Margaret Thatcher's style and that allergy to criticism and the one-sided vision of the world you have.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u19	Only in this way can one explain these kinds of insults of Mr Azpiazu, either to pensioners, or to us, but especially to pensioners' groups. And not only that, but also the condescension and paternalism with which his government was headed and headed – yesterday we were also able to listen to the director of Lanbide – to the majority of Basque citizens when they pontificate about the impossibility of a pension worth 1,080 euros. Look, you've wanted to hang the pension savior medal with this last-minute patch, because in the end what it is, it's a patch, and what you've left is how you are, as accomplices to the suffering of thousands of people in Euskadi. You tell the widows, the non-contributory pensioners, who are with the minimums, that opposing the agreement with the People's Party is resentful, when the increase of 12 or 15 euros that their parties have agreed will not reach them even for the rise of the light of these months ago. Tell him, when you've already known that the PP, his partner in this pension Those patches are never gonna shut up our elders or our pensioners. These covenants are an added pain. Some say that without penance there is no repentance. If you want to show that you really care about our pensioners, you have two measures at hand: complete the pensions up to 1,080 euros and on May 26 humbly approach the demonstration that will take place in the streets of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u20	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martinez, it's okay to permanently pull topics. Look, if I had an allergy to criticism, I'd be permanently in the UVI. Look, I do not consider it consistent or responsible to criticize an agreement 15 days after I have claimed it in this House, and this is what you do. I remind you that the pre-agreement in this matter between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Spanish Government is reached with five votes and that your party has 71 votes. I don't understand what you're waiting for to put those 71 votes to work and get what you're saying, Mr. Martinez. Look, I remind you that where you govern you do not have competence in the area of pensions, as does the Basque Government, Mr Martínez. The difference is that in Euskadi we have a commitment to social protection and we have put in place a system to supplement the pension income of pensioners who need it the most, something you could do but don't. We have to look into the seriousness and depth of the situation of pensions, Mr Martínnez. This is why the treaty of Toledo was formed. We must present and agree to guarantee our present and future pensions. On March 1st, this congressman, with your support and support from your team, is on his way to get what he asked for. I don't think it's fair, Mr Martínnez, to say that it's too little now. We are acquainted with difficulties, and this subject requires a full care to cultivate and obtain, as well as the most comprehensive agreement we can. Look, I assure you that you would have some more credibility if you brought to this House proposals that you were applying where you govern. It gives me the impression that what they are trying to do is to use pensioners for a partisan interest. An example of political opportunism. The responsibility for pensions, I repeat, lies with the Spanish Government. And I am aware of the difficulties of people with lower pensions. And here we supplement your income, Mr Martínez, but you cannot pretend that income guarantee income replaces the shortcomings of the public pension system, which is and is the responsibility of the Spanish Government, and only of the Spanish Government. We are a serious and responsible Government and we will fulfil the commitments contained in our programme. We will continue to call for the transfer of the economic regime from Social Security as reflected in the non-compliance statute, which is also on our government agenda. Our obligation is to put citizens in response to their demands from the beginning of reality and sustainability, Mr Martínez, as it corresponds to a mature and responsible society and also to its mature and responsible governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Natalia Rojo Sozana Socialelists of the United States made to the Chief of Environmental Planets, and Housing Hospitals, concerning the preservation of the natural inheritance of the Environment Administration, and the progress of the billing of legislation over the change of climate." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u23	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. The Department of the Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing began this legislature with determined legislative planning. Initially, the only law envisaged was that of the development of the draft general law on the environment, climate change and nature conservation, which, being a single project, would assume competences, actions, commitments and updates, all in a single normative text. Mr Councilman, as you know, the need to review and update legislation affecting the environment has been called for in this Parliament, in this House, over the past few years. Europe marks the strategic lines, approves directives and conditions the laws of the Member States, and, consequently and in the case of Spain, also conditions the autonomous communities, therefore, also Euskadi. The scope of the law initially envisaged by the Basque Government was to be as extensive as it was complicated. On the one hand, the general environmental law must be a useful and strong tool for action. The nature conservation law has to do with different administrations, primary sector, associative tissue, users... And that of climate change will require political and social debate in order to establish important commitments to be fulfilled in the ecological transition of Euskadi. However, we have been able to know the Government's decision to put forward three draft laws instead of one, as reflected in the legislative timetable that we knew at the beginning of this parliamentary term. We understand that this decision responds to a legal analysis and the feasibility of legislative and parliamentary procedure will have been taken into account. For all this, Mr. Counsellor, I would like to ask you this question: what is the drafting phase of these three bills? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u24	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, as you have said, we have indeed decided to split into three different rules what was originally envisaged as a single bill, but I can assure you that this is a well-founded decision. You know that, in general terms, the principle of continuity operates in the administrations, and in the previous legislature, within the department, work began on the draft general law on the environment, climate change and nature conservation, which was conceived, as you have said, as a framework rule that should update and order all previous legislation on this broad subject. In addition, a field that has undergone major changes in recent decades as a result of the intensive regulatory action promoted by the European Union. But when we return to the previous work and after consulting our technicians and recognized experts, we come to two conclusions. The first, that focusing this whole issue on a single bill was going to lead us to a very extensive text, complex parliamentary procedure and even more complex implementation. And the second, that having each block of this possible law frame specific, clearly differentiated recipients, had all the meaning to approach the work within the framework of three draft laws. In this sense, environmental protection has a major impact on the economic activity of enterprises and on the productive sector, and it involves very directly the municipalities. Conservation of nature has as its natural subjects, on the one hand, municipalities and parliaments, but also the primary sector and conservationist associations. And climate change is a very cross-cutting issue, involving departments and sectors of all kinds, transport and mobility, industry, housing, agriculture, territorial planning... all of them in setting targets and commitments for the decarbonization of our life model. These are the reasons why we have decided to undertake the elaboration of three different rules: the law of environmental administration, to establish basically a new model of administrative intervention and authorizations, seeking greater simplification and agility without diminishing the rigour; the law of conservation of the natural heritage, which will incorporate aspects of climate change into what is the conservation of the Basque natural heritage, will establish the classification of protected spaces according to internationally accepted typologies and will highlight, among other issues, the value of peripheral protection spaces and ecological transition corridors, and, finally, the law of climate change, which inherits from the project that was already in Parliament and that, despite the general consensus that it obtained, was not approved, will go in line with the Basque Climate Strategy 2050. We are working very intensively on the drafts and we hope to proceed shortly with the order of prior approval of the draft laws on environmental administration and conservation of natural heritage, initiating the process of consultation and public participation of all the managers involved and of the citizenry itself. The objective we have is that the three laws could be passed by the Governing Council and referred to this House in the first quarter of next year 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, members of the Popula team made to the president about the right to decide." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Today is a good time in Euskadi. We have stability. We are in the middle of economic and social recovery. You have a coalition government. Here we are, supporting the budgets year after year, and I believe that I also contribute to that climate of stability. But you know, I'm from Vitoria. In Vitoria the summer days when it does good, because in the afternoon the north leaves and sometimes end in storm. And that sunny good day that we have now in Euskadi because it has a cloud and that cloud that has crossed us you call it "right to decide", is the right of self-determination of all life. I listened carefully to you in the wording you made here this morning, and when you explained to us that that right you call "to decide" is an expression of a democratic principle, which you see can be opposed to a principle of legality. I want to clear that up. That is as much as saying that the majority may be in democracy above the law, but the majority cannot be above the law. The grace of democracy and the key is that the majority is subject to the laws and that the laws can only be amended in accordance with the legal foresight itself, that one cannot determine an area where one has a majority and, determined the area where one has a majority, then arrogate to that majority the right to impose itself on the laws, because the law is the expression of democracy. And I believe that, therefore, we are starting from a basic error and a misconception, which is what leads to the formulation of the right to decide or the right to self-determination, in which you come to coincide with that part of the House. We have seen all this, Mr Lehendakari, with concern in a political expression which has the pretensions of becoming a legal norm in the Self-Government Paper, where, in fact, in a profoundly sovereignist proposal, a new political subject is defined, which is the Basque people, the Basque people which includes seven territories, one in Spain and another in France, in different autonomous communities, and which would be the holder of that sovereignty, and whose characteristic is not that we are going to create a community of law where we are citizens think what we think, but that its main characteristic is that we have an identity and an identity which must necessarily be a nationalist identity. This is contrary to any basic democratic principle that defends that the political community makes us citizens with rights and allows us to have complex identities and therefore protects plural societies. And I'm worried that that's the vision you want to move here, I'm worried and I think it's disturbing. The right to decide, therefore, that the Basque people should be preached, that the decision of the Spanish people as a whole should be disregarded as far as they are concerned in the constitutional sphere is concerned, and that even the Basques should be excluded because the political subject is those seven territories, here it is decided only between three. We also do not know how to plot, how to divide the right to decide. We know that the practical formulation of that right leads directly to absurdity. And so, I don't think we're going anywhere. Your party, you, have a majority in the House if you want it there; Bildu follows you. And that sounds like an easy majority. They follow in that, in that path of rupture. Most stability, I suppose, is more complex, but it bears much more positive fruit for the whole of Basque society. You have a responsibility, and I ask you to cool down that debate, to withdraw that proposal, to talk to your parliamentary group, to understand that this cannot be legal and that it does not lead us to any path of consensus. And, if you allow me to tell you – truly, and you know I tell you from affection – to think about it, because so much effort in the right to decide, in the end it can have the consequence that you lose the ability to decide you have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, you ask me why it means to me the right to decide, and I answer you: the right to decide is a basic democratic principle. To exercise the right to decide is to consult the citizenry and, in our case and with regard to relations with the State, for example, to decide in a legal and agreed manner, which is what we were proposing. You have made an incursion into a distinction between democracy and law. Man, I believe, Mr Alonso – and I say to you with all affection, too – that democracy and the law have to go hand in hand and in unison, and that if a majority decides to change the law, why is it not possible to change the law, if the majority is democratic? I understand that it is necessary to legalize the democratic principle that is used as a concept of the right to decide. In Western democratic societies, this principle is not an element of confrontation, but a point of meeting, which is just as we put it. I would ask you to stop aggravating an apocalypse that you do not believe yourself, Mr Alonso, and to contribute responsibly and constructively to progress in an agreement that is ratified by Basque society. You talk about the summer and the clouds and the storms. We are in spring; let's face it from the concept of "being in spring". Look, the objective of the parliamentary speech you allude to is to deepen self-government, and we have the opportunity to do so, if we work with genuine will to agree, respecting political pluralism and assuming the different feelings of national belonging that are quoted in our society. The paper works to define the present and the future of our self-government, and this is where it is appropriate to regulate the democratic principle, to establish under what conditions, with which majorities, with what limits, to agree on a clear and agreed procedure. We demand the ability to convene consultations in a legal and agreed manner. It is a question of applying the same procedure that was used in 1979 with the Statute of Autonomy. We ask that we be given the power to consult Basque society, even to know the position of the citizenry on a new framework of relations with the State. I was also thinking earlier about what we could propose on the electoral agenda. Look, I tell you clearly what we propose: respect for the will of the people must at every moment find a way of applying it and its entanglement in the legal order, Mr Alonso. The democratic principle requires that the decision of Basque citizenship be given a relevant and primary value, which requires the State to assume the obligation to negotiate and agree on constitutional adjustments or, where appropriate, precise legal adjustments to respond to the desire expressed by Basque citizenship, excluding the State itself, in short, the principle of unilaterality which it imposes. Having said that, I, Mr Alonso, and returning again to what is the objective of the parliamentary presentation and to what is the situation in which we are, I would like to reiterate an offer to you: to accompany society to ensure that the Statute of Gernika, approved under the legal and democratic principle, is fulfilled in its entirety, demonstrates the respect that proclaims an agreed decision, agreed with the State and ratified. Complying with the agreed and legally endorsed should not be an option in a democratic society; it should be an obligation. We have an opportunity to put forward a viable proposal, politically, legally and legally, a proposal that has an institutional basis and is ratified. After all, it is up to Basque society to exercise its right and decide whether or not to approve the proposal we agree and agree on. Society has that right; our obligation is to try to reach an institutional agreement that can be endorsed by Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Cristina Macazaga Sáenz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president, the question of Margüello. Mrs Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u31	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. On 27 April it was known that the Basque Government, in the Margüello case Mr Urkullu, do you believe that it is upbuilding for Basque citizenship, that the Basque Government does not demand responsibilities from those accused of corruption?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. Allow me, Mrs Macazaga, to make a clarification of your question, a clarification which seems to me to be essential in this case: the Basque Government has neither withdrawn nor appealed, nor has it given up any approach within that procedure. The case to which you refer is for trial and the Basque Government has held up to the last second in the oral trial, making its allegations and setting its positions. That said, and in response to your question, the Government believes that the uplifting thing is that everyone must respond to what results from a fair trial, processed in accordance with the timely, necessary and indispensable guarantees in a democratic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u34	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs Macazaga, your word is yours. Caso Margüello
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u35	Mr. Margüello, a friend of former Councillor Gabriel Inclán, and Mr. Darpón, high office with Inclán, deny irregularities. In fact, Mr. Inclán came to acknowledge that he learned everything a posteriori. And it's that we all see corruption. All but your government, Mr Erkoreka. What a coincidence! I don't know if it has anything to do with the fact that, as has been published, Mr Margüello, Inclán and Darpón, and company, are very friendly or perhaps the fact that they are PNV. The point is that if your Government were, Mr Erkoreka, these alleged corrupts would go away with rosites. They don't care if they've been doing such ugly things as embezzlement, prevarication, fraud or negotiating prohibited activities with public officials. You do like Rajoy, you come out here to this very solemn rostrum to condemn and reject corruption, but act followed and behind your government puts itself at the service of your party, the PNV, and people accused of corruption, so that they do not even have to return the money that they put in the pocket of all the Basques, 7 million euros that these people stole from us Basque citizens. His Government had no decency today to ask them to return what they had taken wrongly. And the truth is that this favored treatment of your government is not only politically untenable, but it is also ethically reprehensible. Tell me, Mr Erkoreka, how can you look at Basque citizens and tell them that you have to fulfil your obligations when your Government allows people who, as they themselves acknowledge, have committed crimes to be left unpunished? You want to leave them free of guilt. And no, Mr. Erkoreka, we don't confuse the role of the prosecution and the role of the judge. But it is difficult for a judge to judge, if there is not a person who accuses and denounces. And today, the main interested party, the main affected party, the Basque Government does not accuse and denounce. His Government sought to make it difficult for judges and easy for offenders associated with its party. But above all, Mr Erkoreka, after your Government has taken the indecent decision not to ask for punishment for the accused in the Margüello case Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Macazaga, I have to start by thanking Rajoy for his equalization. I never thought I'd do that kind of honor. Second, look, I can assure you that I have no personal relationship with any of the defendants, absolutely no, no friendship or enmity. I don't know any of them. Therefore, little relationship or little influence I can have from that point of view. Otherwise, look, there's public affairs. – even if it's hard for you to recognize it – in which demagogy, stridence, the search for high-sounding expressions are useless. What's worth it is seriousness, rigour and guarantee. And here, I have said this more than once, in this House and outside it, the Basque Government is acting as set out by the Government's Legal Services, whose honorability I believe you will not question. The view of the Government's Legal Services is known to the House because I referred it to a 127-sheet file when the oral trial was opened more than a year ago. They work in the House 127 folios. I suppose you will have read it, and you will have been able to see that the Legal Services of the House were already saying there that this is not a simple matter, especially for two reasons, for two reasons. First reason. Look, this is a matter in which there have already been seven judicial pronouncements, two of the criminal jurisdictional order and five of the administrative-contentious jurisdictional order, and in all the Basque Government was in person and in all the Basque Government lost. The positions of the Basque Government defending certain positions did not prevail, they did not prosper in any of these seven procedures. Second reason. There have been two testimonies throughout the procedure from two directors of the Office of Economic Control of the Government, the highest body of economic control of the Government, from two different, ideologically disparate governments, which have nothing to do with each other, but, nevertheless, they coincided in one thing: in finding that there had been no economic breakdown of the Basque Finance, of any kind, in both cases. You will understand that some coherence has to occur between the statement, between the position of the two senior officials of the Office of Economic Control of the Government, and legal representation in the House; some coherence has to occur in this case. You say "and what will happen in the event of a conviction." Don't have any doubts. See, the Government has remained until the end of the oral trial by setting its positions and analysing, by virtue of this position that it has configured from the beginning of the oral trial, maintaining its positions as a civil actor and fixing its position at the end of the oral trial. I'll send you back to look at all the files. That is so, if the judgment considers in this case that there has actually been property damage, there is no doubt: the Basque Government will act until it recovers the last cent of euro from which the procedure that was illegally used, which was used with funds other than those legally established, has been established. Don't worry, the Government's action in this regard will be forceful and clear, but rigorously, seriously, without demagoguery.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u38	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. 9th point on the subject list: The question is, "Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors made to the president about the spectatical experiments which the president has to change the prison policy." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you said in an interview that you were working for the next few months to bring in an approximation of euscal prisoners. We regard this purpose as good because we are in the most perfect context of all these words. I'd like to know what strategy you have in mind for that, which you're going to use. In fact, you also said that you feel, that Rajoy is sensitive to changing prison policy. I hope you don't miss the success of the strategy, at least, only on this sensibility of Rajoy's, don't put all apples in that vomit of Rajoy's sensibility. For, according to all the omens, the Government does not seem to have such will. The Spanish Government says that it will refuse to change the new political reality, and that it will not change the policy of prison, will maintain dispersal, dispersal, separation, isolation, etc. Then I'd like to ask you what your strategy is and what your perception of Rajoy is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, it's not for me to interpret the steps that President Rajoy should take to change prison policy. I know what I have spoken to him, and I rely on what I have said, and what I can say is that whenever I have been with him I have presented him to him, and have given him so many proposals. In order to emphasize one, in the April of the previous year, I sent him a plan for the close of the prisoners after the annihilation of him. In the presence of this end, what we are concerned with, and what we can do, is to defend. One, for example, to assume a principle of reality. Two, trying to promote the proper conditions of changing prison policy. And three, forming agreements. And it has caused a profound political division, and that which has vanished from memory, life, life, life, and political life, must either contribute or assist in this, which is the illusion of me, in the hope of being able to give a step in the present. And not only the interpretation of what Rajoy did and what he said but what action we can have. Well, look, I introduced them to President of the Navarre Foru Community, in the Bertize Expression, two compounds for the basic agreement of all political forces. One, the global critical reflection on the past, which is explicitly received by the violence of the past, and the second is to fit the prison policy into the new context. And these two compacts here, in the legislature, would be a decisive assent to the proper conditions I have mentioned, realists, and cavilists, and even those to discuss with what the President of the Spanish Government is. That's where we should be on our way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u43	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, you're telling me you don't have to interpret it, but you've interpreted Rajoy's position, your interlocutor's position, and you said you see a sensit in it. And I agree that it's not just a matter of sensibility, but what you're going to take, how you're gonna take it to her, what protection or what lever you're going to make that announcement. But I hear them, and that's why I hear the government's responses. The Government insists that it will not move the file. Rajoy was telling the victims' lobbies yesterday and Zoido was saying it in the anti-terrorist pact, two sides of the same coin, of the same message. I also listen to his government partners, who participated yesterday in the meeting of the anti-terrorist pact, and by Margarita Robles' mouth they said that he does not touch. And this worries me. And in a way I also see some contradiction because also the president of his party, Andoni Ortuzar, said that he does not see an attitude of change in the Spanish government. In an interview a few days ago he said that beyond some statement by some representative of the Basque PP, quickly disauthorized by the way, he did not perceive such a will. They're in the lockdown. And I want to know whether that is the feeling you have, precisely because the Spanish Government has shown that it has no say in this area. From Aznar's offer of "peace for prisoners" to Mr. Semper's statements, with a 48-hour deadline, to bring away, including Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Zoido, who also spoke and conditioned the disappearance of ETA at the end of the dispersion, have shown that they have no word. And I'm surprised that you somehow give Mr. Rajoy that credibility. I would like to see in you an attitude of complaint, of demand, towards Rajoy, as I say to make a lever and for the state to move, and to see in you a more assertive attitude in this area, Mr Lehendakari, because we have urgency. We have humanitarian emergencies, there is the issue of sick prisoners, dispersion, isolation; we have legal emergencies, to bring prison competence, and we have emergencies from a new time, from the beginning of reality, because we must move from an exceptional policy to an ordinary policy and, hopefully, towards a prison policy that supports political normalization and coexistence in this country. And in that we are and in that it has commitment EH Bildu and is willing to attend to those emergencies. And I hope, beyond intentions or voluntarism that you see in your interlocutor, you see a collective impulse, unstoppable in this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u44	Thank you, Mr. Azuga, your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, what I said was that I don't know how to interpret the steps Rajoy should take. I've interpreted what I've spoken to him and his sensitisation. And in that sense I made statements. Zuk on bathing hobetu dakizu, éta Legebiltzarrak berak ere badaki, iazko bai otsailean eta baita martxoan, zer ekarpen egin genion Espainiako Gobernuaren presidentari (Proposal for an agreement to share a reorientation of prison policy); baita martxoan, lehen aipatu doubiana (Proposal for a new relocation of Basque prisoners-preses in prisons), eman egin nion. Beraz, ekimentsuak gara Gobernu Honetan. I have already mentioned what was agreed on by the Bert name or the proposed Bert name. In the statement of the Berizex we proposed to form a staff of prison policy, a group of jobs that will be developed by the consent of the teams of the legislatures that are obtained. And among propositions one must remark: To encourage the prisoners to approach the prisons near their own dwellings in a ethical point of view and a legal point of view. That's how he anticipates the prison law. In short, because it is necessary to encourage a policy of social society, and to agree with the definitions given by the Constitution, and to furnish means of appeal. She's been working on this line a long time. And from an ethical point of view and with all due respect to the memory of the victims, I find it incomprehensible that a political condition should be made of the removal of prisoners. This measure only causes suffering to families, persons who have not committed any crime. And to suffer unnecessarily, it is not to do politics, it is not ethical behavior, and it is not legal under prison law either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "About the proclamations made by the pensioners of the House of Ibañez to the President of the Union." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u47	Yes, ma'am. Congressmen, chief departments, president, good morning. In the past few months the pensioners have lit up the streets with their proclamations, and in the 5th of May they have filled the streets of our capitals to ask for worthy pensions. The agreement reached in Madrid, or the pre-agreement between the PNV and the PP, seems to be clearly insufficient, timely and does not solve the structural problems of pensions and has certainly failed to deactivate the streets. The claim for a minimum pension of EUR 1,080 is consolidated. And mutations will continue in a march organized in the 26th of the month. Besides, the pensioners want you to be there. The President wishes himself to be supported by pensioners, to protect their claims, to protect their dignity. We don't know whether you'll be there or not, Mr. Erkoa didn't make it clear when he asked about it, but it's clear that we've been interposed and that our responsibility is to give this question a political answer, Mr. Urkullu. That's why we want to ask you what's the password for a pensioner's need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u49	♪ I'll tell you where I'm going ♪ Mrs Kortajarena, this issue is not new in this House, as many initiatives have been put forward in relation to the public pension system – without going any further, today three. In all cases we have reiterated that Euskadi lacks competence, that this debate must be transferred to the central Government, the General Courts and the Toledo Pact. The Basque Parliament has already spoken in this regard on 1 March, with broad political consensus on this issue, and I am sure that it does not need to be reminded of the points of agreement. We are committed to people who receive low pensions. Don't let him have the slightest doubt, don't let him have any doubt. The Basque Government is well aware of the difficult situations that arise and complement its income through income-guarantee income. Thanks to the union of the Basque society, we've had low pensions for the past 10 years. That's exactly what we use 46 million dollars for. Such measures are only allowed in the Euscadin, and nowhere else. We are therefore speaking of the endeavour of all the people of Eucharadicus to defend those who are most in need. We guarantee the guarantee income for pensioners whose income does not reach the minimum established, we offer the supplementary housing benefit, social emergency aid and payment compensation for the pharmaceutical co-payment. Let us flee from partisan debates when it comes to consolidating and guaranteeing the future of a basic pillar of our welfare state, such as the public pension system. Let us act responsibly, put forward solutions for today's pensioners and measures to ensure tomorrow's pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u50	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u51	Yes, thank you. The issue of running away from party debates is quite complicated, when a political party puts this issue on the table to negotiate or approve budgets, when that is the condition for approving budgets, Mr Azpiazu. And anyway, we're talking about liability agreements. That is what we have been talking about for the last few months, when we have brought to this House, as you said very well, on numerous occasions, the debate on decent pensions and on the EUR 1,080. And it's true that all these months we've heard the excuses and arguments you've been talking about. We have heard that competition is not of this member, and we have also heard what mechanism and how they fit together, and we know how these low pensions are complied here; and we know that only 16000 citizens receive that commitment. We know that too. We here seek to open the dispute about dignity, and it seems to us also that this is a discussion about our social model, that it is not about endurance, that it is not about ambition, it is no excuse that there is no competition. That this is a dispute about our model of society, that we speak of the resolutions we make to guard our fellow-citizens and to live with dignity. Mr Lehendakari mentioned earlier the "principle of reality", and from that principle of reality, from the principle of reality that pensioners and pensioners live in this Autonomous Community, from that precariousness to which many of the women who receive pensions are condemned, we believe that it is possible, that this minimum pension of EUR 1,080 is possible. And the agreement reached between the PNV and the PP in Madrid shows this. In that agreement the PNV has not said where the money will come from for that increase, it has not been said who will pay it, where the resources will come from... Nothing has been said at all. What has been seen is that when there is political agreement, there are sufficient tools to implement those agreements. And by appealing to that role that Lehendakari mentioned in his first speech on pensions, of those agreements that we have to reach in this House, we raise that this issue of minimum pensions is a matter of reaching agreements, of those responsible actions. It is a question of putting political will, of agreeing and deciding when and how we face this path towards pension dignity. That's the way. When there is political will, Arantxa Tapia also said, there are possibilities...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's, your time is up. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u53	Mrs. Kortajarena. I would like to reiterate once again that this is not the appropriate framework or forum for discussing these issues, but that it is also necessary to be clear what is the purpose of income-guarantee income. Its purpose is not, because it would be impossible, to constitute the economic duties which other institutions do not fulfil in their proper sphere. No way! And much less, to ensure the incomes of money when we're in the process of a change in the rent. EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, who claim in this House that the Basque Government guarantees a minimum benefit of 1,080 euros, have been ruling or co-governing in municipalities and communities where mobilizations have also taken place for three years. What initiatives have they taken in these areas? In Navarre, for example, this amount is not guaranteed. Which European country does it? What administration does it do? None, none. And the equation must also be turned around. I mean, how do you intend to finance that will to establish a minimum pension? It is not just a question of political will, it is a question of financing. Where are they gonna get the money from? What new revenue and items are they going to take away from? Meanwhile, everything else is siren songs, toast to the sun and cheap demagogy. Using our elders is playing with people's expectations, confusing them, in a clear example of political opportunism. Yes, of political opportunism. We must speak responsibly and not create false hopes. Because, in short, the public pension system requires an independent and integral debate, which requires a broad political consensus and broad vision, because we are all going to be pensioners in the future. Don't forget us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u54	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Number of points in theme list: "Interregation, Joseph Ramone Becerlo Caroll, members of the Podemos, members of the Public and Autobernus, about the state of the Eustat Plant." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief Department, all the members of the legislature, all good days. Mr. Erkoreka, two years ago, in this legislature, there was a decision about the Eucstat. In this decision, five requests were made perfectly clear. One: An inquiry is performed by Eustaten, in order to determine how many workers it takes to make the common eupstate activity. Number two: I want all the workers working all the time. Third: Eustaten, specifying workers' jobs, on one hand measuring his workloads, and making him introduce a new RPT. The fourth was to fix the workers' jobs with a public offer. And the fifth, of course, is the agreement and compact signed with the unions. Respect. It's been two years since that decision and you haven't done anything. You didn't do anything to make it right, but you did something to make it worse. And the question is, why did you do that? Why didn't you do anything and why did you do it to make things worse? I would ask you, Mr Erkoreka, what is going on in the Eustat, what is going on in the Eustat to breach the parliamentary agreement of 2016, what is going on in the Eustat so that there is such a high conflict that it has led you today to have more than the half-staff between the street and the street. What is happening so that you have brought about with your actions the union unity that is not possible in other areas? What are you doing not to respond to unanimous requests summarized in the five agreements reached by this Parliament in 2016? The first, that a study be made in the Eustat to see how many workers were needed to develop the normal and usual activity of the Eustat. The second, how to organize the Eustat activity, so that all the workers who are in the workforce can work throughout the day. The third is to give concrete expression to the employment relationship of the Eustat through a measurement of the workloads of all jobs. And the fourth, establish, achieve, consolidate jobs through a public offer. And above all, comply with the agreements that have been reached with the different unions throughout this time. My question is what's going on in the Eustat. And I make it your maximum responsibility, but it is clear that there are also responsibilities on the part of those who are leading the Eustat and those who are holding responsibilities in the Vice-Advisory of Public Service. There are the responsibilities. And the question is what these workers have done to them so that they can be treated like this; what have these 100 people – 80% women, with an average age of 57, and who have been in the company for 27 years – done to them by these surveyors, these inspectors, so that they have them today in precarious conditions like I thought there could not have been since I was on the subject of SOS Deiak. Did 110 decisions of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country in 2010 make them permanent workers after they had been on covert contracts? The conditions of these people are, at least, regrettable. They all work part-time – at most they work between three and six months a year – and therefore only contribute from three to six months a year, and that will have an impact on their pension. And yet they have to have full availability to take over all the contracts and campaigns that are going to be done and they also have to carry out that work in either of the three territories. They are today, the paradigm of precariousness, to such an extent that before obtaining, in 2010, the sentences that made them fixed workers, when they were hired, let's say, under rope, in the Eustat, because they were already developing their work, they were paid from the budget line that was called "fungible material", "fungible material". They are not expendable material, Mr Erkoreka, they are people, they are people with dignity and rights. They are public workers who stand up every day to do their job as best as possible and to get this country out of the way and for this country to have the statistics it needs. They're not expendable material, Mr. Erkoreka. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Please, silence! Show some respect, please. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Becerra, I am going to ask you for a favor: do not blame me, do not restrict me statements and positions that I have never defended. I never said, neither here nor outside, that they were consumable material. I respect as people as much as you respect that collective, I respect your dignity and your right to work exactly as you do. I have not come to cheer; you have indeed come to cheer and have forced your expressions to provoke them, but please do not reproach me either that kind of expressions or the situations before the year 2010, which tells me that they were not know how. I was not here in 2010 nor did I have any responsibility to deal with the management of the staff of the Eustat. So let's be rigorous in the first place, please. If you want us to break the rigor, I don't have any inconvenience either. I will have more difficulties than you, because you are a parliamentarian and you can afford joys that I from the government cannot afford, but I also know how to slide on that ground. Well, that said, allow me two observations prior to your inquiry. First, you ask me about the implementation of a non-legislative proposal that was passed, not in this legislature, in the previous legislature. Two years ago and peak as you have shown. A different legislature, with a different House, with completely different majorities and in which paradoxically its parliamentary group had no presence, did it not? You'll know, I'm sure you'll know at this point in the legislature, that the proposals for laws will fall at the end of the legislature, will fall, will cease to have the effects that may arise, won't you? So rescue them two, three or twenty legislatures later, because it can have a determined virtuality to cheer, but of course from the point of view of political action and the action of impulse of government work, because it has a frankly secondary relevance. Secondly – you have already pointed out but I do not want to overlook it – you are asking me about a human resources management tool, the RPT, which is fundamental in our public service management system, but which by definition is always managed by at least two departments; one is the sectoral department responsible for the organization of the service, the other is the horizontal department generally responsible for the development of the RPT and for the overall management of public resources. I would like to say this not in order to escape your challenging work, but simply because there are approaches that you formulate that logically, I am responsible for one of the departments because I may not be able to answer simply. Organizational issues that do not fall within the scope of my department's responsibility. Well, let's focus then on what we're talking about. We are talking about an autonomous body, the Eustat, to which the law has recommended the responsibility to draw up official government statistics. Like all institutes and agencies of this nature, it carries out its work on the basis of surveys that are of very different periodicities – some are annual, others are biannual, five-year, ten-year... Then there are others even that are short-term, of periodicity less than a year–. Of course, the staffing needs to meet these intermittent requirements, which are irregular over time, are very different and difficult to respond to a stable approach. For this reason, the work of Eustat is carried out by two groups: a stable group of civil servants, public employees, who are responsible for the design, management and development of statistical plans, namely, with their auxiliary staff, who make up approximately 106 staff; and, later, another staff – another group – responsible for the development of field work, the collection of information and data that are then drawn up in the statistical conformation. Well, the first ones, I've told you they're civil servants; the second ones, those who make up this second group that does field work, were originally, at the time you were referring to, temporary-labour, within the framework of what is provided for in section 19 of the Civil Service Act. It is true that, at that time, especially from the year 2009-2010, a process of judicialization of the situation of these personnel began, with recourse to labour jurisdiction, and labour jurisdiction was issuing sentences, recognizing their situation and recognizing that, first of all, they respond to a permanent need of the Government, therefore, they must be indefinite; and second, that since their work is not continuous but intermittent, they must be indefinite – the 101 sentences that were issued in this matter say – but discontinuous – it is not my expression, it is an expression of the judgments themselves: indefinite, not fixed, discontinuous. Except in one case, which, extraordinarily, the corresponding sentence said it had to be indefinite but continuous; a case of the 99. There the sentences are clear, the sentences had to be enforced, but before the process of drafting the sentences was completed, there is already a meeting between the Administration and the representation of that staff – of this collective – and an agreement is reached in February 2011 on the agreement – it is entitled as such – "Regulatory agreement on the appeal of staff declared to be indefinite by the General Administration serving in the Eustat". This is signed by all but one unions – which is not ELA, but there is one that stays out. From there a series of commitments is acquired, the first of which concerns the elaboration of an organizational study that then allows to lay the bases of the regularization of the collective, because once the sentence has been pronounced, the collective must be regularized as all the templates of the public administration, with its corresponding RPT and with the incardination in the mechanisms of ordinary functioning of the public service. Work on the job balance is beginning: there is a first proposal prepared by the Administration in 2015 and presented to the sectoral table. That's when you register the non-law proposal you're referring to – the year 2015, which then doesn't debate and approve until a year later, so that you can see here if there is activity, there are contacts, there are meetings, there are negotiations; there is no debate and vote until a year later. But that resolution is adopted, to which you referred in February 2016, which consists of five points. You have made a reference to those five points, and I am going to give you another reference – also of the five points – and I am going to tell you that, as far as possible, the Government is fully complying with those points contained in the non-law proposal of the year 2016, of another legislature – I insist – but look, within the framework of what the Administration had agreed with the union representation of these groups in the period 2010-2012. In the context of the agreement, because the fifth point of that GNP stated precisely that the agreements should be complied with. Therefore, the agreements are an unspeakable reference. Well, it said the first point that "modify the approaches of the first RPT proposal for the interviewer-inspector staff that the sectoral table has presented". Well, not only has that initial proposal been modified, but countless times, as evidenced by the reading of the various minutes which reflect what has been done, agreed and discussed at the sectoral tables. Then, he said, "Enjoy an organizational study to assume by fixed personnel the performance of the ordinary activity of the Eustat and the creation of a technical commission to evaluate the workloads". Well, the technical committee was set up there on 8 July 2016; it developed three alternatives on the basis of one of which a set of proposals was drawn up, in my opinion good, frankly good, which are going to be put forward in the near future, but, well, they are analysed. at different sectoral bureaux convened for this purpose. I quote, there are five: March 2017, April 25, 2017, November 9, 2017, January 25, 2018, February 22, 2018. Of the five, three were monographic only on the Eustat. Logically, in the debate, in the negotiation on the RPT in addition to the issues relating to its stability, its discontinuity, which was what the judgments of labour jurisdiction had said, other issues are incorporated, such as the work centre, such as the linguistic profile, which is perceptive in all the RPT – and you are sure that, in the end, trade union representatives can testify to this, you will be able to see that an effort has been made to adapt to the profile of each very important person. In the area of language profiles, I'm not going to tell you, because it would be illegal for you to say, that you've made yourself a tailor-made suit, but you understand me, right? I'm not going to tell you because it would be illegal for you to do it, but you've made yourself a tailor-made suit. And as a result, since an issue can no longer be delayed than since the year 2012 when the last sentences were handed down is still in the air, an RPT has been drawn up which was approved last Tuesday in the Governing Council. Therefore, the RPT is already in place. You were talking to me about the fourth and fifth points. Both speak of the call for a consolidation OPE. Okay, but it's just that the consolidation OPE can't be done without RPT. The RPT is already in. The RPT is a living, changing, evolutionary instrument that can be retouched, can be adapted, but we already have the reference that will allow us to opt for consolidation now, but the consolidation of employment, you also know that it requires a legal instrument for it, and that legal instrument has to necessarily be the Public Employment Act that will soon be referred to the House for processing. In summary, therefore, the Government is fully implementing the contents of this agreement within the framework of the agreement between 2009 and 2011 with trade union representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u59	Mr Erkoreka, you said that when the legislature is over, the non-law propositions fall. If we did a critical reading, it comes to say that once the legislature is over we forget this Parliament; this Parliament has served nothing. But I'm not going to do that reading either. I can tell you that non-legislative propositions may decline but problems do not decline, problems remain. And the problem of Eustat has been on for several legislatures now. And you're not right: I'm not here to cheer; I'm here to cheer you up. I would change those applause for booing, if you today undertake to activate the negotiation with all the unions in order to reach a real agreement with them and not try to impose conditions that the unions are rejecting and that the staff is rejecting, because if the staff were happy with the work you are doing, neither I would be talking about this issue today nor this staff would be here. I understand that for you this is annoying. It is annoying, first of all, because you said it: there are actions that come from previous legislatures and you have nothing to do with it. And I told her that too. I said, "You are the most responsible, but, of course, here the responsibility lies with those who run the Eustat and those who are in the Vice-Advisory of Public Service." The problem you have is that you are the Public Governance Advisor; not any advisor. That means that the performance criteria applied in his department with regard to public governance are also those that govern the entire Government in some way. And they should rule two. One: comply with the law. Two: efficient use of public funds. Comply with the law. You said, "There were judgments in 2010 that required women workers to be regarded as discontinuous fixed", but there was also an audit in 2010 of the Basque Court of Public Accounts saying that the permanent staffing needs of that agency had to be regularized. And the permanent needs go beyond three to six months' work. You said there's an RPT. This RPT has the rejection of all trade unions. You said you can't make a public consolidation job offer until we have a new law. It is not true: the Basic Status of State Public Employment allows them to run a competition. Yes, he does, because he expressly allows it. But, in addition, here we have to refer to the efficient use of public funds, because the permanent needs of Eustat are much greater than they are proving right now. Right now the government is spending more than €3 million on outsourced surveys. It subcontracts surveys to Eurostat, subcontracts them to the Department of Employment, the Department of Economic Development, the Department of Health, the Department of Education and the Department of the Environment. More than three million euros spent on subcontracts while they have a staff of 100 working for up to three to six months and with arms crossed the rest of the time. That is not an efficient use of public resources and, therefore, we have to denounce it, we have to denounce that it is not a good form of public governance. Outsourcing surveys in the Eustat now costs twice as much to pay to public workers. Women workers, with EUR 2 million of gross salary, are doing 70% of the work, and the remaining 30% are outsourcing, with EUR 2 million and peaks, i.e. it costs exactly twice as much externalisation. And that's what we have, Mr. Erkoreka. I don't mean to throw the staff at him in any way. The staff is already angry, the unions are angry; you are not doing your job of seeking agreements, seeking consensus. And there's a problem, there's a real problem that affects people. When I spoke about expendable material, it is clear that that was the concept that existed in the previous 2010 budgets, but in practice, in reality, right now this Government is not treating these women workers as they deserve after 27 years of work, and I want you to commit yourself to finding a way out of this situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u60	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Becerra, in order not to come out and cheer you up. It's okay, isn't it? Look, he tells me that what he is pursuing from this government is to start a compromise to deal with a negotiation that leads inexorably to an agreement. Of course, for this Parliament can supplant directly at the negotiating table, set the conditions that trade unions put at 100%, assume them at 100%, and we have already radically eliminated collective bargaining in the administration. That would be abdicating, renouncing the obligation of public officials to properly manage public resources. If any claim from any simple and maximalist collective comes to Parliament, we accept it 100% and we turn it into a legal norm, eliminating any negotiation, absolutely from that moment on collective bargaining is enough, we can perfectly dispense with those who deal with these tasks and we subvert the schemes of what has been the employment relationship between the employer and the trade union representation in the public administration or in the public sector, which has had certain schemes. I do not mean with this that Parliament has nothing to say about staff conditions, but Parliament... In short, this is usually done through the definition of the regulatory legal framework of the public service, not through the interference in each of the actions of the tables and the forums in which collective bargaining takes place by setting objectives, setting ratios and establishing exactly what the point of arrival has to be, what the horizon has to be, because if we set the horizon of arrival collective bargaining is too much. Those who already have, with Parliament's approval, a perfectly established arrival position, as they will not be bothered to deal with a serious negotiation, implying a negotiation of mutual divestitures and approximation of positions by definition. "I sit here and you either accept 100% of what I put forward or I don't move, because I come back to putting forward an initiative from Parliament and running." You will understand that it is actually a perverse dynamic, up to a certain point, within what is the scheme of parliamentary regimes. Legitimate, I will not question it, but perverse and subvert the role, commission and work of each institution in this matter. You tell me that the work of a government in relation to this and other matters is twofold. First, to comply with the law and secondly to ensure efficient use of public resources. I absolutely agree with you. It also puts in the fifth point of that agreement that quotes from the year 2016 that the agreements agreed with the trade union formations are complied with. Well, as far as law enforcement is concerned, all the steps the Government has taken are precisely in line with law enforcement. I mean, there are people who don't like that a consolidation OPE necessarily has to go through respect for the principles of equality, merit and capacity, but that's what the law puts in place. Many may not like that a consolidation necessarily has to go through a clarification of the picture, by drawing up an RPT setting out the conditions, of all kinds, under which these functions can be performed. There are people who don't like that, but that's in compliance with the law. All that has to be done. You tell me that a consolidation OPE can be made within the framework of what is laid down in the Basic Statute of Public Employment. Please read carefully the Basic Statute of Public Employment and the temporary terms to which this authorization is limited. Please read with some attention what is the time limit that the law itself, which the Basic Statute of Public Employment itself, establishes for this qualification. There is a need for an express authorization which does not exist today, at this moment. And if we make a call without that clearance, we can find more resources from third parties interested in putting everything up. Therefore, the steps to be taken in the field of public service, with so many collectives and so many expectations, must always be measured and weighted. Then he talks to me about the efficient use of public resources and makes an account that, well, it's one of those that can be done, because, finally, here by adding catch from here and there, "what you spend", "what you could spend" and so on... Look, I can tell you that what was agreed with the unions in 2011, in that agreement to which I referred earlier, immediately after the 101 judgments that we have previously commented, immediately after an agreement is reached that the commitment of the Government, agreed with the unions, is to assume by fixed personnel the performance of the ordinary activity of Eustat, not of the whole statistical activity of Eustat, not of the whole statistical activity of the whole government, not: assume by fixed personnel the performance of the ordinary activity of Eustat. And this, now, with the fixed fixed RPT discontinuous – but fixed, not – is already being done. This, at this moment, the commitment made with the union representation in 2011, this, now with the RPT, is being done: fixed staff preparing the ordinary activity of the Eustat. This is what has been accomplished. Therefore, the law is enforced, efficiency is guaranteed and above all we are complying with the agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u62	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek, time is up. The 12th point in the theme list: "The Internation, made by María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz López de Muninka, member of the Popilative Groups of Economics and Sub-Separations of Europe, a member of agricultural policy for 2021-2027 periods, a member of agriculture (NPE) and a proposal of financing funds for land development and cohesion by budgets. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, Counselor. On 2 May the European Commission presented its proposal for a budget for the period 2021-2027, budgets facing the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Experts estimate that this exit from the UK, which is one of the main net contributors, will leave a gap of between EUR 12 billion and EUR 13 billion per year. A part of this hole will be faced with cuts. And where will it be cut? If 70% of the Community budget is allocated to the common agricultural policy and to the structural funds, it is inevitable that these two headings will suffer from cuts. And this is what Brussels has proposed: a cut of between 5% and 10% for these items, reducing by approximately EUR 25 billion the EUR 400 billion currently allocated to agriculture. In addition, to reduce CAP funds by 5%, the European Commission proposes a 4% cut in the direct payments chapter, adding almost 15% to the reduction of funds for rural development policy. Madam President, just a moment. How long has it taken me?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u64	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u65	Ten? Is that 10? Yeah, yeah. No, it just seemed like it's been a long time. Then there are those who point out that these cuts must be accompanied by inflation throughout the budget period, which is 2% per annum. This would mean a real loss of 17% of the aid. It is true that there are different opinions and criteria, but everyone goes down, everyone points to cuts and goes from 5% to 30%. It is true that there is one year left to seek alliances and negotiate, but we have to think – and we already have a long experience in these negotiations – that the European Commission's strategy is to announce a black horizon, present a grey scenario, arrive at the negotiation and, if we make progress, even if it remains below the current one, it will seem to us a success. That has been the case in all the proposals and we are leaving many hairs in the catera, with the consequent loss to the primary sector. In addition to cuts in direct payments and CAP and rural development, the European Commission wants the green or green component of the CAP to be greater in the future than it is now. He was making progress in his communication on the new CAP in November last year and it seems to be confirmed, according to some reform drafts that have been filtered. The list of environmental requirements is broadened; beneficiaries of direct payments must continue to comply with conditionality, good practice and environmental standards, but the list of conditions is broadened: farmers and farmers will have to meet a total of 13 regulatory requirements and 12 good agri-environmental conditions, of which five are new. All this is very good for those who can pass all this effort on to the final product, but when we lack the transformation, we will hardly be able to pass on this effort and we do not recover the added value. We are left with the most complicated, most expensive and less value-added part. This whole situation is generating widespread rejection in the agricultural and livestock sector: they do not have the accounts, especially in our Autonomous Community, because we do not have in many sub-sectors of transformation. The European Commission intends to cut more than 40 billion for the next six years in the common agricultural policy. At the same time, the objectives of this policy are to produce more and more, with stricter rules and less protection for farmers and livestock farmers. And this is, if not impossible, very complicated. You know, counselor, that on many occasions it is to change money from one place to another with almost zero profitability, when not lost. It is normal for farmers and farmers to feel the pagans of historical misconceptions such as Brexit The CAP has allowed and allows us to enjoy the healthiest, most varied, safest and most quality food in the world. Less CAP means less Europe. Since its creation, the common agricultural policy has been one of the pillars of European construction, but reform after reform is losing weight and this is worrying. This latter proposal means leaving the CAP at 30% of the European budget, when at its origins it meant more than 50%. This proposal also proposes to cut cohesion funds and rural development funds, which are essential to curb the depopulation of rural areas: the maintenance of our peoples, our cultures, our traditions and our territory. We share the points contained in the document Vision for Europe All of this is virtually impossible to deal with with the proposed cut and we want to ask you whether you, as a Government, are committed or commit to incorporating budget lines in order to arrive and do all of this that you have proposed and proposed. It should be remembered that 30% of farmers' income is consolidated through CAP aid. This cut in rural development aid hinders the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and its position vis-à-vis imports from third countries. From the People's Group we see the agricultural and livestock sector of our sad and resigned Autonomous Community. We believe that you have lost or are losing your passion, the essence of this activity. If agricultural and livestock activity is maintained in many critical situations, it is because a percentage of this activity is based on the passion our farmers feel for their activity and their environment. So, we think we have an important job. From the Group of the European People's Party, Commissioner, we would like to express to you our concern about the effects this situation can have on the agricultural and livestock sector of the Basque Autonomous Community. Today the agricultural and livestock sector of the Autonomous Community is in a situation of resignation, as I said, by calculating the time I have left to retire and calculating the minimum investment so that I can reach retirement age without investment burdens. And this happens because they don't see the future. In general, this also has an impact on the low enrolment of young people. And we, Madam Councillor, are asking you and we want to tell you how we are going to deal with this cut-off situation from Euskadi. We know that we have a year to negotiate, that, of course, I have no doubt, the Government of Spain, which is covered by all the communities, will support you so that we get the best percentages for our country, but we will surely lose something. We're almost convinced that something we're going to lose and that's it. As I was saying, modification after modification we're losing capacity. And I think that it is taking the agricultural and livestock sector to a situation of being, for example in Álava, a very powerful sector to be staying in a very relegated situation, and it is likely to be significantly reduced. And that, counselor, worries us. I would like to know what the Government's position is with regard to this new scenario that we have of cuts in the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u66	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Madame Lopez de Ocarariz, I must assure you that I am surprised at this interpelation, knowing that you are the representative of the Poopular Party, and that the Minister of the State, and that he alone makes the relation to the European Union and that he leaves no room for the representatives of the Elegan Autonomist, to ask me what I ought to do. Maybe we should ask the Minister first what he should do. He's responsible for managing Europe directly because he only cares about them. However, I am going to review the work that has been done by the Basque Government in this case in view of the new budgetary scenario that is being prepared in Europe. Let me also remind you that on many occasions we have spoken, asked, demanded that we be allowed to assume a higher level of management, a higher level of work, equipping ourselves with the necessary instruments, not only in the management and implementation of Community agricultural policy, but also in the rest of the structural funds, of investment funds, which we believe must be more regionalized. We are talking about recognition and respect for competences, in this case our Autonomous Community, because we believe that in some way, especially in rural development measures, we could make it much more suitable for our Community. Other communities, which are really different from us, could also do so, and each has its own specificities, but in no case has this been addressed. This request is always in a broken bag. But I would say that, in any case, the government has worked and in this budgetary scenario we have worked to make this request material, but we have also worked to ensure that from our margins we can bring to the European Community, to the European Union, what our prospects are for these new budgets. In this sense, within this new budgetary framework, when we were talking about the future of Europe, about multiannualisation, about that multiannual budget, from the Basque Government, you know, a document was sent – it was sent in 2017, that is, last year – 10 criteria, 10 concrete proposals to draw up this budget. It referred to a series of actions, but it also referred to Community agricultural policy. With regard to this Community agricultural policy, I will quote part of that document. We were talking about more resources for a better Europe, for a cohesion policy to meet the requirements that have been set. Of course, there must be more sufficiency, there must be budgetary sufficiency and it must be implemented effectively. We were talking about territorial cohesion, with the aim of achieving equal opportunities for all citizens of the Union, living, living independently in an urban area or in a rural area, so that each and every one of us living in the European Union has the same opportunities. We endorse the Commission's approach, set out in Communication 1, on the future of food and agriculture in relation to the promotion of a "rural verification" mechanism, and the implementation of the so-called "rural lens" which maximizes the impact of macro-policies, sectoral policies and all European structural and investment funds on the promotion of rural prosperity. That's how it gets picked up. We have also proposed to Brussels a policy that is clearly focused on the territory, which maintains as specific and zonal objectives the consideration of those problems in the rural and fisheries fields in a concrete way. Those areas with problems linked to globalisation, those with problems associated with market liberalization, in particular certain industrial estates, In this approach, we also focus on the greatest consideration, the best consideration of the regions in the analysis and decision-making processes, particularly relevant in this case to rural development policies as you have rightly mentioned. In this regard, we also called for the regionalisation of all these investment funds and the structural funds, so that the regional projection and the area of competence that we have in each region, we can carry them out directly. In our view, we would achieve more effective, more direct, more positive results. In addition, we transferred a very positive assessment of the development of the strategy of intelligent specialization, because it was also a key tool, also in this sector, and you referred, in the deepening of the development of that transformation that requires our agricultural sector, our fisheries sector, and in the deepening of internal coordination processes. In addition to these general criteria, we were talking about specific criteria for the future CAP, and you talked about them. These criteria have also, as always, been agreed with the outside bodies and with the sector concerned, with each and every one of the actors in the sector concerned. We set out the following objectives: the rejuvenation of the rural environment, both of agricultural and non-agricultural assets; the continuity of agricultural holdings throughout the Community under the family farming model; the strengthening of the role of the producer sector throughout the agri-food chain; the improvement of the environment and the fight against climate change; the promotion and commitment decided by nature and healthy food; the preservation of the rural area as a fundamental component of the territory of Euskadi and its landscape; the promotion and diversification of economic activity in rural areas, so as to contribute to the economic development and settlement of the population in these areas; and, finally, the improvement of the level of well-being of the rural population as a substantial factor in social cohesion and territorial cohesion. The Basque Government has done the work it had to do and I would like to point out that the position defended by our department has always been born, as I said, of consensus with the actors involved and will also be so in the future. In any case, in the face of the new reform, I believe that each and every one of the actors involved must do our job, but, I want to insist, especially who exercises responsibility and who exercises that direct connection with the European Union at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u69	Madam Counsellor, you are giving me the impression that we are moving on two different planes: the one you have explained to us here and the real one of agricultural and livestock activity. You move on the political level of institutional relationship, you with the Ministry, Ministry with Brussels, you with Brussels, you, Government... But we're not going to get in there and the farming and livestock sectors are going to say, "We're not going to get in there. Listen, you do what you have to do to make me, farmer and farmer, the one who does the activity, see results." And everything you say you do doesn't come. That's right, that's real. That is to say, today the livestock farm, the sector, the people of the villages, is in a situation, as I said, disappointed, that they see no future, and therefore they do not encourage their children or their descendants, nor will anyone say, "Hey, I can rent the land or the farm to follow this activity." It's just that the short-term future is very dark. You get lost in the activity you develop. "I relate... No, I want to go, I also want to be sitting in the chair next to I don't know who..." See, that's your positioning, but then there's an activity that sees how you're going to lower direct payments, by 4%, that sees how you're going to lower CAP aid, that sees you have more demands when it comes to producing and that your income, 30% of its income is in danger because the CAP aid, as I have said, makes up 30% of the income of the agricultural sector. So, counselor, it seems very good to me that you fight for being in those places that you say you want to be, but we're talking about something else. It is how this is translated into the agricultural and livestock sector and you, as a government, what a commitment you are going to make to these sectors that you are going to see cut back on your aid. Because, look, we've been talking about product transformation for many years. No progress has been made at all. What are we doing in the cereal sector? Nothing. It's trembling. Our product goes to other autonomous communities, to other sites. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, I believe that our duty is to work, but intensively, for the maintenance of agricultural and rural activity, a living rural environment and agricultural activity, with passion, that want to get up, go out to the countryside and do the activity. And for this we have to design instruments compatible with the CAP and its application that incorporate added value, that contribute to the maintenance of agricultural activity and, in addition, to incorporate processing measures into our products, because we make the most complex part, that it has the most cost and that it contributes the least. Therefore, counselor, this we have been repeating for so many years, of course, is not achieved. We're as we were. In addition, we have an obligation to work and maintain the natural environment, which has been shaped by our farmers and livestock farmers who have contributed so much and who want to continue to contribute from their activities. Therefore, Commissioner, I think we have an opportunity, and this is an opportunity, to make a strategy of instruments compatible with the CAP, to revitalize and boost the agricultural and livestock sector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u70	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u71	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I understand, Mrs López de Ocariz, that it is difficult for you to play your role here in this rostrum when those who have to get the CAP cut for the Spanish state to be minimal, because you are a person of your own political party and you are blaming me as the Basque Government that we have to complement something that you already give of course is going to be a very important cut. Well, as the Basque Government, since I cannot sit down to negotiate, as you say I claim – because it is our competence, by the way – as I cannot sit down to negotiate directly, I cannot prevent that cut from being what it is going to be. Now, at that table where we sit with Mrs García Tejerina, which I have no doubt, on the other hand, that she will do everything possible to make that cut the minimum, that is where I can speak and where I will speak as a Government and where I will explain all my reasons. However, responsibility, given that this principle of subsidiarity that we are constantly demanding – not only on the part of the Basque Government, but all the regions, all the autonomous communities, in this case in the Spanish State, that we sit at the sectoral conference – does not come and it is not accepted – which, by the way, the CAP is something that it talks about: the principle of subsidiarity and the role of the regions, which the Spanish State does not want to accept – because, well, its role is difficult. I understand that, but don't ask me to complete the work that the minister must do in principle, because I can't do it. From there, it gives me the feeling that you must be with a part of the agricultural sector, that it is true that you have difficulties, but perhaps you forget a part of the sector that is undergoing a transformation, for good, very interesting, that is producing a food industry at this time that is growing, that is generating employment. You forget all that. That's a reality too. And we also need to talk about it. But here we are talking about the CAP, we are talking about a Community budget, we are talking about that the Basque Government has sent all the conditions that it believes must be carried out, in general for the preparation of the European Union budget, in all its aspects, but also for the development of the CAP. And from there, we will work, as we have been doing so far, but the competitive principle and the subsidiarity principle, which is constantly being denied, is the least important thing for you, but it is the most relevant thing. Why? Because you know perfectly well that in the case of the rest of the autonomous communities, it is the Spanish State that has to supplement these European funds, while in our case it is the Basque Government. It must be because we have a similar relationship and because we have similar competences; however, we are absolutely denied that presence. Then do not put me in the trap or in the difficulty, do not put yourself in the trap and in the difficulty of having to explain why we cannot directly negotiate our CAP, why we cannot do it, since we complement it directly and not complement it by the Spanish State, we do it as the Basque Government. Do not tell me that I have to negotiate something when we are not allowed from the Spanish state. It is the minister who has to do it and who has to fight because the CAP that comes to the Spanish state, which will then distribute gracefully to all communities, who has to fight because those cuts are the minimum possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Ask me, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head of the economics and the sub-govers, to participate in the belief that Hannover is 2018." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u73	Good morning, Mrs. Tapia. A couple of weeks ago, Hannover Messenger was finished and then he had a saucy show to show off in eucalypological company. Apart from that, some euskal companies have been present at the show with the help of the Eukong. My question is, whether you have measured or measured what has been the effect of our presence and the efficiency of our public money.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u74	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u75	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. The answer to your question may be the only one. I'm sure of it as you will, and as everyone who participated in it will.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u77	I'm glad to hear that they're doing or that they've done the evaluation. Indeed, all of us who were there have to make that assessment. In addition, it is important to do so, see how things can be done better, see how to correct mistakes and mistakes that can be made, see how we can better use the resources we have efficiently and see what role we have played each agent. Indeed, the delegation that we were from Parliament will also have to look at what our role was, what our goal was and what we have to do to do better next time. On the fair I'll give you my impression. Although it was a 4.0 fair, industry 4.0, I have the feeling that it was an exclusively technological fair, because you know, I told you in some other speech, that from our group we understand that the 4.0 revolution is more than technology, it is also changes in the ways of working, of people, of organizations, and, obviously, at this fair there was none of that. And I also saw a fair primarily oriented to the German market, with many stalls and many communications exclusively in German, and that is an issue that must be taken into account in view of, say, our presence in the future. But speaking of those two issues, my first impression was that we had to be, that we had to be at that fair, that Euskadi had to be and that Euskadi was right being at that fair, which he did not do, for example, Spain. There will be many ways of being and that is up to you, the people of your department, who are the experts in going to fairs or in representing our country at those fairs, how the stands have to be, how companies have to go, and so on, but the objective of the evaluation does I think it has to be aimed at assessing whether the objectives we sought have been met or not, whether the commercial objectives have been met, on the one hand, whether the institutional objectives have been met, on the other. The commercial objectives, which are to sell the technology of our companies, seek agreements and contracts or establish new commercial relations. And at the institutional level exactly the same. You have developed contacts with different regions, including the one that was the protagonist, Mexico; you will have to assess the outcome of these efforts. But I do have to tell you that if the results were not good, and given that we have to be, I would ask you to take into account two fundamental factors, two criteria of governance, as I said to Mr Erkoreka before. One: be efficient in the use of public money. I mean, if we go there, but we don't get any more contracts or, we have to be, but, let's say, the practical result is not what we expected, let's rationalize our presence there, and that also has to do with Parliament and Parliament's delegation. And the second question is, let us be transparent, let us be transparent in what agreements we have achieved, what contracts we have achieved, what presence, what return it has had for the Basque industry, let us be transparent in that and, moreover, when we establish which companies are going, which companies we support, which companies are accompanying us on that journey, let us be transparent in the selection, let us basically support SMEs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u79	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, Mr. Becerra, as you said at an industrial fair, it's the closest thing to agriculture, that is, we have to plant and water to be able to collect, and I think it's one of the things we're doing every time we attend an event of these characteristics. Euskadi's presence in Hanover Messe was very broad: it was the Basque Country stand with Industry 4.0, but there were also private companies, more than 20, with their own stands. "There was Goierri Valley, with a stand together." Therefore, each of them will make its assessment, but I will do a brief analysis of some of the first results we have evaluated. A few firsts of our presence, especially technological and institutional, which is what was at our stand. Technological, well, were our technological centers presenting diversity of products, diversity of analysis; their first evaluation, waiting for a detail, is very positive in terms of the contacts they made both at technological level and with the companies present there. The Bind 4.0 entrepreneurship accelerator was also present at the Young Tech forum. It has aroused interest in various delegations, it has aroused interest in cooperation and in the presence of new start-ups in the forthcoming calls here in Euskadi, especially in the Mexican states – they were present there, near our stand, you saw them well: New Lion, Querétaro and Colima – and also, even if it seems a little strange, in Arab Emirates. The exhibition and networking agenda of our start-ups there – there were two, Innovae and Irisbond – their first evaluation is also very positive, waiting to see if it translates into some very concrete contract. And we will see if in that third edition that will be launched this year we can attract more start-ups from those places that have shown their greatest interest. As for the attraction of foreign investment, because there were also people from Invest in the Basque Country, a very intense agenda was maintained, which I believe is the most intense of all that have been maintained, with various foreign companies that were interested in participating and investing in Euskadi, with cooperating international institutions to get those investments, with the German Ministry of Industry, with the Trentino Region, with the European Union's Centre for Industrial Cooperation with Japan, with the Bayona Chamber of Commerce also – although it is close, it was there – and with various German chambers of commerce. We have also maintained contact with companies providing investor search support services, with the aim of attracting the maximum number of investments to Euskadi, with four of an international nature, and with funds already interested in investing in those start-ups. At the institutional level, the institutional agenda was especially intense, it did not come to be full day, with the governor of Querétaro to follow up on the agreement signed by the lehendakari in 2014; with the secretary of State of Mexico, who, moreover, from that contact, has already made a visit to Euskadi to meet us in situ; with the state of Nuevo de León, with the commitment to sign an agreement for the Bind 4.0 and for cluster politics. We also maintained contact with the Singapore Advanced Manufacturing Centre, with the aim of establishing collaboration with our technology centres and an exchange of researchers – we already have a researcher already trained in Euskadi located there – and with the new Bavarian minister, on his own stand, where we already established the policy to do a direct and reverse mission, that is, from German companies to Euskadi and from Euskadi to Germany. In addition to a benchmark We will do a more intense evaluation a little later, but so far I think it can be a first assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The fifteenth point on the subject list... I'm sorry, the fourteenth left for another, so we'll go to the fifteenth point: "To ask the question, the members of María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Popula team of the United States, the Plantion, and the Chief of Housing House, the acquisition of lands necessary for the project of the Time Santage." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u81	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Counselor, I'm asking you about the floors for the High Nervous Sanitation infrastructure. On February 28, 2017, the Committee on Budgets told us: "We are going to do our duties. We have set aside an amount of EUR 1.6 million and we are going to make the purchase of the soil by Ura, an essential purchase for the development of the Alto Nervión sanitation project, and it is up to the government to execute of Spain the agreement with the commitments entered into". On 6 November 2017, in the Committee on Budgets 2018, he asked the same question again and said to me: "Since there is no project, you cannot expropriate it. Legally, it's impossible. You don't know." Those things are so affectionate that you tell me, Mr. Counsellor, knowing, Mr. Counsellor, that the project was in allegations and, therefore, there was an approved project. Project that on March 12, 2018 receives the favorable environmental impact statement; project that on April 6, 2018 receives the viability report. On 2 May, a few days ago, the Ministry of the Environment published in the Bulletin of the European Union the previous announcement of the award of the works of the sanitation network of the Upper Nervión and the cleaning plants of Basaurde and Markijana, more than 80 million euros from the Government of Spain, triples the investments that the Basque Government has carried out in Álava in hydraulic infrastructures. Spain's General Budgets for 2019 are likely to welcome an amendment that incorporates the Basque Nationalist group of 13.6 million euros for this infrastructure – and I have no doubt that your party will support Madrid, I hope; also the rest of the groups. And the text of the notice states that the estimated date for the publication of the tender will be 1 August. The works could start in 2019 and the system could go into operation in 2023. On 25 April, following a motion by the Group of the European People's Party at the General Councils in Álava, the Basque Government and Ura were unanimously urged, together with the Foral Diputación de Álava and the municipalities involved, to begin work as soon as possible to obtain the land where the works of the EDAR of Basaurde and Markijana and the main network of collectors will be located. And, counselor, two months with a favourable environmental impact on the table. They also had previous information, they already knew. Have the work begun to obtain the land? What municipalities have donated or made land available to them? How's the relationship with the Álava Foral Diputation? How many files do you have planned to be processed? Of what characteristics? What is your planning to make these lands available to this hydraulic infrastructure?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u82	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u83	Thank you, President. Mrs López de Ocariz, indeed, is good news that, after so many years, the Ministry of the Environment is taking the necessary steps to implement the commitments made in 1994. As you said, the declaration of the environmental impact of sanitation and purification of the high basin of the Nervión River was published in the State Official Gazette on 16 March, and the period of allegations, of public information on the projects that make up it, ended on 9 April. It is not until now that the ministry responds to the allegations collected and incorporated those that are relevant, and final approval of the constructive projects. It is also true that, on 28 April and 2 May, the notice of prior information for the debuggers was published in the Official Journal of the European Union, as well as its contract for services for the control, surveillance and coordination of safety and health. As you know, the objective of these announcements is to reduce the time limits for the redemption of bids, and is expected as the bid date of the work on August 1, 2018, a date that may vary. This is the situation we have today. The ministry is responding to our demands and taking the necessary administrative steps. And as you also know, this is subject to budgets that allow these works to be undertaken. On the part of the department and Ura, in order to be able to fulfill our commitment to make available to the ministry the land necessary to carry out the works, I insist, it is absolutely necessary to have the final projects. Once we are informed of the final approval of these projects, we will, logically and diligently, put ourselves to our work and assure you that the land will be ready and available before the execution of the works is awarded.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u84	Thank you, chief physician. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u85	Counselor, I see you gruesome. When the time comes, the time so long awaited, we are four years away from getting the solution to the Upper Nervous Sanitation! Counselor, more than 30 years behind this infrastructure! The locals almost don't remember the clean Nervous! And it has had to be the Government of Spain that puts the solution to the sanitation of the High Nervion: 80 million euros. A luxury, Mr. Counsellor, you so invoke economic availability. If there is will, there is financial availability. And the Government of Spain has had the will, with the collaboration of the Basque Nationalist Group, to do this work, already. He's had that will. I cannot say the same about you, Mr. Counsellor; I do not see you as enthusiastic as the occasion deserves. Can you tell me how many municipalities have put land at Ura's disposal?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u86	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u87	Mrs López de Ocariz, don't worry, from the Basque Water Agency and from the department we have everything we can to start the process of obtaining the land, which will be managed by expropriation, but in order to start the expropriation procedure, we need the final project. That's right, it's not that I say it, it's that legally. The two scrubbers and the network of collectors affect a total of 375 plots (265 in the territory of Álava and 110 in Bizkaia). Most of them are owned by private owners. The expropriation file we have worked on and ready for the moment when the projects are finally approved. And in order to speed up the process, we will be taken by the Governing Council for a declaration of urgency on expropriation. There are also 36 plots of public ownership owned by the municipalities of Amurrio, Ayala, Llodio, the Council of Saratxo, the Foral Diputación de Álava and the development agency of this territory. Ura has already started discussions with all of them and all have shown their willingness to make their plots available to the Basque Government through partnership agreements or other forms of transfer. To pay for the expropriations, as you know, Ura has entered in this year's budget the amount of 2.5 million euros, which you already know. So, for our part, we have everything prepared for the works to start when the ministry finally approves the projects, gives them budget and awards them. And I'm glad that we're finally on a path that can be solved. It is true that it is an important expropriation, 80 million euros that the ministry will have to pay in order to meet a commitment it took 30 years ago. If we count 80 million out of 30, you do the count and you'll tell me what comes out of the effort.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u88	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Popula team of the Environmental, Plantion, and the Chief of Housing House, near the sanae of Arziniega, and the solution of the purification." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u89	Counselor. Returning to the Framework Agreement for the financing of wind structures in the historical territory of Álava, signed on 11 July 2017 between the Foral Diputación de Álava and Ura-Agencia Basque del Agua, and to this hierarchy carried out of all the infrastructures pending to run in Álava, which do on two horizons 2016-2021 and 2021-2027, and says "respond to the need to obtain with the first investments the most favorable balance, cost-benefit of the public investment, understanding as benefit the correction of the greatest deficiencies in the ecological state and population affected and attended that they make necessary". This agreement again displaces the project of solutions to the sanitation and purification of Artzinega for 10 years (horizontal 2021-2027), despite the fact that the Plenary of the City Council, unanimously of the three groups – Basque Nationalists, Bildu and Popular Group – approved a motion urging Ura – Basque Government – to give a solution to its problem of sanitation, which comes in length, more than 20 years pending. And we're asking you what solution Ura is working on for Artziniega's sanitation. What criteria support the decision to postpone this solution to the 2021-2027 horizon? Is the 2013 project still in force or is another solution being worked out?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, indeed, as you know, the project called "Artziniega Sanitation and Depuration Solution" is in the framework agreement that we signed with the Álava Foral Diputation in July last year, and the implementation horizon is between 2021 and 2027. The inclusion of this work in this temporal horizon is based on two criteria shared between the Basque Government and the Foral Diputación de Álava, one of priorities and the other of resource disposition. It is true, and I understand and understand that all the needs of citizenship are important, but the truth is that they cannot all be met at once. Therefore, the framework agreement agreed on the actions to be undertaken before – such as the waste water treatment plants of Agurain or Oion – and other projects – including Artziniega – were planned for the following period. I have to remind you again that supply and sanitation is not a competence of the Basque Government or of Ura, it is a direct competence of the local administrations, but the fact is that from Ura we are intervening on many occasions in these matters basically with the aim of improving the quality of water in general in Basquedi, both drinking water and water supply, water from rivers and general water bodies. Returning to your question, other basic criteria to seek the best debugging solution to ensure the good condition of our rivers and springs and apply principles of cost recovery of investments through service rates. And this leads us to defend the general criterion set out in the current hydrological plan and to opt for a centralized treatment of urban discharges against autonomous solutions. It is an approach that Ura has with this project and with others. And this involves enhancing solutions at the district level of sanitation through solutions at the local level, and this is due to pure efficiency and efficiency.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u92	Thank you, chief physician. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u93	Counselor, always repeats to me the same, "I am not competent." You have committed yourself, your department is committed and I think that is clear and you have signed it in various documents, so let's resolve the issue, you are responsible for carrying out the works you have signed in an agreement. No more. Artzinega – approximately 1,900 inhabitants – is paying the City Hall an annual pour fee of approximately EUR 18,000. When you speak of a more favourable balance sheet, the cost-benefit of public investment, what are you talking about? Because for the City Council the cost is clear, the cost year after year is clear, the cost of not performing that outstanding work for more than 20 years. I understand for benefit the correction of the deficiencies of the ecological state and do they take into account in this case what is the ecological situation of the river Artziniega? Do you take into account the cost, as I said, for the City Council of the non-implementation of the infrastructure? City Hall money, it's also public money, like yours, and also the City Hall has multiple economic needs, but it can't say "not paid", it has to pay the fee. Counselor, if you have an opportunity, please review the minutes of the Artziniega City Council in recent years. I think it is full after full where this issue comes out, because they also have a lack of knowledge since 2013 about what is the reality of their project, if anyone is looking at them. Is anyone looking at you, is anyone worrying about the situation of these gentlemen? The fact is that ignorance is really striking: neither the mayor nor the spokesmen of the groups, no one has knowledge or at least there does not move. Really, as I say, if you have the opportunity to read the minutes, the helplessness you see is wide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u95	Mrs. López de Ocariz, did I tell you we're not going to do it? I don't think so, do I? The only thing I have said to you is that being not competent, we have assumed the execution of this and other works in aid of municipalities or joint ventures, as we do on other occasions, within the capacity we can have. We're talking about a sanitation solution. There are two possible solutions: an autonomous solution; another connecting by collectors with the Güeñes depurator. From the point of view of the solution, what is the one we understand from Ura that is best? Connection with collectors with Güeñes. But the final draft will have to be drafted and it will also have to be done by developing the convention, as far as possible, in accordance with the Foral de Álava, which for this reason we have signed that framework convention in order to be able to develop the infrastructures contained in it. And logically you tell me, "It's that this goes to horizon 21-27." Yes, of course it goes to 21-27, because we are ordering the commitments that come from history, which have led to breach by Ura, and you, what do you want? What are we going to do again to set up a plan that will cause us to fail again so that you come to this rostrum to say Ura does not meet your commitments? We have to do this on a planned basis, taking into account the real investment capacities that we can have for the future. Because, of course, you do some approaches that go against that planning adopted with the Álava Provincial Council and you want the supply of Upper Bayas to be included in the first period and you want the sanitation of Artziniega to be included in the first period. So, of the 50 million we have up to the 27th, you want 42 to be included in the first period up to the 21st, and 8 for the second. That's not serious, Mrs. López de Ocariz. It's not serious.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u96	Thank you, chief physician. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interfection, the parliamentary members of the Ubeka Aranz and the EH Collector of the Union, made to the head of the Board of Education, in the course of Childing Schools, concerning the setting up of a family of less than 18,000. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u97	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs Harper, what we're trying to find out today is very simple. We want to know if you're going to obey the law enforcement order and when you're going to keep it. Or, in other words, in the next school, in September, families, below the income of 18,000 Euro, will be free? That's what we're trying to solve today. Besides, it's just this day that the Child School ends in the divisional nomination and, for the record, Mrs. Uriart, it's been a pleasure for the first time that Childing Schools had a decent campaign on the media. For the first time. We've asked several times, and finally, well, very slowly, it looks like we're moving forward. So far there was something in the press, but this time on the radio, in the press, it was a shame we didn't get to TV. Let's see if we can get on TV the next time we get on the other networks. Well, on the previous thread, we've had an open appointment from the 30th of April to today, and under the conditions we haven't seen what the Congressor demanded from the Board of Education. And, Mrs. Greart, what we want to know is what that means. Is it you, or this government, that have no will to obey what the legislative commands? Also, I ask you, because this government, the party that supports it, voted for it, and agreed that, when for the first time we had brought it to the discussion, we had voted against the Board of Education. We argued in February about this subject and he voted against the Board of Education, but this time, in the monographics on the family, EAJ protected him and went on. Then we want to assume that there is really political will to advance this proposal. That's what we want to think. That's why we expect clear answers today. If there's a political will, it's easy to answer, and we don't want to hear any excuses today. Or maybe we're wrong, it's not that political will, and March 21 was a sham, so that people would think you're playing the real bet on the commercial family policy. Maybe that's it. We don't know. Or what is the meaning of not receiving in the name that really is about to end? You're going to pay these families with retroactiveness, because you haven't had time since March to apply the measure? But, in truth, this has no greater meaning, because we have so often seen it from one day to another, to change the lines of money, to increase the finances, or to open the subsidies as we have seen it recently in the company of so many children's schools, not children's schools to share, but other children's schools, but I don't want to compare them to-day, Mrs. Uriarte Nikola. There has been a great contribution to society, especially to small nations and to the country, which the school of children has made to society. And the contribution that can be made may still be greater, if it adapts itself to new times and applies to its functions, and at the present moment we have need of it in return to the great centres. But the question is: What is the design of this government of Childage to the Parthian school? What's his purpose? That's what we don't have very clear. In recent times, Mr. Urkullu campaigned on the radio a magnificent family plan, one after the other we listened to the cognacs, and we asked ourselves: Does Mr. Urkullu really want to make a difference in family politics? And if the answer be yes, why does it not invest in the instruments we already have, instead of creating new instruments? For we already have an instrument, very potent: Children's schools are more common. First of all, the education and maintenance of children; secondly, a very useful instrument for cooperation, and thirdly, which can perform an important function in social excitement and in social speculation, the social social community, which can be the beginning, the social differences, and this equal function, which can be detected from the beginning. But do you really think that can be done with the quaots that are now in power? No, you can't. Familiars have a hard time getting access to Childer Schools to compartmentalize. Let's just see what quotas are. It is true: at the moment of EH Collectation, these quotas were established according to the rent of families, and some of them were set up, but they did not go deep in the other progressiveity, and did not put in other necessary benefits, because it was not necessary to make an investment. But, perhaps, because you don't know what tramoes and prices are, there are three tragedies in common, yes? The first tramo is until 10,000, eight hours is a quota 115 euros and five hours in 91 euros; 15,000, eight-hour quotas 180 euros and five-hour quotas 140 euros, and, third tramoa, 15,000, eight hours after 208 and five hours, a payment must be made at the time of not being signed. It is plain, therefore, that no one can bear his son or daughter to share Childer Schools. He can't and is often more expensive than a private network for child school in public nets. Is that the bet that this government makes for the structure of a family policy? And we don't mean that every family should teach their children from minor ages. We don't mean that, but we think that public institutions, the public system, have to give the opportunity for that, and the public system, at the moment, has no guarantee of it. And what happens to those families in the weakest condition, the most vulnerable? What's going on? Do they have a chance? Do they have freedom? Do they have rights? And not only can you guarantee that choice with people who want to be children... Yes, there is a condition, a right, a freedom, a choice to have children now? We think that the choice, the right, and the liberty of not having children, ought to be granted; but we also think that the possibility of having children, and of securing both right and freedom, must not? And we think that Child Schools are one of the instruments in this direction; and that their whole potential is not yet developed, and that it is an instrument which has been cut off. Of course, it's the instrument that has potentiality for us because we really believe in cohesion and inclusium. Of course, if we don't believe in cohesion and inclusium and that social record, we're even arguing about it today. And we think that it is essential for that purpose that it is a key and a key. But we know that motion can't be established from one day to another, but it can't be continuously prolonged, because children's school has the age and its maturity. That's why we made this plan as our first move. From the year 2014, we've been trying to develop this potential, and to make a real move in this way, and therefore, to-day, Mrs. Uriart, we hope to have a clear and accurate answer on your part: One, you will obey the law, and two, when will you observe this commandment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u99	Mr. President of the legislature, members of the legislature: Mrs. Ubera, last January 18th, Presidents of Araba, Bazai, Gipuzian, and Presidents of the Edels, Eudels of the Family, and the Basque Testament for Child. This treaty is the 11th of the 2020 Euskawats by our government. He answers to his commitment to legislation, because amongst the ends of the country they are determined to have more support for the increase of the rate, and for those who have children. In this respect the program of the Government shows the following: "He claims to develop a social and democratic policy, which, like another part of the society of Europe, will gradually increase in proportion as it is necessary to promote the social and democratic character of society. "Observations given to the ancients, especially to the masters who live in a state of dependence, and to give aid to families and children, are two fundamental principles for the Basque Social Police." Considering the importance of this treaty in the government, there are five divisions of men who are involved in the attainment of the engagements which have been made there, and the Department of Employgue and Polic society is the co-ordination and leader of the co-ordinate. A subject, the policy of the family, and its demographic challenge, affects this Chamber, as it was revealed at the meeting of March 21st, 2018, and shows that it was the degree of agreement and the number of approved resolutions. The whole deal is in agreement with the Agenda of 2030 of the sustainable development. He was approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations, in 2015, and in it, as far as education is concerned, there are some fundamental points of view, among others, of securing the inclusive and direct education of all men, of the quality of quality and permanent opportunities of learning. These works have already been acquired in our government program as a fundamental element of promotement to the equality of choice and democratic community of life. The following actions of this agreement ought to be distinguished by the improvement of educational services, and by the preparations for the preservation of children, in the scope of the common compact. At the same time, on the other hand, this treaty is based on the compensation of the cost which causes child-pobation and education, the consideration of the capacity of economic preparations, and consequently the measures which are adapted to delay and universalization. This treaty insists on the need of strengthening social fabric, in a strong way for the family to integrate into common structures, and for the assistance of such common structures as appear in daily life. In this sense and linked to this issue that you bring to this House today, within the basic lines of action already identified in the pact is the following: to encourage all children to receive accessible, affordable and quality childcare services. Different international bodies, such as the OECD, have highlighted the positive impact that quality child care has on the prospects for the future development of children. It has also been shown that girls and boys accessing early childhood education subsequently achieve better educational outcomes. Therefore, as previously noted, policies for investing in children and supporting families increasingly place emphasis on early care and the development of accessible, affordable and quality child care services. In this context, we believe that the access of children to quality and affordable child education centres must be part of a truly effective policy for equal opportunities, bearing in mind that the basics of learning, as well as the main origin of inequalities, go back to the preschool period. This department, in its government programme, is committed to ensuring equality in access to education, through the promotion of an educational system that helps overcome socio-economic obstacles, ensuring cohesion. To this end, with the aim of ensuring the universality of the system, promoting cohesion and, to this end, removing all socio-economic obstacles that could exist for the sake of quality education on an equal footing and in a fair and equitable manner, the measures that are being collected and implemented, such as the strengthening of the non-university scholarship programme, as I have highlighted in my first intervention at this plenary session, the development of models for the management of complementary services, mainly transport services and school eateries, on the basis of collaboration with the actors involved; or the strengthening of family and work reconciliation measures, such as through the established system and subsidies to the registration of haur-eskolas It was precisely the more childish school that was born to lead a major mission: that they should keep watch and education of quality to the children under whom child schools are divided for two years. The object of the child school is to provide a full educational service addressed to children between 0 and 2 years old, such as social help, especially work and family life. A service for education and support. We have four main goals to complete the mission. The first is to promote children's education to their families in concert. All this depends on physical well-being and the development of capacities, on equality and respect. Secondly, by the care and attention of children below two years, offer support to families in order to enable compatibility between family and work life. Third, to encourage education to overcome differences in the school unit. To have the opportunity to develop personality completely, by strengthening values, attitudes, and all knowledge, to integrate them into society in a responsible way, without making any distinction about sex. And lastly, to promote children's eloquence proper conditions, considering the two official languages of Euskal Autonomia Erdigo, in order that the education of labour and service of children may be preserved and encouraged. Generally, giving a quality education to the needs of children and society. Although known, I should like to give two or three general facts: Of the 251 townships of Esquimia Esquimia, 178 townships are members of Partucergo, which are provided by 95% of the Euscal Autonomia Erdi. 2003. in the year 27 children's school and day service is given in 236 children's schools with 8500 squares. Shutting down my 2014 license plate plate, 2011. he compares himself to what he had been in the year, with 6,000 children of average age signed up. At this point, we cannot forget the advance we have made on this road in our community: Euskadin, among the two-year-olds, are already educated 92.9. That percentage in the state is 55%. On the other hand, some actions are carried forward by fixed ends; To answer the needs of society, to improve the course of the centers, to work together with families, to encourage professional workers' professional development, to ensure security and health, and to promote the use of the support and to promote equality. All this shows how important we are to give children's families and service. At this point, the role of Haurreskolak and his offer are fundamental to the fulfilment of this commitment. In addition, we must continue to reorient educational policies and deepen the construction of an inclusive and co-educating school system, capable of ensuring equity and compensating for the difficulties faced by students who are socially and economically disadvantaged. Undoubtedly, we agree that, in order to better meet the family and demographic policy challenges of the Pact for the Family and Children, the resolutions of this House at the session held on 21 March 2018, in full monographic format, complementary measures are needed, such as the quota subsidy for low-income families, but addressed from an integral perspective. In this regard, and in compliance with the agreement reached at that meeting, the measures have been reflected in IV. Inter-agency Family Support Plan to be adopted in May.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u101	First, I wish to express my support and solidarity to the representatives of the Child Schools of LAB, which have come to see this point to us today. To get out of a cartel, a fellow has been expelled, when they have not made any noise, inconvenience, and disturbance. We think, Your Honor, that's unacceptable and that we have to fix it. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u102	Mrs. Ubera, do you want to continue or not? And I'll tell you that the signs are forbidden in this Parliament. Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u103	You haven't answered me, you haven't answered me whether you will or not, and only today I have asked you for a clear answer and precise answer. And you don't even have the will to protect your governments and make a suggestion we've agreed to your government? Don't you have any will? See what sort of explanation you have given me, not to give me a clear answer: You explained to me that the pact for Familians, the agenda, the government ceremony, and that we're talking about it, is not even in a document of them, nor has it been that way. Just words, words: Incluction, diversity of choice, universality... You're emptying the termum's importance. You're emptying it because you don't. These terms are at last nothing if the measures are not applied. We need the measures here, the answers to give meaning to the inculation, to give meaning to the equality of possibilities, to give meaning to universality and to make a real family policy. That's what we need, not words, not campaigns, not propaganda. It's the size we need. Here, unfortunately, what we've been seeing in the past few years is that you've had other plans for the child school. That's all you need to see in the budget. It's one of the biggest forgotten ones, you guys've had a little bit of a breakthrough for your child school. Just to see what happened in the budget: We don't even have 2012 budgets. How much did you plan on it? What investment did you make? Nothing. Empty. You've only raised a little this time, (0.7), but you haven't even reached a 2012 investment level. All you have to do is see what offers you've made: The restrictions, the restrictions, the restrictions, the constant. Those other measures you've mentioned... Look, you mentioned the scholarships. Bak, not children's lessons in common, for the sake of the school-maker, and the proposition you announced today was brought by EH Collect. EH Collect has brought him to this house again and again, and we finally got him to accept you. You're not capable of making proposals for action. And at least you're moving right now. Even EH Collect brought it. How did you apply it? If you know what you did to apply the capitations? Take off child school scholarships! Baby school doesn't have any scholarships! You've got the form program, and you've got to take it off! Constraints have been constant in common with child schools: in investment, in personal, during watching, in form programs... And then what about the family policy? What difference of choice? What kind of inclusion? What universality? You mentioned that every person needs universal birth of quality. Which one? What are you talking about? From 2 years? What about 0-2 years old? Children's schools are a bit different from the public net we've got to pay attention to 0-2 (heating, care, consumption, inclusion, opportunity difference), and you're leaving the families out of them. You are obstructing the gateway, and it is time for you to obey the command which this parliament has given you. And what we ask of you alone is to keep it, and not to make it a new agreement, to enter into the treaty, and now to accept the treaty. The treaty is approved, Urkullu is campaigning. Now it is time for those families of the legislature to comply with what has been said, for the good of succeeding generations, and especially for the equality, cohesion, and incluation which this society requires. We need measures, not words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u105	Mrs. Ubera, in answer to your question, the Board of Education, in the meeting of February 13th, 2018, has approved the other proposal of the 9/2018 Laws, in order to confess and encourage the strategic character of the Parthians according to the following text: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque government to continue to promote an education system that helps overcome socio-economic obstacles, ensuring cohesion. To this end, reconciliation measures will continue to be strengthened through the established system and the registration bonuses of the Haurreskolak consortium, depending on the income of families. "Also to continue to promote the educational supply of the first cycle of Child Education, taking into account the actual demand existing today and taking care of the adequacy of the haur-eskolak "And also to guarantee the public resources that will enable us to make further progress in the quality and equity of our educational system." Measures. For example, the expansion of the supply, which will in any case be eight hours for all families included in the haur-eskolas rural area, a measure which has been agreed at the trade union table. Or this year, in fulfilling the mandate of this House, regarding the recognition and promotion of the strategic nature of the Haurreskolak consortium and its work, unlike previous courses, as you mentioned, a campaign has been carried out to promote the Haurreskolak enrolment schedule. A specific and own campaign. From 30 April to 11 May, today, the deadline for the submission of applications and the admission of children is open. The provisional lists will be published on 15 June and, after a period of claims and remedies, and withdrawal, the registration schedule will end on 12 July with the publication of the final lists. But before we open this process, the Board of Partertz Committee makes several orders, starting at work two or three months ago. Among these works, children's schools are allowed a policy to manage the quotas per month. Having accepted this, he must prepare the information to be sent to the children's barracks and all the documentation. As I said on the first round, in this year, "EstMork" has begun a monographic discussion about the family policy and the demographic challenge in March 2018. It says, "The US US US wants to present it to the Euko MU, before this meeting is over, to assist the family of the Families in 4th. Organizational Plan, received: the strategic line and the precise measurements to be developed, the execution program and the previewed income, as well as the plan in the middle of the force, and the system evaluated at the end in order to determine the level of filling of each measure. "The American law calls for fun, so that Child Schools will be the entrance to the families with incomes less than 18,000 dollars." Other than that. The resolutions I have just mentioned are not isolated measures, but are part of a set of 95 resolutions adopted in the above-mentioned debate and which, because of their importance and importance, must be addressed with an integral approach and an interdepartmental and inter-institutional vision, for proper action and coordination. For this reason these measures, as well as all others, are working in order to assist the family. They are receiving it at this moment on the international plan, and it may be foreseen that they will accept it this month during May. In this plan, there will be also the above consideration of the measures suggested in it for 2018 and 2019. At the same time, with the plan, the budget's prediction must be made to develop these measures. At this moment, the USM's budget is approved, and the budget's deliberation and prediction of the budget is complete. In order to complete what has been decided, as in the plan, the Baby School will have to do with it, besides the foresight of the budget, a thorough examination. As I have said, for the aid of Familias, IV. As it will be in the organizational plan, in the period of 2018 and 2019, this innovation will be carried out according to the necessary procedure and the decisions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 18th point in the subject list: "You ask the question of Martíz together of the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief physician of Education, about Beasain's apprenticeship." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u107	Good morning. Thank you. Mrs. Chief: According to the data of the Board of Education, in the private school of Besain, 2017-2018. In the study of Child Education, 93 students have been labeled. In that cycle of Beasain three classes had been concluded. I mean: There are 75 squares available. According to the 21/2009 Decree, the maximum ratio in this cycle is 25. I mean, this year, 93 students are registered and 75 squares are available. I mean, 18 students go beyond the ratio of ratio. Was it then that the requests which at the time exceeded the established ratio as dictated by the decree had been wiped out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u108	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u109	Mahaiburu andrea. Mr Martínez, as you have mentioned in justification, at the 21/2009 Decree of February 3rd, according to this regulation, that in the first cycle of Child Education the ratio is 18 for the rooms of the children of the two years, and, as far as the rooms of the three years are concerned, the twenty-five. In the 2017-2018 school school school school school, the Beasain has two classes in the first school cycle (given classes of children of two years of education, 1418 classes per class), and allow four classes in the second cycle of Child Education (three, four, four, and five), for a 100-year-old (five class), although only three-year-olds of education. So it's important to separate concepts between the allowed classes and the scheduled classrooms, and agree with the rules of force mentioned. During the registration period of the course 2017-2018, the regulations in force, in fact, were Decree 35/2008, of admission. This decree is developed through the Order of 2 December 2016, which establishes the common timetable for the submission of applications and deadlines for admission and approves the instructions for the admission of students for the academic year 2017-2018. As referred to in Article 2: "Continuance of studies at different levels and stages at the same centre shall be automatically guaranteed and therefore shall not require application for admission, except in the case of access to a two-year classroom. "The continuity of the two-year student in three-year classrooms in private concerted schools shall be guaranteed provided that they participate in this admission process and that the total number of students enrolled does not exceed the maximum number of places that may be admitted by the three-year classrooms authorized in that center at the beginning of the admission process regulated by this order." That is to say, in response to your question, in Beasain ikastola in the course of 2016-2017 his two authorized two-year classrooms were completed and, on the basis of the regulations in force that I have just mentioned, he was able to keep all the students in the step to three years without needing to cheat because he had the authorization for an additional classroom, even if this one was not agreed. No license plate was available above the ratio. The fact is, they divided into two rooms of three years inside the four total allowed classrooms.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u111	Mrs. Greart, the data we have is from the start, the data that your department sent us, and the question we asked based on it. And the state of the apprenticeship of Beasain is not a single state, and, seeing the data we have at this moment, we do not sometimes know what the regulation is, and the same thing in January, when the new decree presented itself. Decree 1/2018 of 9 January, which was also read by surprise in the Education Commission, a decree for us and for us important enough to at least be debated, because we are not only talking about an ordinary government decree, but we are talking about the enrolment decree. The school is directly or indirectly affected by our personal development and human development in manners and kinds of relationship. And in our context, the importance of this is multiplied because our education system is divided into two equal networks-that is to say, a public and private network under compact. And therefore we asked the written question, and asked this question, because the case of the scholar of Beasain is merely an example, and our data is an example that transcends the law of the student, and we wish to know what decree, and what legal judgment it is founded on. Esaten dugulako, eta 2016ko ordinaten esaten duen bezala, "When for a certain level and linguistic model the number of applications is greater than the number of places, the body in charge must proceed to the smoothing of applications in accordance with the rules set out in Decree 35/2008". So, what we wanted to know and what we asked you again is whether that situation has occurred in the Ikastola of Beasain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u112	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u113	Mr Martínez, I would like to complete the information transferred in my first speech, to see if it is clarified a little more, giving details of the new admission decree which replaces the already repealed of 2008. I mean, Beasain's situation was made with 2008, but now we have a new decree. Then, the process of admission of 2018 in progress is governed by the new decree of admission, developed by the order of January 15, following the operation transferred before. That is to say, similarly, Article 2 of the Law provides that "the continuity of the two-year student in three-year classrooms in private concerted schools shall be guaranteed provided that he participates in this admission process and that the total number of students enrolled does not exceed the maximum number of places that the three-year classrooms planned (in this case) by the department responsible for education in that school for the corresponding course may be admitted". The change of three-year classrooms allowed to three years planned is very important, it is directly aimed at avoiding this type of action, such as that produced in Beasain. As a result of this change, in the process of admission of the course, in 2018-2019, Beasain ikastola has barred both in two years and in three, adjusting the list of admissions to the 25 in all cases.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interpology, the parliamentary members of the Basque Groups of Carmelus Barrius Barroja, made for Cultura and the Chief of Political Language, the support of books, books, books, and readings and readings. "About the projects of the Dreams." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u115	Thank you, President. Good morning to all, and to all, and counselors, counselor. The subject of interpellation, reading and books. Reading, and what carries around, is perhaps the most powerful cultural activity, which permeates all the orders of life, perhaps of people. That is, cultural, of course, leisure, but also education without any kind of doubt, professional, personal development, without any kind of doubt. And that is why this initiative is intermingling with some initiative that we have been able to analyse and understand. It is an initiative of the future, a key element of cultural policy that, as I said before, permeates all the others. And it is that the Chamber of the Book of Euskadi, which groups bookstores, distributors, publishers, graphic arts companies specialized in the production of books, not many months ago drew up a Basque plan, what it called the Basque Plan for the Promotion of the Book and Reading. In addition, in this sense, and that is why we collected this contribution, because the Basque plan itself to promote reading and bookmaking and bookstores, made it available to the Basque society. And they also said that "we hope that in part or in full the public administrations of our Autonomous Community" (the administrations as a whole; the questioner is you, but, well, there are also other administrations possibly questioned in relation to the ability they have to promote book and reading) can put in place in relation to the proposals of the same plan. The document is a very interesting document, it is not a very long document, but it is a very interesting document, which as you will know, certainly and also a long time ago, because it consists of some situation data of the sector that includes – I repeat: libraries, distributors, publishers, graphic arts companies, producers of books...–. And, in that sense, it also referred to support measures, or suggestions, or recommendations, initiatives, which is good to study and analyse and know, of course, why this inquiry, what are those steps or the connection that the Government and Administration, in this case its Department of Culture, makes with those proposals and with that analysis that the Chamber of the Book makes in Basquedi. We are talking about reading habits and their promotion, the reading and buying of books, the book trade and everything that reading leads around it, logically, in different formats and new expressions, and also through new technologies and also cultural changes in that sense. Well, that's the fundamental element, which this plan also mentions. There are other plans, there are other initiatives, there are other actions. Recently we have known, also by the Education Administration, in this case, the 2018 Euskadi Reader Plan. Well, one last action in the field of the educational centre, the reading competence of the student and the hobby of reading. Well, a part of the whole, of the habit and performance that we are talking about can perfectly be this reading plan of the educational centre, of the student and of the connection with reading, but, logically, what the Chamber of the Book refers to and its plan of promoting the book and reading is much greater. We have also known, and it is good to see how there has been the last production of questions in relation to the book sector, the report precisely from the Book and Reading Observatory last week or 15 days or 20 days ago, the report on the book sector in Spain of 2018, which produced the Book and Reading Observatory, a tool that is also part of the Plan for the Promotion of Reading 2017-2020. We also knew at the time, we were also able to analyse them in this House, other initiatives, such as that of Councilwoman Urgell, the strategy of reading there for 2011, or the presentation a few years ago also, by her predecessor, of the Liburutegia programme, which is there and which, of course, have to complement a whole series of efforts that surely need to be made. We want to identify the needs of that request for support from booksellers and publishers. In other words, in the Basque Plan for Reading and the Book, publishers, booksellers, book and material producers around the book talk about the need for support measures within the world of book and reading. They talked about a lot of issues. On the one hand, also tax measures, that corresponds to other areas, which of course there is no doubt, or security measures, in relation to the fight against piracy, which also correspond to other areas and to other administrations, there is no doubt, and here the Department of Culture is not only being questioned, but the Department of Education, the Department of Industry, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Security is being questioned about the book, the reading, the Department of Marketing, the Department of Culture, the Department of Education, the Department of Industry, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Security – when we talk about these issues that have to do with the piracy–..., but there are support measures that logically call and appeal to the General Administration in its functions of direct acting capacity or in its functions of coordination in relation to what they can do in support. And logically, apart from those who question in the educational field, there are and we have seen that there are new tools: the strategic lines of development – that is what the plan says, I do not say, the Plan of the Euskadi Book Chamber –, strategic lines of development of public libraries with more efficiency – that is one thing that is coming –; maps of public libraries and public reading; strengthening the central services that support different library networks; establishing agreements and cooperation platforms; policy of library facilities, which speak, in some cases, of better or greater dignity; – logically, many are the questioned, but in this sense, as well as the Basque Government – acquisition of books in libraries through the library network, as in other autonomous communities. Public libraries must expand services, create coordination systems – this is the work of the Basque Government –, strengthen the educational and training profile within libraries, and then another series of measures to support production and marketing. It considered it necessary to increase the amount of aid for translation; to extend the appropriations for production aid by extending it to cover other editorial lines which are not merely literary; measures to encourage investment in the sector; systematic purchase of licences for all digital books produced in Euskadi for eLiburutegia; promotion of new interactive digital formats; aid for the internalisation of publishers; subsidised credit lines to undertake new editorial projects; specific measures for the book in Basque; maintenance of the Study of the Edition in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and of the Study of the Edition in Basque, financed by the Department of Culture, Linguistic Policy, with the collaboration of the Gremio de Editores, initiated in 1995, allowing annual information on the situation and evolution of the edition in these fields. That is, lines of action, lines of maintenance and lines of empowerment and creation. "A substantial part of a Basque Book and Reading Development Plan must be devoted to removing obstacles and reducing transaction costs that increase or hinder readers' access to books, for which it is necessary to create more competitive businesses and marketing channels." That is to say, there are very interesting elements of analysis and, of course, they deserve that reflection that we demand and call on the Government. Also in this series of initiatives and measures, they speak, specifically, of the support for the necessary measures for the support of the libraries, "Good libraries, of sufficient magnitude, with a cultural vocation (says the plan), are in need of urgent support measures that can guarantee their sustainability for the future". They speak of examples from other countries in which we can look, in particular from France, but, well, in any case, we have to make a plan to support bookstores where the value of the book and bookstore is prestigious, and of the bookstore, in which they collect institutional measures to support bookstores. In other words, credit plan, measures to support the rental policy to enable openings, possibility of subsidies, help at the point of sale in financing the renovation of the facilities, forms of collaboration with the institutions. That is to say, Mr Zupiria, a number of issues which are part of a plan approved and organised by the House of Books in Euskadi, and in this regard we ask your opinion and what issues you will be doing in relation to the book and reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u116	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u117	Mrs. President, Congressman, fellow governmentman, good morning to all of you. And good morning, Mr. Barrio. Thank you for bringing this issue of such interest to this House for your debate. I say thank you because I share your interest, I share your concern, that I think it is that of many people interested in culture, and I appreciate in its fair value, that I think it is great, the contribution of the Euskadi Book Chamber with its Basque Book and Reading Development Plan. We are immersed in a process of change of unsuspected dimensions. They are changes as a result of a new society and a new revolution, this time digital, which some call "digital tsunami". We are all aware of the effect and consequences of this on many of our daily activities. Besides, we're not just spectators. Most of the world's population, including all members of this House, teachers, creators, citizens, family leaders, are witnessing, and at the same time protagonists, one of the most profound changes that are taking place in our consumption habits in all areas of our lives. This is directly affecting cultural consumption and the different ways in which we consume culture. You ask me a round question, and I also want to answer you straight and straight. The Basque Government as a whole, but especially through the Departments of Culture and Education, has among its main purposes the promotion of reading. To this end we agree with the Chamber of the Book, we agree with the other institutions of the country – the parliaments, the municipalities... – but we also agree with those responsible for the autonomous communities of the Spanish State and with those responsible for European culture and education, because we are facing a global change and it is up to us all to be attentive and to analyse what measures can be taken to adapt to these changes. Priorities must also be set, and ours is very clear. The priority is the promotion of reading, beyond the fact that this reading takes place in one medium or another. To this end, it is clear that, in addition to promoting reading habits, we must firmly maintain the commitment to content creation, as well as the defence of the intellectual property rights of creators and authors and of support for the publishing sector. This from reading is a topic that is going to give for a long time, and when it comes to making its analysis it is convenient for institutional and political leaders to keep in mind the set of initiatives and active policies that are implemented from all different institutional levels and that affect all the links in the production chain – others prefer to call it the "system" or the "book ecosystem". In this case, I believe that as a starting point, as the report of the Book Chamber has done, I believe that we should also start by analysing the data we have at our disposal. It's data that's a result of surveys, but it's what we have. I think they are valid, although often the opinions that citizens bring to us when they do these surveys are not necessarily reflected in the reality of our consumption habits and our cultural habits. As a starting point, according to the latest studies of the Basque Sociometer, we could lay down as a basis that the number of people he claims to like to read has grown in recent years: from 52 to 57% (5 points). However, the percentage of people reading every day or almost every day has dropped by 13 points. Almost half of the population says they read almost every day and there are 18% of the population that they never or almost never read. The most cited reasons for this absence of the world of reading are lack of habit or lack of interest. The data reveal that a significant change is taking place with respect to reading media. Thus, the percentage of people reading paper texts has dropped from 82 to 48 (34 points). And in these 14 years the number of people who read in Basque has almost doubled and the number of people who read in English has grown exponentially. There are 9% who say they collect from a library those books or texts they want to read, and there are many others who say they have downloaded them for free from the internet. I think it is also interesting to mix data on consumption and age, also those that have to do with education levels, and we will see that the higher the level of education, the greater the hobby of reading and, curiously, the greater the use of the internet, the greater that taste of reading. The percentage of young people between the ages of 18 and 29 who say they do not read justifies in a very high percentage their low dedication to reading because they do not like or are not interested, a phrase that is very common among young people and Basque girls. This, in a general context, which I believe is much worse than the one I have described to you, in a general context in which, if textbooks are excluded and we analyze the data relating to the other type of texts, we will see that the Basque Country and Castile-Leon are in the leading positions, together with Navarra and Madrid. If we incorporate the ingredient in the text books, photography changes color completely and the communities of Castile-Leon and the Basque Autonomous Community become in the last positions. It's data; we might need many more. I think that from this data we can make a diagnosis of the situation, and I think that after the diagnosis we must address the policies, including the whole system as a whole, and seeing how we can act in each of them. If I may, I have made a 13-pronged relationship that influences that system of reading in which concrete policies are currently being developed, and, if I may take time, I am going to quote them. The first has to do with education. It is very important to develop the understanding capacity and taste for the book in the educational system and there, I will not repeat myself, the Education Advisor, Cristina Uriarte has presented in the corresponding committee of Parliament the Reader Plan of Euskadi. These policies for the promotion of reading also have as a very important element the continuous training and training of teachers. It is also important, thirdly, to give importance to the content created for digital media. Today it is an undeniable reality that our young people are increasingly resorting to internet consultations, so any action aimed at supporting the creation of internet consultation texts for our young people, such as Wikipedia, we believe is a fundamental action. Another important aspect is to maintain support for writers, literary creation and book publishing. Also support for graphic literature or graphic novel texts. For many young people, access to reading comes from the consumption of such publications, which we consider to have a positive effect on the training of our young people. At the top of this support for creation are the Euskadi literary awards, which we believe must be maintained for their importance in promoting books and for the recognition they represent for their authors. It is also important in this regard to continue and important support for all the fairs that the publishing and bookstore sector organizes in Euskadi with the corresponding institutional support. And on this map, the Euskadi Library Network, which includes municipal libraries and out-of-town libraries, is very important and very important because it involves reading and consulting centres for very important books. External markets are also important and one of the areas supported and should continue to be supported. And this entire publishing system must be perfectly replicated and reproduced in the digital or internet fields. eLibrary responds to this need. eLibrary is today by far the largest digital library in the state, with more than 15,000 titles, and the Basque population is the fourth largest in these digital loans. The Liburuklik platform, a platform for the open and permanent consumption of consultation materials, should also be added to eLibulutegia. And as a vault key to this system, we intend to develop the Basque national digital library with a reference...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u118	Thank you, chief physician. Your time is up. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u119	Gracias, president. Well, I'll thank the counselor for his information. Indeed, it is good to acknowledge that the contribution made by the Euskadi Book House in relation to the Book and Reading Development Plan has been received by the Government. I say again, in the first part of my speech I spoke about the recommendations, the proposals and the initiatives that I am asking the Government to take into account in its actions. It is clear that, as I said before, when we are talking about promoting reading, the book, production, publishing... , we are talking about many areas, mainly cultural, but many others, because within the general introduction on the Euskadi book sector made by the Chamber of the Book, it spoke precisely of business and trade. Within, and it will allow me the suggestion, within what are the 13 aspects, that are good, and perhaps in order to be not 13 and be 14 and so we have no bad luck, because the role of the bookstore and the bookstore must also be taken into account. I think it's the important advocacy role, that book sector, it's trade. It may be collected within the organisations of any of these points, but I believe it has its own specific capacity, and we have recognized it in meetings that we have had with them and with the sectors that bring them together. I believe that there is a possibility, and I said it before, in the recommendations on the bookstore, a possibility of promoting reading and formative within the space of the bookstore and the new commercial centers, new commercial spaces around the bookstore, which is very important to develop and support from public policies. Of course, as I also mentioned earlier, Culture, Education, Industry or Economic Development, Trade, Security, in relation to piracy, are important elements that need to be neutralized, but it is true that there is also public work in the administrations, of which you represent and others, in relation to coordination and support for all this activity. There is also how a new business model was recognized, new models of publishing, bookstores, marketing that need support, many through conventional elements such as campaigns or fairs, but there are other new elements, also linked to new technologies, information, the internet and, well, we are seeing how the plans to promote book reading in different autonomous communities, in Europe, in Spain, are identifying these issues. That is why, perhaps, the result of this interpellation and this dialogue that we are having in connection with the promotion of reading and the book, there is a need for some strategic element on the part of the Basque Government, some element of continuity, some long-term management plan. It was also said by the Euskadi Book House that, those needs for strategic planning within the promotion of reading and continuity of long-term plans. In Spain there is a plan, which is 2018-2020, I don't know if it will be 2018-2021, but the vocation has to be greater, because plans usually stay, are often limited. We had a plan also promoted by Mrs. Urgell. It was a more limited plan than is intended now, but it was interesting, but it is also concrete in 2011 and there it remains with little strategic vocation or continuity. I believe that the reference to these issues is important. The introduction made by the Euskadi Book House in relation to the status of the book speaks of many of these issues that we must identify in relation to new paradigms, new technologies, the digital environment, social and cultural changes in relation to these issues, new habits and new cultural consumption and the needs, therefore, to promote specific and strategic plans, and in this sense that both on reading, on publishing, on the bookstores themselves, it is necessary that there may be, in the end, all this being a habit of Basques and Basques, there must be a plan, I believe, that gives continuity, strategic and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u120	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, does that phrase of "Ez dok hamahiru" ring a bell? There's no thirteenth." I forgot on the 13th, didn't give me time to say it, I didn't have to come well prepared. The 13 was the analysis and ongoing study, the evaluation, the collection of data and the analysis of that information that citizens offer us through different surveys at all times, because I believe it is basic information that should help us set our priorities. I think if we had to make a plan, that plan could be like a square that I had four vertices. We've cited three before. I believe that one of the vertices is the school and the training system and the education system. I believe that the second summit is the libraries, both the schools and the network of libraries that we have in this country. The Third vertex is the cloud, that ethereal thing that is up there where there are so many things, more and more, placed and to which we resort all citizens. And the fourth vertex, I think it is the family, the education for taste in reading, the ease of understanding the contents, is also something that depends on parents and family units where I think we can collaborate with the educational system so that the capacity of understanding that our students must have is better. I believe that if we work and organize that system that I have drawn around those four vertices we can have possibilities to improve what we have put ourselves as the main purpose, as the main objective, which is to improve the reading habit, apart from the ones in which they are made. I believe that the reference to libraries is important and I believe that it also shows a bet that the Basque institutions are doing so in a coordinated and important way. The Basque Autonomous Community is one of the few communities in the Spanish State where the number of libraries has remained, has been increasing year by year. The latest INE statistic, which studies the evolution of libraries and their users, is what it is indicating. And also, in this regard, I believe that the position of the Basque Autonomous Community in these library systems is important because it is the fourth in number of users registered in libraries. Nevertheless, the data tells us that the number of people who go to them and collect books on loan is smaller than it might apparently be. Therefore, I believe that these public policies that we make with the municipalities for the acquisition of published works are important. I think that the initiatives we have with the municipalities to create library funds in those municipalities that do not have a library – usually small municipalities – are important, and I think that the activities that can be developed from these library spaces are very important, which can become places of collaboration between librarians, citizens and, above all, young people; young people who can be encouraged to develop that taste for reading better. I think the work we can do on the network is also important. There's the eLibrary project, which I think we should push; there's the Basque National Digital Library project, which we're also going to give a project, and I think there's the Wikipedia theme as something very important. In one year of work, as a result of the momentum that emerged from the language policy area of the Government, there have been 750 students working on the drafting of texts for one year. 879 articles that existed in Wikipedia have been improved and nearly 500 new articles have been uploaded to the network. Our young people, especially those who are in the early years of their education, have, thanks to this initiative of consultation materials, inescapable references that they did not have before. When we talk about these things we sometimes get lost in small pieces and I would like to give you a figure – if you give me time in 20 seconds – so that you have an idea of the effort that this Community is making from the government in this system of reading and book. This year 2018 we will invest the amount of 7,855,000 euros. I think it gives an idea of the effort that is really being made from all the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u122	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Interadectation, written together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Chief of Work and Justice, about pensions." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u123	Good afternoon. Mrs. San José, we are going to ask you, as you know, an inquiry. You know that – we have already spoken about this in this House – there is a strong demand in Basque society right now about the need to guarantee decent living conditions and sufficient income for people called the elderly. We are familiar with major mobilizations driven by pensioners and retirees calling for concrete measures. These mobilizations also have the support of the unions, which were already raising and demanding these issues, and are essentially and generally seeking to ensure that the resources of pensioners and retirees are sufficient for a dignified life. This claim will coincide with me that responds to a real need, that it is not a claim that comes from an invention, but comes from a real need that has detected society. The cuts in the public pension system, the policies on it and also on the labour market and labour relations in recent years, especially those promoted by the People's Party, and in our opinion, as you know, some of those promoted by the Socialist Party, have contributed to the loss of purchasing power of pensions. I am aware that the pension competences, which have a direct bearing on the system, are not in the government of which you are a party and less in your department. It is, however, the subject of its competence which has to do with the quality of jobs, a matter which is directly linked to the current situation of public pensions based on a system of wealth sharing which is mainly fed by the contributions of the workers; contributions which, as they know perfectly well in their department, are deferred wages of the workers. The precariousness in the labour market, which you also know perfectly well, has reduced wages and reduced contributions, which, together with the reductions in contributions to employers, has reduced the resources of the pension system acting on the labour market. The labour reform of the People's Party has also crushed collective bargaining, unbalanced the correlation of forces that can allow trade union organizations to win the wages needed to have the contributions we need for decent pensions. You occupy a place in the Department of Labour from which you can help and facilitate counterweights to the imbalance caused by the People's Party in labour relations so that social partners can reach the necessary agreements to raise wages and therefore contributions. Although it is also true that at the moment you have it very complicated to address this issue after that which you have linked with the agreement with Confebask that we have also been talking about in recent weeks and that you have broken the social dialogue, but, nevertheless, it is an issue that should be among your objectives if you want to commit yourself also from your department to the demands of our elders, who also demand decent wages for decent pensions, so as not to answer only that those problems that they have are not part of their competences. On the other hand, a few months ago in this Parliament – although not a new debate – there has been a debate on the possibility of the Basque Government providing supplementary pensions in Basque as a response to these demands for pensioners and pensioners. Complements whose medium-term objective would be to guarantee the minimum income of around EUR 1,080 for pensioners and pensioners and in the short term to ensure that no pensioner and no pensioner is located in Euskadi below the poverty line as is currently the case. This is a matter for this Government in our view, although it would not be for its department, but for the Department of Employment and Social Policy. However, I have already asked Mrs Artolazabal about this question and I know the answer to our question perfectly well. Mr Lehendakari also explained this in the media, and this morning we were able to listen to Mr Azpiazu, a finance adviser. The Government to which both Mrs Artolazabal and you belong does not intend to implement such a measure and appeals to income-guarantee income, which supplements income to a certain number of pensioners in our Community, a measure which does not prevent the maintenance of thousands of pensioners below that poverty line. One of the arguments being made by the Government, and also by the parties supporting it in this House in this debate, is that it is an exclusive matter of the public pension system and therefore that we have no competence. In this way, we are constantly referred to the Congress in Madrid. We have already explained our opinion on this on several occasions. We believe, on the one hand, that we actually have to act on the pension system in Congress, and, at the same time, we want to establish supplements to pensions in our Community, both as long as pensions do not reach the levels necessary for a decent life in our Community, which has, among other things, a higher cost of living than other territories. In Congress, in fact, we have been putting forward proposals on this from the United Left for many years and, recently, from our coalition, Unite Podemos, we have put forward different initiatives. We have proposed laws that have, by the way, been vetoed by the People's Party Government with a veto that has had the reverse of the Constitutional Court, which has told the Government of Mariano Rajoy that it was not legal to veto our initiative with the argument that it affected the General Budgets of the State. And, on the other hand, recently, its governing partners in Euskadi have reached an agreement with the People's Party to enable Mariano Rajoy to approve precisely the State's General Budgets, an agreement which has consequences and an agreement with which I hope you do not agree, as it will allow the People's Party to continue to make its policies in all areas, and, of course, in the workplace. Moreover, it will not allow the reform to be reversed over the short-term pension system. The rise in the CPI is limited to two years but is not automatically and permanently indexed. The entry into force of the sustainability factor is postponed, but is not repealed. The loss of purchasing power in the past few years is not recovered and it continues to leave 16,000 pensioners below the poverty line in Euskadi. It is an agreement that ignores the causes of the problems of the public pension system, such as precarious work or low social security contributions, among others, and that has also sought to demobilize the pressure of the street, a pressure that will be a fundamental element for the sooner or later change of pension policies. Therefore, we are told that we must rule out supplements to pensions in Euskadi as a measure to prevent all these pensioners from remaining below the poverty line and we know that the General Budgets of the State, with the agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party in Madrid, will continue to keep all these people in Euskadi below the poverty line and, of course, far from the 1,080 euros of the demand that is on the street. That is why we were interested today in knowing your opinion, as a socialist adviser, your opinion on the decision of the Government to which you belong not to supplement pensions as long as they remain below the thresholds necessary for a life worthy of an important part of our elders, because they tell us that it is a matter of Congress, and your opinion on the agreements that allow the continuity of the policies of the People's Party, which affect and very much the issues that you have to deal with at the head of your Department of Labour, and which will make all those pensioners who in Euskadi not reach the minimum income necessary for a dignified life remain in those conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u124	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u125	Mr Hernandez, before answering your question, I will give you some considerations which I think it is appropriate to point out. Decree 24/2016 of 26 November 2016 of the Lehendakari, on the creation, abolition and modification of the Department of Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and on the determination of the functions and areas of action of the latter, regulates the departmental competences. Article 16 of the Decree specifically specifies those referred to the Department of Labour and Justice, paragraph (d) reads: "Social Security as provided for in the Statute of Autonomy". In the government programme for this XI. Parliament is the complaint and negotiation of the transfer of the economic regime from Social Security, in the terms of transitional provision 5a of the Statute of Gernika. From these competences and from the concern for the future of public pensions, which concerns us all and everyone, I will answer you. I have followed with great interest the debates that have taken place in this House on the situation of pensioners and on whether or not to supplement pensions up to a minimum of EUR 1,080. I will start by stating the idea of a pension system that I defend and then I will talk to you about the minimum amount of the pension. I defend the public pension system in force in the State. Another thing is the problems with which you find yourself, which I will then comment on as well. I defend the public pension system because it is the only one that guarantees that all persons regardless of their social status can have access to a decent pension. On the other hand, it is a right contained in the 1978 Constitution, in articles 41 and 50. This system is viable and sustainable, if it is based on intergenerational and territorial solidarity, if it is provided with the necessary inputs and if economic employment and working conditions policies adequately accompany it. In very recent years and decades farther away, the system has secured pensions and even produced significant surpluses that have formed the so-called reserve fund. In other words, we know how to make a sustainable pension system with contributions. We've done it and we've got to get it back. A system of distribution which is supported in the distribution of all the general resources obtained at each moment, with an essential component of a social and solidarity nature. A system in which today's contributors, workers and businesses do so to get their pension paid by current pensioners, and they will collect it with what others do. This is basically what is contained in the Toledo Pact, which, by the way, should be activated and strengthened, because the Toledo Pact is the natural place where the amount of the minimum pension should be addressed, an amount for which there are already more or less consensus references and which should be set out in terms of amount, period of achievement and long-term financing guarantees. If we want public pensions for all, sufficient and supportive, it is a mistake to pretend to locate their solution in part. I am sure we agree that in this society there are political sectors that aim to move us towards other alternative systems based on contributions to private capitalisation plans. Private plans that leave out the most disadvantaged, who can neither contribute nor generate enough savings to live decently at the end of their working life. I used to tell you, Mr Hernández, what a system I defend is accusing you of problems that put you in question. The reduction in contributions due to the effect of unemployment, the precariousness of employment, the devaluation of wages or the weakening of collective bargaining are some of the reasons why the costs of maintaining the public pension system are above income. To overcome this situation, we need to implement measures that have a strong political will burden, that are addressed globally, that are treated as it is, a country problem; and this brings us and will lead us back to the Toledo Pact. Because we are talking about one of the basic pillars of the welfare state and its viability is based on the redistribution of wealth generated in the country. I am very concerned about pensioners, who are suffering from a process of impoverishment, who have income below what is considered the poverty line to which the State does not respond with the increases it needs. I think that the administrations must act, but I also believe that the definitive solution will come, among other things, because more quality jobs are created by reducing temporary and part-time jobs. In short, that young people should gain access to jobs with better and more stable wages, that collective bargaining should be encouraged to increase the wages of women workers, that there should be genuine consultation and social dialogue, which, I would insist, should be promoted by the Toledo Pact. I also believe that non-contributory pensions, certain management costs and policies of subsidising recruitment can and should be financed from the State's General Budgets. At the same time, we have to deal with the situations of poverty to which I referred earlier and which are taking place in the pensioner community. I find two ways to overcome these situations. On the one hand, we must maintain our commitment to the public pension system and, on the other, reform our social protection system to strengthen it. This second is a debate that is pending in this House and on which you have the last word. Ladies and gentlemen, the essential thing is to maintain and strengthen the public pension system, so that pensions reach sufficient income to guarantee a decent life. My ideal would be that no subsidies were needed. Those responsible for the situation that many of the pensioners are living are those who applied in medicine Another issue raised in dealing with these debates is that of complying with the recommendations of the European Social Charter. These recommendations should be a benchmark for action and will force us to update the tools that self-government equips us to achieve the goal. To relate pensions to the inter-professional minimum wage, to increase them according to the consumer price index and, as I told you, to supplement it with the instruments proper to our Autonomy must be the compendium that allows the life worthy of the pensioners. I'm not going into any more details. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I do not want to address issues that are not my sole competence, but you are going to discuss a proposal for a law on income guarantee income reform, a proposal for a law that has been introduced by groups supporting the Government and which contains a differentiated guarantee income for pensioners and pensioners, a guarantee income that will increase the supplement of income, which, I am convinced, is going to bring about a substantial improvement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u126	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u127	Yes, Mrs. San José. I think I was more or less aware of your opinion on the public pension system, which, moreover, to a large extent, at least what you have said here, I share, but my question was not in that sense. At the end of my speech, I asked him about two questions. One era if you agree with your Government's decision that the supplement to pensions in Euskadi is not a valid tool to ensure in our Community that pensioners reach that level of income that we consider worthy and sufficient income, after you yourself have said that ensuring adequate and dignified pensions is an obligation and that it is in the Constitution, we therefore believe that only through the current public pension system should we guarantee it. And I agree if this is possible, I agree with this, but that is why I have asked you about a second question. We think, and I do not know whether you agree, and therefore we ask you, that the agreement reached in Madrid by the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party is going to deactivate that progress can be made in the short term, because you appeal to the Toledo Pact and we think that it is very possible that if in recent years the Toledo Pact has been totally ignored by the People's Party, which has made reforms by bypassing the Toledo Pact, we think that perhaps, once that concrete claim to update pensions under the CPI for these two years is saved, there will be the government in Madrid the perfect argument not to activate the Toledo Pact and to make the reforms that we have been demanding from the left. And that is why I wanted to ask you your opinion as a socialist adviser on this, because, among other things, I understand that the opinion of the two government partners on this issue is not the same. And I believe that this issue is not part of the government agreement that you have, and I therefore understand that I am not asking you to be disloyal to your government partners, if you give us your opinion as a Labour Counsellor on that issue that will affect us, especially since, as you yourself have said, the case of the transfer of management of Social Security will be a matter that you will have to deal with if you continue to lead that department.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u129	Mr Hernández, I too knew your position on this matter. So, well, I would like to reiterate that I continue to insist that I feel of course identified with many of the demands of the pensioners who have been mobilizing in recent months, which I fully agree with to raise an increase in the 0.25 % in pensions is little less than an insult to those who are receiving pensions that do not allow them to live a life with sufficient dignity, that the situation of widows who were dependent on a pension generated by their husband and who are half of their income is denigrating. I insist on what I said in my first speech, and I repeat, what is the valid tool. I insist that the important thing is that the public pension system operates and provides a guarantee of decent lives for all pensioners. That progress be made towards the implementation of the recommendations of the European Social Charter. That the minimum pension, the interprofessional minimum wage and CPI are related to ensure that there is no real loss of income. This will require an improvement in the income of those who enter or have little time in the labour market. What is important is that young people should be able to come up with a stable and quality life horizon, that we should end the precarious employment situation, that collective bargaining, consultation and social dialogue should be revitalized, as guarantors of an improvement in living conditions with workers. Where this objective cannot be achieved, further action will have to be taken. In the case of our Community, we put at the service of these objectives the instruments we have and others which, as I said in my first speech, can be put into operation. The resources are scarce and in the absence of the State providing the means to address the situation as a whole, we have an obligation to respond. Compensation for pharmaceutical replenishment has been articulated; there are aids that guarantee the right to housing and we have supplementary benefits or social emergency aid. All this, with the reform of income guarantee income, will make it possible to equalise the minimum pension with the inter-professional minimum wage, and to overcome it in the case of the beneficiaries there are two. I want to start from the premise that you and I both defend the public pension system, decent pensions and many of the demands that are being made in the mobilizations. In other autonomous communities, such as Navarre, a law has been passed, which you support and which guarantees a minimum income of 705 euros. If we compare it to what is being proposed here, I think that Navarra law is very short. But I will not question your commitment to the pensioners. What I do invite you to think about is why they don't put into practice where they rule what they preach here. For my part, I will continue to defend what I have said and, of course, to apply the competences assigned to me by the Department of Labour and Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-11.u130	Thank you, chief physician. Next, I shall read an institutional expression: "The American Institutional Expression of the Parliament of Europe concerning the state of La Naval; "La Naval shipola, with history above a hundred years old, is in a state of great difficulty. He has been in the course of eight months at the creditors, and he may be nearly extinct, if not all the parts which are involved do not act with care and need. All this would also lead to the extinction of a portion of this people's memory and manufactured history. "The result of this state is that two thousand direct and indirect jobs in the South Valley are in danger. This valley is highly damaged in the sooconomic area, and may also be endangered by the important and unrecoverable technical knowledge connected with the formation of the ship. "The Basque Parliament calls on the society, the public and private institutions concerned and all the parties involved to take the utmost responsibility and collaboration to find the best solution to the situation that is currently facing the Naval of Sestao. "In the short term, the survival of the shipyard depends on ensuring the construction of the dredging vessel 347, which implies the need for a quick and effective agreement between the financial institutions and the shipowner, which will ensure the completion of the construction of the ship in accordance with the technical, economic and temporary conditions initially foreseen. "A proper agreement would allow the recovery of the activity of the ship, and it would be a necessary time for La Naval to define and seek a final solution. That's why we're asking the Basque and the other implicated operators to increase their efforts to attract commitment investments within the limits of a long-term caucusing industrial plan. "More than 2,000 southern families, a great part of the activity of the town of Sesta, a recruit from the fleet's sector, and a part of our history are at stake. We call on commitment, to long-term perspective and care." Since we've exhausted the whole meeting line, I'll end it. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-three.
