ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u0	First point in theme list: "The understanding of the board of impenetrabilitys made on the compatibility condition of the Euscal Radio Central Administration candidate in the Central Administration Council. and may be so called a member of that council. Do any members of the board want to vote for the judgment? Aurka? No. We're just gonna vote for the union committee's resolution. Are we all here or should I ring the bell? We'll vote, okay? We can vote (the stop) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u1	Therefore judgment is approved. After we've approved our judgment, we're going to apply the procedure to a member of the Basque Radio-Television Country Association. According to the article of the 204.6 Rule of the Basque Act, each member of the legislature will make a choice for five minutes, according to the article 96.3.b of the Rule, by the tickets. However, seeing other options and no alternative candidates, I propose to make the nomination without vote. Don't we all agree? So, by consent, all right? "Todos de accerdo?" Isn't it? So we name Mrs. Aisor and Aguirre a member of the Basque Radio Administration Council. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss first the Eupartarian Asciators and the Parliamentary Socialists of the Basque Society, to change the 12/16th of July, 1620th of the political motivation between 1978 and 1999, which has suffered the watering of human rights. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're being divided, and then we're going to argue. It's the side shift and the other side shifts. So we'll start with our side shifts. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u2	Good morning, everyone. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. The Socialist Group proposes to this House that we should finish off the path of an unfinished task in relation to the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations and unjust suffering in a context of politically motivated violence. A task that I would like to remind you that you have a unanimous mandate from this House in March 2011, with only one abstention and no other opposition to, inter alia, establishing the precise policy measures for such recognition and redress. No one, even when ETA had not ceased its threat, absolutely no one, questioned that need. That mandate led to the decree of the year 2012, which allowed us to recognize 187 victims, who are without the victim being determined, and no one questions it either now, and it is the one that led to the law that we passed in the year 2016, under the same principles. But now there are those who want to question it. In this law, the socialists contribute all the elements, since the change of title, to the deletion of the sections referring to the right to justice and various drafting corrections that could prevent misleading interpretations. Still, it's true, there were some doubts. And what we are doing today is proposing to this House that, as in previous cases, we think exclusively of the victims, without any other possible interpretation, in order to make these avenues of reparation possible. We're bound to do it. We are bound by article 15 of the Spanish Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to life and physical and moral integrity without, under any circumstances, being subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. And as stated in the very explanatory statement of this law, when this fundamental right is violated in a democratic system, the public authorities must act, not only in the prevention of such actions, but also, where appropriate, in their reparation and recognition. This Parliament is part of these public authorities. And Euskadi has recognized powers to do so. And as that same statement of reasons continues, both this law and the previous decree, assuming and repairing is not equal. Terrorist actions did not justify a single violation that had been carried out through abuse of power, but the existence of human rights violations could also not be presented as a confrontation between two violence caused by political conflict. Therefore, this law is devoted to the attention of the victims who, as such, have not been recognized or repaired as such, without any other possible interpretation, and we say this expressly in that norm, and this is what we speak of in the law: victims, a rule of law that is strengthened when it corrects and repairs the judgments it has had and the courage to build a future coexistence from a critical memory of the past. We don't all do that today. Those of us who propose this law do, because we reaffirm our commitment to the unequivocal principle that there was never a reason to reap a life, nor to undermine the integrity of anyone. Here, therefore, there is a political will to institutionally redress what is morally and personally irreparable, because unjustly suffered suffering is irreparable and because the law expressly excludes any complaint that has not been prescribed, that can continue to be claimed before the courts where it should be. Vice had no justification, no justification of rights. Today, without personal payments or judicial payments, we aim to pay both the political compensation due to victims, because we can't appreciate the suffering that victims suffered, but we can accept and correct the defects made by the state, and that's what we're doing today. Terror did not justify rights, but these violations of rights do not reveal any conflict, and we think it's essential to make it clear. There is a socialist commitment on the part of my group to the rule of law, which we defend by risking our lives, which has been gaining space against those who wanted to kill it, which defeated ETA, which must guarantee the integrity of every human being, which becomes stronger when it is able to repair every human rights violation. We do so, moreover, from the conviction that in democracy the majority of the ertzainas, civil guards, national police and judges have been respectful of the rule of law, from the gratitude to that vast majority of public servants who were indispensable to end half a century of human rights violations by ETA, also with the bands that used ETA as an excuse for their crimes. And since the claim that these public officials do not deserve to be questioned because there is someone who intends to hide under a heavy slab the sufferings that others could cause; they do not deserve that any public complaint that is not intended to be analyzed be used by those who still today, when they still do not recognize the unjust, painful and useless history of ETA's terror, intend to feed unacceptable theories of conflict. This was the reason that moved us in the parliamentary agreement of 2011, in the decree of the year 2012 and in the law of 2016, which we now refine more so that that reparation can be made possible. We sincerely believed that the text adopted and most of it in force met the requirements of maximum legal certainty, but clearly there were doubts, which were the ones on the table of the Constitutional Court, because let us remember, that court did not question Basque competence to make such reparation, nor its need, what it was studying was whether there were any loopholes that could harm other rights, such as the presumption of innocence or a possible collision with the judiciary. And it is true that these doubts, in spite of everything, could remain, because the law, as we said at the time in this Parliament, had precipitated at the end of the legislature and had been promoted with voluntarism, but lack of consensus cooking that requires any rule or proposal that looks at the victims. My group will not tire of demanding maximum prudence, maximum consensus and maximum sensitivity with regard to this law or other painful questions about our recent past. That is because it does not try to feed false grievances and because it does not feed promises that this Parliament cannot fulfil, because it is not competent to deal with the claim of justice or the determination of responsibilities. And this plenary would be a good opportunity for all of us who were in that 2011 plenary and who were not to agree on the essentials. I personally took it as a mandate rather than a political, moral one because it was up to me to respond as a counselor to that parliamentary request. And the first thing I did was to visit those forgotten victims; along with who was my director of human rights, I began to enter those houses, into their most private space, where they had had to hide their pain, to tell them that it was our intention to rescue them from the corners of oblivion. We told them clearly that we were not going to satisfy their anxiety and the right to justice, because it did not belong to us, but rather their need for recognition and reparation; that it was going to be clear that there is nothing above human dignity and integrity, and that the unpayable work of the police forces to end ETA cannot be questioned by the intolerable abuses of a few. And that is the path we agreed with the victims, explaining the opportunities and also the limitations; with all parliamentary groups, and with the Government of Spain in 2012. That is why today there are 187 families that have been recognized, because that rule that we make, that decree that we work on, and that was not resorted to, was one more step in the journey to complete our memory. Because we did it from the same principles that have allowed us to conquer our freedom: legality, the rule of law and consensus, between us and between the governments of Spain and Euskadi. The 2016 law was conceived with the same will, but for reasons other than the victims, consensuses were no longer possible. Today, the Government of Spain and Euskadi are once again demonstrating their capacity to understand each other and the parliamentary groups that support them are giving way to that understanding, returning their eyes to the victims, without leaving open doors to the interpretation that someone could lead to unjust grievances between those who have suffered terrorism or any other violation of their rights. It is what we intend to do with this reform that today We bring this House and for which we call for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u4	Mr. President, Mr. President, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, all good days. On the 28th of July, 2016, the Act of 12/2016 was adopted in the Parliament. Two years have passed, and though we expected another course, we are again at this full meeting proposing to change the law. As a matter of fact, I wish the situation had been different. At the meeting of the 28th of July, 2016, I said that it was no longer a confession, and we took the first step to confirm our observation, and that it would not be the end. But, actually, I didn't think the law would spend two years in the Constitution's freezer. I'll say it again this time too: The law was necessary, I should say, indispensable; the law had every legal guarantee, and the law maintained itself within the limits of our jurisdiction, and so was observed by all who had passed the commission of this legislature. The law, then, was constitutional, but those who acknowledge and refuse to observe these victims, not only voted against the law, but also introduced an appeal. In this way the development of the law was evidently to be checked and checked. However, after the change of Madrid's government, there was an opportunity to end with obstacles, and this was the chance of the Eukal des Jeltgs and of the EukMicks with the Spanish Government. The goal was correct: guarantees the growth of the law. That is to say, to take steps to acknowledge the victims and observe them. On June 25th the President of the Urkullu and President Peter Sánchez, and the two governments agreed to put an end to the controversy. The agreement reached, to which this proposed law seeks to give effect, seeks to strengthen legal and constitutional guarantees. In fact, it definitively ratified the guarantees already present in the original text of the law. First, the guarantee that powers reserved for the judiciary are not invaded and, secondly, that the right to honour, privacy or the protection of third-party data is guaranteed. In addition, this proposal fulfils a mandate under the domestic law of the State and international human rights law, such as the recognition and protection of victims of human rights violations. This is a task of all the public authorities to which the State repeatedly and scandalously ignores. The Basque institutions, however, we respond. Indeed, measures for the recognition and reparation of victims can and must be taken by the public authorities, logically always with limits and with full respect for fundamental rights. This rule, we said in the debate of the law, confines its object to an administrative and assistance activity that seeks the reparation and compensation of the victims because this is the important thing, the victims. The victims are the important thing. The Assessment Commission provided for by law must examine the relationship between the alleged damage and the fact causing it, and on the basis of that examination, it shall decide in a favourable or unfavourable manner each of the applications submitted. This activity is clearly differentiated from the purification of any criminal liability for such acts, which in no way constitutes the object of the law, which did not constitute it in its initial wording and which does not constitute it now. What we propose today does not alter the content or the object of the law, it does not diminish the commitment of Basque institutions to the victims. What we do is very simple: to introduce small changes, which are summarized in five articles and a final provision, to strengthen legal certainty and to respond more clearly to the criticisms that have been and continue to be made from some sectors. Critics that were unwarranted then and are more unwarranted if it fits at this time. To this end, the following amendments are incorporated: In article 2 of the Act, the scope of application includes a reference to the fact that the accreditation of wrongful acts may not in any way be unaware of what has already been decided by the criminal court. In article 4 of the Act, the principles of action change the terms of the precepts so that no interference is possible in the individual sphere of persons who may be related to the files being processed. A new principle of the preservation of criminal jurisdiction is introduced in the investigation of conduct that may constitute an offence. Article 7, the right to the truth, amends the provisions on cooperation of the Basque public authorities with the bodies of the Basque Government responsible for the management of the programme of the law. The aim is to make it less intense and conceivable to be associated exclusively with the proper completion of administrative files, and all this is proposed, so that it cannot be understood that judicial powers are violated. In Article 14, with regard to instruction, the expression of the functionality of the Evaluation Commission is amended to delete the so-called "off-the-shelf actions". In this way, it is clear that the commission acts or addresses people with the inescapable premise of always safeguarding the rights to honour, to the presumption of innocence and to the protection of personal data; it is also clear that the collaboration it receives does not include any fact-finding mission, but an exclusive provision for the most complete resolution of cases. Finally, the sixth additional provision is deleted. We agree on an operationality of the program that promotes the law away from any assessment of the fact that is provided as a support of the administrative fact, so it loses its meaning any regulation centered on the presence of the element of guilt. The object of these changes is to explain the prejudices and doubts which the law has produced in certain sectors. In truth, a judgment of the intention of the law has been made, a violent and absolutely unjust judgment, which is now denied the change. They seek to strengthen the jurisdictions and constitutionals, thus confirms what was already received in the original text of the law. First, let them not invade the jurisdictions of judicial power, and, secondly, the right to honor the third people, to privacy, or data protection. In the same way, it has been sought to obtain a warrant for the international rights of human rights and an inner law. that it is a business of public power to support the victims of the waters of human rights. Whilst the state openly disclaims this command, the Basque institutions wish to oppose it above all difficulties. We're trying to guarantee victims and support from the Basque organizations. And I end with the same idea I put forward on the occasion of the adoption of the law in July 2016: let's look at the real protagonists, the victims. Today a significant number of victims see an open – I would say, reopened – path. They were victims of human rights violations due to police or para-police abuses between 1960 and 1999. Today we reopen the way for you to advance your rights to truth, justice and reparation. We know and know that it is not the end of the road – it is true, and unfortunately we have been able to verify it for the past two years – we know and know that it is one more step on a necessary and unreplaceable path. A path that will be gradual or not will be, a path that we restart with the same conviction as then but with more guarantees. We retain the same will: To go on the way of the surrender of the victims of human rights and of the reward of human rights. At all costs, we'll take that road, and they'll get what victims deserve. It will be so with all certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u5	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. On the other hand, Mr. Barrio, representative of the Basque Potula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u6	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. My group wants to defend the vote against the consideration of this proposed law amending Law 12/2016. And before referring to legal considerations, we would like to recall that the aforementioned Law 12/2016 was a very badly done law, in haste, without time and, moreover, with warnings of its absolute lack of constitutional accommodation. We can say that this amendment that is before us today does not fix the problems, and although it is, it says, intended to remove the constitutional obstacles raised in the unconstitutionality appeal 2336/2017, we believe that the serious difficulties of constitutional accommodation remain, as I shall try to point out at once. We also wish to draw attention to the fact that such an initiative cannot provoke as much opposition among various groups as are the State security forces and bodies, associations of victims of terrorism or Ertzaintza unions, as we have all seen. We make our protest and understand that the recognition of victims of crime cannot go hand in hand with an autonomous law in the search for discrediting police bodies, as can be this case and this procedure used through this proposed law. We understand that these are right in their protest. Something is failing in the approach that this proposed law makes, and the concern and serious reservations about what the provisions of this proposed law may entail are clear. The proposal for a law starts from the agreement of 30 July between the State Administration and the Administration of the Basque Autonomous Community in the bilateral commission, but has not taken into account this negative view, I say again, of the State security forces and bodies and of the main associations of victims of terrorism. And the considerations of these associations, of these unions are absolutely legal, constitutional. So are the ones we will try to achieve. The proposed law that materializes the agreement of last July implies an attempt to disconnect the commission from the fact that it consists of the violation of rights, usually criminal, of the usually criminal responsibility of the author, authors who would not be required to bear any responsibility. It is stated in the Government Agreement, paragraph 1 (a), that "the amendments that are intended to be incorporated into Law 12/2016 affect in a specific way the precepts of Law 12/2016 which were the subject of an appeal of unconstitutionality and which have been the subject of controversy before the Constitutional Court". This is half-truth. Indeed, the five amendments raised concern prefects who were subject to appeal, but not all those specifically appealed, in fact on the basis of first law, it is stated that it constitutes the object of the appeal of the Law of the Basque Country 12/2016 of 28 July, on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Human Rights Vulnerations in the context of the political violence of the Basque Autonomous Community between 1978 and 1999, the obvious interconnection of all the precepts forming part of the contested law. It determines that the object of the challenge is not confined exclusively to certain precepts of the norm, however isolated they may not seem unconstitutional, but extends to the challenge of the norm as a whole, to the extent that they are based on the same unconstitutional budget, for which they are put at their service. The appeal considered that this law – that Law 12/2016 – was unconstitutional immediately in relation to articles 117, 118, 9.3 and 103.1 of the Spanish Constitution, which entailed the violation of fundamental rights enshrined in articles 18 and 24 of the Constitution, and for competing reasons under article 149, certain paragraphs, letters and paragraphs of article 149, all of them also of the Constitution. The same view is expressed by the Council of State in its report on Law 12/2016, which states that it must be stressed that even if the main object of the Basque law is not the creation of the said body – we speak of the Evaluation Commission – but the establishment of the necessary regulation to allow the declaration of a victim of a violation of human rights in favour of the persons who suffered them and to recognize certain rights inherent to that condition, it does not doubt that such regulation is articulated through a procedure whose nuclear phase is based on the attribution to the Evaluation Commission of the aforementioned functions of investigation of crimes and determination of its incardinated authorship, as has been reasoned, in the judicial function. And this is the question and this is the key to the question and the key to our opposition. This determines that the challenge must be directed against the whole of the law, given the obvious interconnection between all the prefects who make up it, all of them aimed at a purpose which would be frustrated if the precepts of which the jurisdictional nature of the functions of the Evaluation Commission were declared unconstitutional. For this parliamentary group, the reform or amendments that are intended to be carried out in Law 12/2016 through this proposed law are manifestly insufficient in terms of the adequacy of the law to the constitutional framework, contrary to what is stated in the statement of reasons for the proposed law itself. And in relation to the explanatory statements, it is very significant that the very explanatory statement of Law 12/2016 is kept unchanged, despite the fact that these amendments – it is said – are so substantial that they transform the original rule into perfectly constitutional so that the remedy put forward would lose its purpose. Well, the statement of reasons for Law 12/2016 contains principles and assertions contrary to the proposed reform, in that it states that the Law seeks to facilitate the knowledge of the facts and circumstances that occurred in the years 1978 and 1999 or to address those cases that, because they have prescribed, have not found the proper recognition, determining that the main function of this commission will focus, from the accreditation of the facts, on the assessment of the damage and everything without entering into criminal consideration of the said facts, which is impossible when those facts, factual budget and necessary for the recognition of the status of victim, consist, in nothing more and nothing less, than violations of human rights with the result of injuries, sequelae, damage, etc. Thus, despite the five amendments that are intended to be made, the law turns out that it would continue to incur unconstitutionality, in so far as, by means of the valuation commission that is created in it, the functions of the criminal jurisdiction are carried out in the investigation of facts that may constitute an offence, prescribed or not, but offences, i.e. by invading, with all this, the reservation of the jurisdictional function of judging and bringing to justice, the execution of the court provided for in article 117 of the Constitution. In addition, the procedure to be followed before the Evaluation Commission referred to in chapter IV of the Act, as well as the consequences associated with the declaration of victim status, involve an extra-judicial procedure to clarify facts that may constitute criminal types. Thus, the procedure for determining the circumstances or the authorship of the offence, even if prescribed, is likely to violate the right to the honour of persons or the right to the presumption of innocence, without it being possible for the persons concerned to properly defend themselves with the same guarantees as in a judicial process, notably those provided for in article 24 of the Spanish Constitution and, inter alia, the right to be tried by the ordinary judge established by law and their corresponding right to challenge the law if there are grounds for bias – some example we have of it – or the right to the defence or assistance of the lawyer, or the right not to declare against himself or to the presumption of innocence. Moreover, Law 12/2016 separates itself from the rules governing other aid to victims, whose recognition as a result of generating acts, which are also crimes, faults or administrative offences, requires the processing of a procedure in which prior judicial activity is verified, even where, without a sentence, appropriate judicial proceedings have been carried out or criminal proceedings have been instituted for the prosecution of acts constituting possible offences. This is the case, for example, in the area of the state with Law 52/2007 of 26 December, which recognizes or expands rights and establishes measures in favour of those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War or the dictatorship, etc. The criticism, which does not refer to the existence and regulation of an administrative procedure for the declaration of victim status, should therefore also be left to the discretion of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to regulate aid to victims of violent crimes – and has already done so, some have referred to it – in the autonomous sphere, to care for these people, but the issue here involves a constitutional conflict that we have already explained. With regard to some of the specific amendments referred to in the proposed law, it should be noted that article 1 of the proposed law introduces in article 2.4 of Law 12/2016, which regulates the way of proving violations of human rights in a context of political motivation, that is, the way of proving the facts constituting the violation, something obvious, which cannot be ignored what has already been resolved by the criminal court, but it is expressly maintained that such violations may be proved, in the absence of a judicial decision, by any means of evidence admissible in law, without the existence of a prior judicial process. In other words, the establishment of a new court, parallel to the judiciary, with powers to assess human rights violations where the courts have not ruled, is still envisaged, and the courts have been deprived of their constitutional competence to try any alleged violation of human rights to the extent that they constitute a crime against the fundamental rights of individuals. Article 2 of the proposal also provides, on the one hand, for the deletion of Article 4.2.c from the expression "clarification of facts", which does not entail any effectiveness, since in reality the whole article is full of references or expressions such as "proofs of facts", "accreditation of facts", "medies of admissible evidence in law", "for the purpose of proving, accrediting, testimony of persons for their direct and indirect knowledge of the facts", "accounting for the outcome of investigations that help to have a thorough and real knowledge of what has happened", "the commission will make a summary of the facts that caused the violation"... That is, "knowing", "accrediting", "proving", "investigating", "proving the facts" or "summarizing the facts", obviously proven, is nothing other than "clarifying the facts", something that is removed in an article, but which is explained throughout the whole law, or something very similar, at least. On the other hand, Article 2 of the proposal proposes the addition of a new point (e) to the same paragraph 2 of Article 4, which includes the so-called "principle of preserving criminal jurisdiction in the investigation of conduct that may constitute an offence". This is in contradiction, not only with the statement of reasons for the law – which we have already said before – but also with the wording of the law, which provides that the Evaluation Commission will only suspend the procedure when it is before the illegal proceedings not prescribed. In other words, the commission may determine the existence of criminally relevant acts of offences which, by definition, are always illegal acts, constituting non-prescribed human rights violations. Article 4 of the proposed law proposes various amendments to article 14 of Law 12/2016, which, given the horrific legislative technique used, is that it is necessary to see in the proposed law how this article 4 and those amendments to Article 14 are explained!, that is, a regrettable legislative technique, based on suspensive points or on the expression in a law the "equal rest" – that is a draft, but that is not a proposed law that can be approved –, it is not known what is suppressed. With suspensive points it is not known if it is suppressed, if it is not suppressed, if you have to put more things in, what happens... Of course, as a legislative technique it is absolutely regrettable: it is not known what is deleted and what is maintained in the original text of article 14. In particular, we would like to know exactly how Article 14(8) is worded, since as it is worded in the proposal, it can be understood that most of it is deleted and that it is preserved in its entirety. That is to say, this alone would be and is a reason to request the withdrawal of this proposal of law, as unintelligible. I mean, it's an article that nobody knows what it means, based on suspensive points and expressions like "the same rest." I think we need to think about it, and I do not know if anyone has done that from legal services, especially from the proposing parties. But, in any case, it is truly striking for regret. Article 14 regulates the investigation of the proceedings and it is clear that, despite the proposed amendments, genuine investigative functions are maintained in the text of the law, which coincide with judicial functions, such as recording the applicant's statement, collecting data and reports from the Government, the Administration, requesting information from other public or private authorities or entities on data, background, reports, requesting testimony from persons or experts whose testimony may also be recorded, persons who may be cited and have an obligation to appear... Finally, to conduct as many proceedings as he considers accurate in order to resolve the most complete of the files, which is similar to the previous proceedings to better provide or final proceedings proper to the judicial proceedings. In addition, Article 14(7) confers on the commission, on an exclusive and independent basis, the power to propose the non-admission of the application once it has been admitted, to propose or to refuse the declaration of victim status. This procedure involves conferring on an administrative body powers of investigation, recognition of criminal acts, even prescribed, and assessment of evidence attributed by article 117 of the Spanish Constitution to the courts of justice. Article 14(7) also implies a power of a paralegal nature of the commission to admit or dismiss complaints, requests, claims for human rights violations, assess evidence and propose the declaration of victim status. These are, therefore, legal precepts that transform the Valuation Commission into a sort of commission of truth parallel to the judicial, that runs the risk of violating the fundamental rights of the persons under investigation and that would operate outside the effective judicial guardianship granted to us all by article 24 of the Spanish Constitution. And all this in spite of the declarations or good intentions contained in some of the amendments which are, at least, intended to be declarative. In summary, despite the above-mentioned amendments that are intended to be made to the law, it would continue to incur unconstitutionality for two types of reasons. On the one hand, because Law 12/2016 attributes to the Evaluation Commission a parallel character to the jurisdictional one. Faced with this, Title 6 of the Spanish Constitution of 1978, and in particular Articles 117 and 122, together with the fifth and sixth rules of Article 149.1, enshrine the principle of unity of the judiciary and its configuration as a power of the State, which implies two consequences: the first, that the judicial function is exclusive to judges, never to a valuation commission; and the second, that the State has exclusive competence for its regulation. Moreover, Law 12/2016 is liable to violate, through its application, the fundamental rights protected in articles 18 of the Constitution, the right to honour, and article 24 of the Constitution, the right to presumption of innocence and effective judicial protection. In this respect, it is true that the reform envisaged in the proposal abolishes the initial provision for the public authorities to disseminate the factual relations which the Evaluation Commission has found to be a violation of human rights produced in the context of violence, articles 7 and 14.8, but it is no less true that, despite the provisions of articles 4 and 14 of the proposal, the fundamental rights to the presumption of innocence and effective judicial protection set out in article 24 of the Constitution, through the mandatory intervention of the Administration of Justice, as a depositary body exclusively of the power of investigation, recognition, reparation for the activities of legal persons, as is undoubtedly the human rights violations referred to in the contested law, are violated. Ladies and gentlemen, my group has analysed this proposal and wanted to use this shift as a whole amendment. It is not a bill, we know that this procedure is that of consideration, but we have understood that this had to serve us with rigour to establish our opposition and the why of our opposition. We made a political assessment at first in relation to the sensitivity or non-sensitivity of the proposing groups in relation to the difficulties that this proposed law had, as was the case with Law 12/2016, which we talked about earlier, and that is why we raised and understood that we had to oppose. That is to say, logically, if we were allowed to do so, we will also table our amendments, as we did, with bad luck, with Law 12/2016, where the legislative procedure was done without deadlines, in haste, without extension of deadlines, in record time, without analysis in paper. Well, in any case, if we were to accept it in the same way that we have done this whole amendment approach now, we will also do so in our partial amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u7	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u8	The truth is that, listening to Mr Barrio in his speech, the first thing that came to my mind is with which People's Party I agreed the decree that year 2012, because it was a People's Party with which we agreed a decree that also contains within it a commission of appraisal. I have to say, Mr Barrio, that it is an administrative body and that any executive needs the facts, of course, to declare it a victim. Because if not, what would it be? No window? Does anyone who approaches and says he is, the Government automatically, without any legal or procedural question, proceed to the victim's recognition and compensation? Man, no. This is an executive, and it is a serious executive who has to stick to serious and regulated procedures. And logically, there has to be the part of the test. That is why the Commission for the Evaluation of the Law we are talking about today has the same thing as the decree of the year 2012, an evaluation commission that receives the victim, listens to it, provides documentation, the one he has, and seeks to accompany that documentation with more documentation that, in fact, says that the victim is. And the Government proceeds through internal procedures to declare the victim and to make reparation. It's legal certainty, it's that the administration can't do anything else. And that's where we're at. In addition, you have made a global questioning of the law, when even the Constitutional has not questioned the law. You have not questioned whether we have the power to do so, because you have focused on the fact that it seems that the whole object of the law is the creation of a valuation commission. Error. The object of the law is the reparation and recognition of the victims, that is the object of the law, and we do so from the competences we have as an autonomous community in the field of social affairs. And when you tabled amendments in due course in 2016, I must remind you that you did not question at any time that there had been abuses, did not question that we had these powers. I am talking about the amendments that you tabled then, now if you present others in this procedure, it is legitimate to change your mind, but I am referring to how much this debate in this House came about at the end of last parliamentary term. And also, there I share with you, we must clear up any suspicion or question that we could invade the judicial sphere; therefore, that is also the subject of what we are presenting today in this House, to say that we must make it quite clear. You, already in the end, have also curled the curl because really, Mr Carmelo Barrio, you are not new in this House. We have shared many years, some papers of laws, and you already in the last rhyme of your argument alluded to legislative technique, suspensive points... Man, I mean, you have the text of the law passed in this House, you have the amendments, the changes we propose the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, and you have nothing more to do with the work. I mean, it's done on many occasions, it's easy to read. Anyway, I don't know, same because I have legal training, but it's not so difficult or so complicated to put the suspensive points, and the rest remains the same. I think we should be able to make more serious arguments, because I believe that what is being debated in this House today and what we are going to adopt in the coming months with this bill is as serious as getting people who have suffered human rights violations out of oblivion. And I, who represent a party that has left people on the road to defending the rule of law, believe that the rule of law as best defended is debugging its own mistakes. And if the State does not, we do so from the Autonomous Community in this field, which is trying to compensate and recognize the victims. And since there are groups that have not intervened in this turn and will do so in the explanation of vote, I want to say that unlike other autonomous communities we here have guided ourselves by the sense of the usefulness of the law, we seek the recognition of the victims and not make nice speeches that end in frustrations. The Socialist Group will never work to generate frustration in people, neither in this field nor in any other, so we have participated in the elaboration of this law which seeks to repair the victims. And I also want to defend Spain's democratic standards, because in recent days the judiciary has been questioned, questioned by some political parties, and I want to say and highlight that Spain participates in international bodies and the Court of Strasbourg, which is part of its internal judicial system, and which does so voluntarily, and that it is also one of the states that has fewer judgments and cases before the Court of Strasbourg. And for giving them a figure, Spain in 2017 brought only six cases before the Court of Strasbourg and not all of them were convicts, while Italy, Germany or France, Italy took 37...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u9	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u10	... Germany 16 or France 12, which says a lot about the democratic quality of our rule of law. And this law that we are discussing here today also contributes to that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u12	Mrs. President. Mr. Barrio, I already knew that we were going to go back to the procedure of the processing of the law in 2016. A well-known politician, a professor of constitutional law, said that when a body or a chamber begins to discuss the procedural effects, it has little to say about the substance of the question of facts. And I think that's the argument you're holding onto. In any case, you said that there were numerous warnings of illegality in that process. I will tell you that there was not a single warning of illegality on the part of any of the participants who came to this House. Not even for those who came on the proposal of the People's Party, such as the president of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country or the then superior prosecutor of the Basque Country. It is true that there are protests from certain collectives, protests and absolutely unfair criticisms, Mr Barrio, but the criticisms of individuals or collectives of the laws do not invalidate the value of the laws. If not all the legislative production of President Rajoy's governments would be invalid, because I don't remember more criticized and more answered legislative production on the street and in the academy as that of the governments of the People's Party. You wanted to slip – I don't think voluntarily – a small trap, saying that not only the articles that seek to change the proposal of law have been appealed, but the whole law, as if the appeal were already prejudged the unconstitutionality of it, when the Constitutional Court has already ruled. It was pronounced, dismissed in the mission of the appeal, its cautiously suspending only some articles of the law, which are being amended, and not the whole law. He could have done it, and he didn't. So let us not open facts that are already judged in principle. In any event, all the experts who passed through Parliament's committee before the opinion confirmed the legality, provenance and competence of the Basque Autonomous Community to give this recognition and reparation to the victims. Look, "Finding and fixing criminal acts is up to the judiciary." It's just that no one has discussed it, nor the promoters of the law in 2016, neither now nor at any time. And they do it in criminal proceedings. But this – and Mrs Mendia has perfectly explained this – must not be confused with the competences of social or health action developed by the Basque Autonomous Community and with the work within the Evaluation Committee. One thing is that the Evaluation Commission must prove certain facts, as Mrs Mendia said, in order to be able to make decisions when declaring the victims, and another very different thing is the judicial clarification of the facts, which the law is expressly denying. We have an obligation, a legal obligation, to undertake this work, to undertake this responsibility to which the People's Party does not know why it always puts itself on the side, for reasons of substance, procedural or whatever. Article 2 of the European Convention on Compensation for Victims of Violent Crime states that "persons who have suffered serious injury or damage to their health as a direct result of an intentional crime of violence" shall be compensated "even if the perpetrator cannot be prosecuted or punished". It is also recognized by international humanitarian law in UN Resolution 60147 on the rights of victims. Article 9 literally states: "A person shall be considered a victim regardless of whether the perpetrator of the rape has been identified, learned, tried or convicted". And if not, hundreds of families of victims of unclarified cases, or whose authorship is doubtful, would never have seen their rights compensated, would never have received recognition or reparation. I therefore believe that the problem is not technical; the problem is the lack of political will to do so. There is a legal mandate to address the recognition and reparation of victims. There's a moral warrant. The victims exist. Or didn't those victims exist, Mr. Barrio? Are there or are there not the victims to whom this law seeks to give recognition or reparation? Do these victims have the right or not to be recognized and redressed? And if they have it, are they from another dough? Are the victims of terrorism in another category, for example? Can you look them in the face and tell them that there are no such victims and that they do not have those rights? And if you believe that they exist and that you have those rights, with this law or with another, why don't you participate in a process of recognition or reparation? Why didn't they? If you don't want to do it in this one, why haven't you done it during the decades that you have been ruling in the Spanish state? You have been in the Presidency of the Government of Spain, why have you renounced the law enforcement, the obligations of the public authorities to the victims? The problem is not a problem of legal technique, Mr Barrio, the problem is a problem of lack of political will, lack of recognition and commitment to these victims. And in that, you have made little progress in all these years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u13	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. There was a row of showers. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Let's see, Mr. Iturrate always tries to take the discourse on these issues towards an approach contrary to the People's Party, to his theses, to his explanations... Well, I think I've clearly explained myself here. We have always told him and we have always repeated it to him, and he refuses to understand it and then uses it against him, we have always told him that we do not question, we have never done it. It looks like a lie that I'll come back with the same thing again! You have also been here for a long time to have heard all of us on this subject in many debates, and you always repeat the same to us. If we do not question the right to compensation of the victims. We've never done it. If we do not say or refuse to be compensated, of course not. No, we don't deny it. What do we do? What do we do? That's what you say "legal technical issues," no, "legal technical issue," no; legal, constitutional, constitutional amparo issues. And if we don't, it's that nobody does, Mr. Iturrate, and that's why we have that obligation. Mrs Mendia, surely there are formulas for this purpose that we have on the table, which you have made the approach in this way. I am sure that there are formulas in relation to the victims of crimes, in relation to human rights violations, that there will be, but we have seen that this is not the instrument. But why? Because we have identified, from our point of view, someone will clarify in their moment whether we are right or not, but we have identified and that is why we have opposed. Don't you? Because we have highlighted the difficulty this text has, and is not baladí, the legal errors, and they are not baladí. Article 14 is not understood. You don't understand. The amendment to article 14 is that it is not understood within the text, it is not understood, and it cannot be said "suspension points" and "the rest remains as it is". No, no, that cannot be said in a text of these characteristics. And also, because the Committee on Evaluation has questioned us. Because this change to us does not solve the doubts of that moment. And the process of knowing the facts. Well, the subject of "clarification of facts" as a definition disappears, but the whole law is plagued with "knowledge of facts" and "research of facts". That is, that is the fundamental element. In other words, there is a legal opposition to this bill, as there was to the previous bill. Look, Mrs Mendia, and you also said that there was a debate at the end of last parliamentary term. Look, there was no debate, you won't remember very well how the procedure and procedure was in relation to the analysis of the bill. The bill entered at the end of the legislature and here the roll, in that case of the Bureau, and the roll of the majority of the parliamentary groups, did not have, nor what is usually normal, the analysis of the amendments, an extension of amendments – they are complicated texts legally – a serene analysis, a paper work... The deadlines were simplified and everything ran smoothly. Somehow, as you want to do in this one. Well, we will see what the will is once it is taken into consideration, whether the legislative procedure is respected a little more than in that case. But yes, Mrs Mendia, you read Article 14, read it again, and you will realize that something is failing there in a clear way. Nor has Mrs Mendia said anything to me, because I think it would have been a good time to tell me what you think of the protests, the legal position, also trade union or also professional, in relation to those who have made a protest recently, right? And every day we are seeing it in connection with this amendment, with Law 12/2016, but also with this proposed law. What do you think of the reservations that the state security forces and bodies, through associations or unions, and the main groups of victims of terrorism are also making in relation to this circumstance, even some Ertzaintza union. I'd like to know your opinion, because I think it's relevant too, it's qualitatively relevant, and you haven't told us anything. We do make them ours, we understand that they are silent, because they manifest concerns that are in accordance with the law. They express concerns that are in accordance with the law, the Constitution and, in this regard, we have also tried to explain ourselves earlier on this issue. Mr Iturrate, well, yes, in that disqualifying technique, at the end of the debates is the disqualification towards the People's Party, towards its positions. Mr Iturrate is irritated that we have a legal position, a constitutional position, but that is no excuse to accuse us that we do not know what we do not want to do, or do not know what we do not do, I do not know what we are not going to do. No, no, that's not true! Because when we have opposed any of its initiatives, in this case, or in the previous case through the Government, we have done so justifiably, on the basis and, moreover, the reason has been given for the establishment of remedies and legal framework in relation to the neutralization and challenge of any of the articles of that law. I mean, we've been right somehow and we're still having it, surely, because what's here is a modification on a iter. And besides, you were one of the protagonists in the previous legislature in which there was no debate on that law which, in theory, was going to be in the search for consensus, in which the deadlines were shortened, in which there was no paper, in which no further period of amendments was allowed... You did not ask the government speed to preserve – you are a parliamentarian, you were in the Bureau – the parliamentary procedure in a more essential way. No, you have complied with the Government's order to pass this law as it comes and point. That is to say, in that sense, I believe, that the one who has failed and the one who has had little respect for Parliament, in that case, is you; I have endeavoured to make arguments and, once again, you have failed the truth, because you remain with what you want. You said that in the hearing process of what was Law 12/2016 here there were considerations of many kinds; don't simplify, don't simplify, because that someone doesn't say exactly what you say you had to say, doesn't mean that it wasn't and that someone spoke very clearly in relation to the legal problems of that law. You forget what you want. In addition, there were two reports in that law, in the background and in the documentation of that bill, one from the Ministry of Justice and one from the Ministry of the Interior, which referred to the possible unconstitutionality of those legal requirements. I mean, Mr. Iturrate, be a little broader in your explanations, because it is quite clear that you are not right when those who appeared here put serious reservations on the legality or the problems that that law was going to bring about. In any case, we have to end up saying that a praiseworthy idea can become something perverse. We do not want something that is laudable to have difficulties that make him anti-legal or that make him unconstitutional; we will have to look for formulas, we are politicians, we are parliamentarians, there is also the Congress of Deputies to look for these formulas. There are new majorities, I think they can be exercised. In that sense, I urge you to reflect on what we understand to be an error, in this case of the law. We will deal with it and discuss it, we will present our amendment. In any case, our position is clear. I explained it. And legally, we base it on the lack of constitutional accommodation of this proposed law that you present to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u15	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Now that the discussion is over, we will go to the vote, whether we consider the legal proposition or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the country, 48; the contrary, 9; the whites, 0; Abstations, 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u16	So we consider the legal proposition. Next, we'll go to the vote. Together represent the Podemos team. The word is yours, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. President Urkullu, counselors, members of the legislature, all good days. A lot of words and little stuff. That's what happened here today, after all. Little Mami, why? Where is the key against this law? I'll tell you where the key is. In defending the interests of the Spanish State or of the Spanish State, the powers of security, whether parapolic services, mercenaries, or others under the command of the Common-wealth, advanced crimes. And these actions had some consequences, and these consequences are victims. Mr. Barrio, how do you look at me? And don't...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u18	It's the vote, please. It's the explanation of your vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u19	I'm sorry. I'll only tell you to talk to these people. And I want to tell you what we think: why. First of all, I advance that our party will have no obstacle in this new road which is opening. Nay, when we have spoken to victims, we are certain that they would desire to have a law which will give them legal security. Therefore, though short, we cannot forget that what we place in value is a law, which we have never had before. There's another important argument. I mean: institutions and societies are in debt to these victims and we can't let them down. For years they have been forgotten, and for many people they have been almost invisible. This society has moral amputations, different moral amputations. Some are exposed and others are confessed, and others are not. Unfortunately. We must therefore, in this long race, conquer their rights, and this law, no doubt, is a small conquest in this way, so that our end may be regarded by all the victims in the future, confessed, and possessed the same rights. Second reflection. We know that men who have suffered the waters of human rights under political violence, but this confession and observation must proceed from the hand of justice and truth, which is precisely the privations we discern in this law. I mean: That the truth of the victims and the rights of justice are not guaranteed. The composition of the present Constitutional Court is probably unjelieved. Finally, we advance to correct you, especially to encourage the right of truth necessary in the right of right. We'll see what will be accepted and, according to that, we'll decide the meaning of our vote, but we'll get one thing straight: we have many dangers to repeat our history, and we don't want it. This is why we have to work on prevention, and our work will be directed so that these kinds of subversions of human rights will not be repeated again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. EHGG rep. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u21	Do I have a word? Yeah? Thank you, Mr. President. There's a classic movie, which reminds me of today's debate, the incredible man who's drowsy. This law was approved two and a half years ago, and it has not been introduced in force, but we are here reforming that law. Why? This law, by which the state had confiscated it in an unlawful and arbitrary manner, was approved by this officer, and protected by the same men, who had now reduced it to pieces. There is a problem in connection with the fact that the victims of the state, terrorism, or police violence, will be less protected than the other victims. I re-establish the will and determination of the Combat in the defence of all the rights of all the victims, in the defence of the rights of equality, but, alas, we see, while some of the victims insist upon the anxiety of what has happened, others are scorned and softened. I understand more and more why this law is called the law of the victims of the country. These victims, it seems, have not suffered a violation of the serious human rights; they have not suffered the watering of physical, moral integration, or the violation of the rights of life; they have suffered but a slight abuse, and from this point of view they are denied the regeneration which they deserve. A recognition always to the low, because while the victims of ETA are offered any expectation of clarification, those of the State are removed even that term, that term from the previous text that was adopted in this Parliament. While the victims of ETA are given a prosecutor to reopen cases, the perpetrators of the State are guaranteed that their cases are closed and prescribed; they are told: "quiet, no one will bother you in your impunity". They are given the assurance that they will not be persecuted, they are offered safe conduct in the face of their very grave responsibilities. This brushing of the law has sought to appease and appease associations of State bodies and security forces rather than to better repair their victims; it has shown more proximity to the perpetrators than to those who suffered their most serious violations. In this management, the honour of State offenders has been more concerned than the dignity of their victims. And with this law, if it was a palm tree before, today it is even clearer that it will be tortured but there are no torturers, that it is executed but the executioners are unpunished and covert. That they're killed by state security forces and bodies, but the killers are still loose, and as we all know, they're rewarded, decorated and promoted. Frankly, I miss a stronger government institutional response against these police associations, security forces and state unions, including the Ertzaintza, which yesterday expressed themselves invoking the rights of some victims to deny them to others, precisely to the victims they themselves victimized. I miss standing on the wall in the face of those threats to appeal, challenge, block this law again. Imagine the scandal, if the negationist positions of the existence of some victims or of the rights they have come from another sign, but, in fact, it seems to weigh no more solisaviantar, not to provoke national police, civilian guards and Ertzaintza. Under the apology for strengthening legal guarantees and strengthening constitutionality, the main argument that led us to abstain in the previous legal process, that is, that there is no way for the victims of the State to obtain justice and that they must continue to fight against wind and tide, against all the elements for their rights to be recognized. Today, the sense of vote appears to be deeply upset. The vote in favour is not to the law but to its reduction; and the opposite vote is not to its reduction but to the existence of a law that protects the victims of the State, not to the fact that they have an institutional remedy. And there, in how the vote is deeply upset, EH Bildu abstains, because even though we oppose this law to decafeinate and undermine even more, it weighs on us the need for the victims of the State to begin to be recognized, even under those absolutely unfair, discriminatory and adverse conditions, that we can begin to give truth to so many victims today forgotten. I'm done. Many victims expect this law to open a crevice for which they can begin to be seen and recognized. We will not disappoint this expectation, we cannot close that path by responsibility, but by making clear what our frontal opposition is in substance and form to the law that is presented to us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u22	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Third point in theme list: "Grow up the propose as a parlamentary team to control the use of bet-makers and carnivore machines. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Blanco, representing the EH team, has the word to introduce and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u23	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. To-day we would like to add the reality of unsubstantial attentions to the table, the attitudes rising, the 21st. because the drugs of the century are as dangerous as in addiction to certain subversive conducts. When I was preparing text to defend this legal proposal, it occurred to me, as we say in the ordinary manner, that the Aditation Law, and the Overstanding Minding of the West, came into my head. Well, at that moment, as soon as it was time to grow up, the spokesman agreed enough. 2014-2015. lets go for a year. During the past few years the cases of hearing and exact ludpathy have been largely raised, and this elevation has been observed in so many fashions: online As I said, when we worked the Adventure Act, we didn't have the data we've got today. In fact, at the moment of the execution of this law, when we asked for a show of experts, some representatives of the Asaljian Society came to the committee to give their opinion by order of the EH Collectors. In this phenomenon, associations will play a good-line game So EH Collect thinks the importance of this subject and the rapid developments that are going on require direct change of perspective and activity. Hence we have brought this initiative into two definite measures, principally directed to the two minor measures. For if there are cases of ludopathy among grown-ups to worry, let's imagine what ludopathy brings between minors. We want to focus on this field: minor and addictive games. We know that in casinos or gambling houses the prohibition of minor access is guaranteed. This does not mean that this prohibition is fulfilled, but this is a matter of inspection, as has been said, because this prohibition is guaranteed. But what happens in the online game In our view, underage boys and girls are accessing these game modes too easily today. Betting today is simple, accessible and, worst of all, not stigmatized. Pathological gambling is not an impulse control disorder, but an addiction. In the game there is dependence, in the game there is tolerance and withdrawal syndrome. In the case of sports betting, they are accessible because despite the fact that there are extensive premises for the installation of these terminals, it is true that the largest number of bets are made in hotel rooms, in bars. It is accessible because in these establishments there is no control for children to use – if there is no control, let's push it – and because we have more and more terminals of this type around us. In 10 years, 2,100 machines have been installed in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa and, as I said, more than half are located in bars. It is therefore clear that these types of machines are accessed too easily today, and let us not forget that in many cases these machines are the gateway to ludopathy. Nor can we forget that betting is not seen badly today, it is not stigmatized, because society is not aware of the risks involved in such conduct. Today society gives very little importance to betting on your team, among friends, on any machine, but that tomorrow can lead to an addiction, to a serious problem. We are not aware that we are facing addictive behaviors, as I said; we are not aware of their harm, nor are we facing a public health problem. I know that the Security Advisor is following the debate carefully, but we believe that it is necessary here to involve other departments, education, and health, of course, because we believe that a public health problem. And if you are not aware of this reality, then let us do our best to become aware. Let's stop at a moment to visualize the messages that appear in the cigarette boxes. Absolutely explicit pictures where they tell us: "Smoking Kills". We all identify tobacco as a harmful element and they also remind us of it. Anyone who wants to buy tobacco from a vending machine does it through a remote control activation, and if you are older, because you can do it with total freedom, but being aware of what we buy. Let's look at this picture now. It's a sports betting machine. "If you're underage, don't accept the challenge." It doesn't say, "Playing can create addiction," "Playing is bad." It says, "It's a challenge." He says just the opposite. What more do minors want today that we put a challenge on them on the table? It's funny that we have this kind of message in our bars. Ladies and gentlemen, in article 50th of the Adkinion Law, the article that determines the boundaries of the random bide of games, there are certain driven measures: "a" to make sure that the principles of responsible games are applied: "1. It will be essential to allow users to give clear and accurate information on the gaming-tables and the hosting establishments with computer machines to know that the game is not a source or a source of money; that is to say, an opportunity for leisure is only a chance of leisure, and that, therefore, it must be carefully controlled and sober. This will make the player's attention available, and the notices and notes will be placed in order to see them all right." After reading this article of the law, do you think this bill is appropriate? I'd say not. No. Nay, I dare say that the law which is established is not taking place. It is plain, therefore, that we ought to establish the measures of control, especially in reference to the minors, and besides this we must make a pedagogy to be conscious of the evils of these conduct. As you have seen, we propose right measures, clear and possible measures. On one hand, we're asking if you're going to make an investigation in order to establish control measures for betting machines or coin-eaters. And in this field we have an example: the same system used for buying tobacco. The power to activate machines, so exactly the popular Party put the same system in Murzia two years ago. We ask that consideration be given to the possibility that these slot machines and sports betting machines located in bars will be activated through a control, exactly as is done with the tobacco vending machines. Thanks to this measure, we would ensure that minors do not easily access these terminals today. This may be either another way: We're not closed. We have suggested that the model is established in society, but all this can be considered and proposed. We do not, as has been said, refer to the necessity of the use of authority in another proposition than our own. And on the other hand, pedagogy. To make bets, whether the use of coiners or carnivorouss, is very important in our opinion, especially in colleges and colleges, because it is not at the present day, and because our young men are to know the effects of these conduct, the damages of ludopathies, and others of them. Also, let's not forget that advertising campaigns to hook up boys and girls are extremely aggressive. They bombard us with ads that encourage us to make bets, ads starring famous characters or referents in the world of sport, feeding that binomial bets-sports, bets-idol. During some live broadcasts, gambling platforms or bets are announced, and on social networks from official accounts of elite sports teams are encouraged to bet. For this reason, among other reasons, during the last six years the number of people affected by the game has multiplied by four. Sports bets is the game that has increased the most. We have a survey. According to the latest CAPV Survey of Addictions, from 2012 to 2017 the frequency of sports betting practices has increased from 1.6 to 7.3. Ladies and gentlemen, we must end this tendency. We believe that we must establish proper measures for the sake of the attitudes and conduct of society to vary, and to prevent the games or pathological games which may cause problems in a specific manner. We have a public responsibility and the problem is getting away from our hands. As I have said, we have brought in two definite and possible measures. Now we hope they're both approved. With those groups which support the government, it has not been possible to obtain a middle course, because at the present moment their point of view is more general, but we shall have a chance to make an agreement by other enterprises, and in this case, I would ask you to abstain from it. On the other hand, Podemos has introduced the correction of the party together, and although we share the terms or arguments which appear in this correction, yet we think that we must place the first point in a general legal and legal frame, and that it is not at present the proper day to do so, we agree with the second point, and are ready to insert ourselves into the other proposition of our own law. And we're gonna order the Popular team to vote for it. Since you have not shown any correction, we believe that we agree in principles, and if any doubt has been left unsolved, I shall try to answer for the second round. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. In today's debate it is up to us to address an initiative that affects the control and use of betting machines and slot machines. From Elkarrekin We can already show our concern last Friday, when we asked the Security Advisor about the measures that will be put in place from her department and from the Basque Government to protect the most vulnerable population, mainly girls, boys and young people, in the face of the increase of rooms, salons and spaces for the game, as well as sports betting machines and slot machines in different hotel venues. In our intervention we put on the table data that we count today, although it is necessary to carry out studies and diagnoses of the situation updated, the figures that are handled are devastating and the panorama desolating. We are seeing a marked increase in the number of bookshops in recent years, and with this the number of people with problems with ludopathy in Euskadi, which already stands at 43,000, is increasing especially among young people between 18 and 25 years of age, where, in the last four years, it has risen from 6% to 25%. The data also show that 26% of the Basque population is an active player. That is, you've spent money at least once a week, over the past year, on some kind of gambling. And in this scenario of disorbited figures, from the associations and collectives that fight against ludopathy and the additions derived from the game in Euskadi, warn of a situation that exposes people, especially the younger ones, to a danger from which it is very difficult to get out. Ludopathy is a disorder recognized by the World Health Organization; its consequences are alarming, not only for the person suffering from it, but for their family and professional environment. These same groups point out that the number of people affected is increasing who are approaching to ask for help, and that they are players much younger than before. They also report that young people under the age of 18 to 25 have already arrived, with problems of addictions in sports betting, as well as many parents and mothers of minors, to ask for help, when they find tickets in the pockets of their pants. The proliferation of the offer of the online game To this it should also be added that in Euskadi it is allowed to install sports betting machines in the bars. Thus, the owners of the salons rent a place and give the bar to a hotelier, better if it is a bar of those of all life, charging him a symbolic rent. The idea is that it is a bar with machines and bets, although in reality the owner demands popular prices, shares with cheap beers, the best pintxo-pot in the area, breakfasts and a wide schedule, because somehow they want to spend as much time there as possible, even having losses, because the business is not the bar, but the game. The ultimate goal is to turn the bets into something social, into something normalized: if you can integrate the bets into people's social life, then the rest comes alone. And this is something that we are very concerned about. In addition, the main concern of associations and psychologists who fight addictions lies in young people's access to bets and the possibility that they become uncontrolled players. The kids under the age of 18 enter gambling houses and bars with machines, and no one tells them anything. Measures must be taken to control this situation and to explore the possibilities for minors not to have unlimited access to these terminals. At the doors of the schools there are people who distribute advertising from companies and sports betting houses, and as we have already reiterated in our speech, it is not difficult to find these establishments near a school. Faced with this situation, groups and associations of neighbors go, for a change, ahead of the institutions and have already manifested themselves in neighborhoods such as Judimendi or Txagorritxu, here in Gasteiz, before the avalanche of machines and betting and openings of play halls very close to schools and children's parks. For example, the Txagorritxu Neighbors Association, following the recent opening of a playroom in the neighborhood last August, has filed complaints as the playroom has been located very close to one of the ikastolas. They are concerned that children can normalize this type of leisure; they do not like that the playroom has been installed in the neighborhood, and less that it has done so in front of an educational center. The fact that boys and girls see the playroom every day from the school yard can lead to the normalization of this type of premises and people coming to them, which is worrying. That is why one of the two points in the amendment we have tabled concerns the possibility of limiting the deregulated increase in sports betting machines and slot machines in the vicinity of schools, cultural, youth and similar centres that may require protection from the personal conditions of their users. It doesn't seem like a disproportionate measure to us. It seems to us a concrete measure that can solve and help young people, and the boys and girls of Euskadi, do not see the game as something completely normalized. To this face-to-face game you have to add the Internet, which does not rest and is active 24 hours and in which, moreover, the teenager, if he gets access, enjoys a complete anonymity, and it is difficult not to succumb to the omnipresence of the advertising of the game online click tablet Surely all of you have seen an announcement starring a Basque-born presenter with a long history and prestige on state television, who gives up his image so that thousands of young people will go to bet houses, and who with repetitive and aggressive language incites to bet almost compulsively. These announcements lead hundreds of people to become ludopaths and, of course, their families to fall into misfortune. In addition, these companies are the main sponsors of many sports teams. 19 of the 20 teams in the first division football league have some deal with betting companies for their sponsorship, as happens in other sports, such as basketball. In addition, the sports facilities and stadiums of the Basque teams are full of posters and ads of betting houses, which directly incite sports fans to bet, without warning of the danger this poses. Looks like it's more profitable business than ethics. In children's hours, however, sportsmen and no one are allowed to promote alcohol or tobacco, however, with the game there is much wider sleeve. That is why, apart from some actions which we believe are outside the competence of the Basque Government in the area of advertising regulation, it is in its hands, and that is why we ask it at the first point of our amendment, to establish restrictions on advertising, promotion and sponsorship of companies linked to sports betting in the public media of the Basque Autonomous Community, in institutional activities that are publicly funded or are carried out using public space and in sports grounds or stadiums, as well as in the clothing of Basque sports teams. In addition, one of the requests of associations and collectives fighting against ludopathy and addictions in Euskadi is that more awareness-raising campaigns be launched and that information on the negative consequences of gambling be included in school campaigns on addictions and, of course, coordinated with associations and collectives in the sector. It's important for Elkarrekin We can move forward in this area and allocate more resources to campaigns that are aware of the negative consequences of the game. For us, this initiative is an opportunity for us to defend the rights of the most vulnerable people to fall into the negative consequences of gambling, through prevention, and the implementation of small control measures and sensitivity campaigns aimed at society against, once again, the economic interests of some companies in the sector for profit and profit regardless of the harmful consequences of irresponsible use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We share with the proposer of the initiative, with Mrs Blanco, the concern about addictions, the impact of addictions on people's behaviour and, therefore, it seems reasonable to us that as many times as we see fit we can discuss this. It is an obligation of the public authorities to deal with addictions, to prevent them, to establish those measures of prevention, of caution, of information, of advice, of care so that people do not fall into addictions. With particular emphasis and with particular interest, this must refer to minors, that is to say, the risk population that exists in the Basque Country, as in all societies, which is in those people who have been banned from gambling, mainly because of this addiction, but also in those who can access for the first time because they are seeing behaviors in society that are inviting them to do so. I believe that the public authorities are the vanguard of work in the face of addictions, but they are not the only ones who are called to do so. I think it is very difficult to solve the approach to an addiction of gambling, or consumption of a substance, or of any other kind, if at the place of greatest reference and influence of young people, which is the family, there are such behaviors. When one is young, he probably has little influence on that young man the Official Gazette of the Basque Country and, however, those behaviors he sees around him have a lot of impact. Therefore, the fight against addictions is a responsibility of the public authorities, but it is also an exercise of self-criticism of society as a whole, that we have to, with our particular behavior, help not to be seen by young people as often you see the game a salvation, a fun, a stimulus, in short, behaviors that are very common in our streets daily and much more on specified dates. Therefore, by sharing with the proposer the need to continue to deepen on this, we must also warn that in the Basque Country for many years there are tools, instruments that allow the fight against addictions, in this case without substances, and also as is already known with substances. There are laws, there are decrees, there are orders. The Health Commission was also recently held, which raised, among other things, resolutions in this regard within the four-year plan to combat addictions, from which that debate was held until 2021, that is to say, there are tools. A few days ago, in October, on the 16th, the Basque Government adopted a decree constituting the Basque Observatory of the Game, and that observatory, among other things, will allow us to address and deal with all the tasks that are being dealt with here today and which are reflected in the will of the majority, not to mention all those present, both of those who have taken the initiative, as well as of the amendments, and of the non-amendants. I believe that the fight against addiction is a unitary element in this House, it is a cross-cutting policy; I do not think it has a certain ideology, but it is part of a unity, of a consensus, which I hope will continue to be maintained in time, beyond how this debate is resolved. I believe that the main differences between what the author of the initiative proposes and what we have presented to us are whether she is going into concrete tasks right now, whether she is giving a deadline or moving from the observatory into a more general vision, touching all the fields and reaching those particular concrete measures that later from that observatory, with the attendance of different departments and with the attendance of experts, create opportune. I think that basically we have the difference there, a difference that also has its approach in another initiative and in another scenario that will also see this issue more within the field of health soon. Well, I think that, as I was saying, we have tools, we have concerns, we have unity and consensus about being able to deal primarily with people who are more at risk and more vulnerable to addictions and substances, to gambling, to gambling, above all these kinds of invitations to a happy life that normally leads to a life of frustration and a life of failure. And therefore, the public responsibility is to be able to care for it, to avoid it, to be able to prevent it, and in that I believe we are all. I therefore believe that regardless of how this is resolved, regardless of how the votes take place, I believe that we must preserve that unitary spirit, that unitary work which sooner or later, in a longer or shorter time frame, in a more specific or more generalistic way, I believe will bear very similar fruits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u28	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Miss Othello, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Today we have one of the two initiatives which have been introduced to the "EH Shades" in the Chamber of Investigations without substance and, more accurately, to discuss the area of the game. It is true, as has been pointed out here today, that we are witnessing an emerging reality in terms of the new behaviors and patterns associated with digital technologies that have their clear scope in the game as well. The Internet and other communication and information technologies have made gambling a major development, thus emerging new gaming platforms, whose options are very varied and are also constantly evolving. The consequence of this facility of access is that it is becoming more and more frequent in the game of young men. The most common game is the sport's finest, especially the new online. In this sense, the last prevalence study carried out by the Public Health and Drug Administration of the Basque Government in the 2017 addiction survey already shows, as Mrs. Blanco pointed out, that although sports betting is less frequent than lottery or quinielas, it is true that they are the ones that have been increasing the most in recent years. There's a lot of motivements in the game. It's usually a way to socialize the game. Online That is why it is certainly not possible to avoid the risk of these games generating addictions. In this sense, we agree with the rest of the groups on the need to move forward in strengthening prevention in this field, in strengthening attention to substanceless addictions, to these new behavioral addictions. It is true, and it has also been said here today, that the Basque Government has been taking steps to adapt to these new realities for some time now. In fact, the Law on Integral Care of Addictions and Drug Addictions is incorporated into Basque law with a vocation of integrity in addition to drug addictions of addictions to substances, behavioral addictions or addictions without substance, being considered as such to the pathological play, ludopathy, and excessive behaviors in the use of digital technologies. We also have a new addiction plan, to which he has also referred earlier, as an instrument for planning, planning and coordinating the strategies and interventions that are being developed in the area of addictions in Euskadi, and it also refers specifically to specific actions and objectives in relation to addictions without substance. We also have a very detailed specific game regulation that has been adapting to a sector like the game that is constantly evolving, a regulation that addresses the activity of the game in a comprehensive and systematic way, establishing the basic rules on which the management of these activities has to be based. In this sense, the General Regulation of the Game has incorporated all the rules into a single text which consolidates and gives consistency to the regulation and updates it according to the current regulatory requirements, adapting to the evolution of the market, to technological changes and to the emergence of new channels of play. A very extensive and detailed regulation that includes specific regulations for each mode of play; a regulation that also establishes quantitative limits as to the maximum number of authorizations, machines, elements or systems of play, authorized premises, distances between premises... It also specifically regulates the advertising, sponsorship and promotional activities of companies based in Euskadi. In addition, it develops and promotes measures that, in order to prevent situations of problem gambling or pathological gambling, are covered by the Act on Addictions and Drugs, measures to protect especially minors and the most vulnerable groups, and to safeguard the rights of the participants in the game, for which the Statute regulates the Players and promotes responsible gambling and corporate social responsibility. Euskadi is also at the forefront of the state as regards the control and monitoring of the proper development of the game's own activities. In fact, the Ertzaintza has a specific police unit dedicated to this issue, the Play and Entertainment Unit. And precisely because of the importance of this evil, the control and surveillance on this particular issue, and as far as minors are concerned specifically, the Department of Safety and Security is articulating mechanisms for collaboration and criteria for action, both within the Ertzaintza itself and in collaboration with the local police regarding possible violations by the owners of gambling venues or who have gambling machines. Having said that, and while it is true that although we have, as I say, a concrete and detailed regulation of the gambling sector and that in addition non-substantial addictions are specifically incorporated into prevention and care policies, we share – as I said before too – the full concern for this new reality. A complex and changing reality that requires reorienting public policies of prevention and care. There's no doubt about it. But we believe that, by agreeing with the principles that inspire your initiative, Mrs Blanco, we must address this reality by analysing from the global point of view and ending in particular, not the other way around, as we believe this initiative is. Basically we can agree, we agree, but not in the form, in the method of achieving an objective in which we all certainly share. And in this regard, Mrs Blanco, we cannot support the initiative you have presented here today. We believe that before taking concrete steps with the adoption of a specific measure, it is more appropriate and inescapable to carry out a prior analysis of the situation, which will enable us to better assess the type of action that needs to be implemented more effectively for the objectives that are being pursued. We have to be aware that there are multiple channels of access to bets, games, there are many possibilities of practicing them through different channels. It is a reality, as we say, broad and complex. And in this regard, if we take the path of addressing the possible option of a concrete measure, without first making a detailed analysis of the reality, we are convinced that it will not be possible to tackle the problem in the best way. It may be possible to stop access to a specific channel, such as machines, but there will continue to be other open channels, which are certainly more accessible and easier especially for young people, with the skill they have so enormous in the use of new technologies. And we will not have succeeded in effectively stopping access to these new ways of playing. That is why it seems to us that it is necessary to have before us a clear knowledge of the situation, of what is the reality in relation to the game, and that is why the amendment of the whole that we are presenting at the moment to its proposal for a law goes in this line, in the desirability of drawing up a study on the gambling situation in Basquedi, with particular regard to its condition for minors, so that, on the basis of this analysis, it is possible to draw up an action plan containing concrete measures, but better targeted, in order to advance the development of a responsible game in relation to these new forms of play that young people face today, but the whole of society as a whole. In the meantime, we have no doubt that the Basque Government will continue as it has done so far, carrying out different actions and activities aimed at raising awareness and informing about responsible gambling. Nothing more, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u30	Thank you, Miss Otalora. A group that hasn't issued any corrections to the popular group. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. We are starting from a common point all of us who have spoken in this matter, Mrs Blanco. Indeed, gambling can become an addiction for many people, an addiction with harmful consequences for health, for heritage, for personal, family, professional or social relationships of many people. That danger is there, it's on the table, and it's not a matter that's controlled, otherwise, it's growing. Ludopathy is growing and it is therefore necessary that we take measures to protect the most vulnerable, in this case, who are our minors, our young people. And we have to take action. So far we've all agreed. The solutions, I do not share either those proposed by you or those proposed by the groups that support the Government for a simple reason. I believe, Mrs Blanco, that you mix different issues and completely different situations. I understand that one thing is that you call recreational machines, slot machines, and another is betting machines. And the impact on youth is completely different. The control measures similar to those used for tobacco machines, I sincerely believe they would be a small patch for a problem that is much bigger. A young person cannot buy a cigarette box or a bottle of vodka through the mobile phone from a company based in Zimbabwe without any kind of control. That measure, which would serve in the case of other addictions, to tobacco, to alcohol, in compliance with the current law, I think it will not go anywhere because the problem is not possibly just that type of machine that is in the establishments. I mean the betting machines. I believe that slots really affect young people less and attract them frankly little, because the game that really attracts them is the sports bet, that's what's fashionable between them and that's what's doing a lot to our youth. And that is why I understand that serious measures must indeed be taken and, although we are not going to share the proposal that brings us today, we are doing so with the calmness that they have opened or reopened a debate in which we are certainly going to reach unanimous agreements in this House to take measures, possibly even of a legal nature, more forceful and more effective in the face of a problem that is growing and is profoundly affecting our youth. Indeed, it's fashionable to bet, and they're putting it through our eyes, but the problem is not just the betting machine that's in hotel rooms. I believe that the problem is in the game through the internet, or the game directly through mobile phones, or computers, not just machines in hotels with easy access. That is regulated, and as it is regulated, what we have to do is demand that the current law be complied with. That is why I do not share, Mrs Otalora, the proposal we are making from the Government. Indeed, it is a solution for other initiatives and for an overall debate, but what we have to do is to demand compliance with the current law, and I am therefore glad that the Security Adviser is present in the House at the moment, because what is actually not working is the monitoring and control measures. More needs to be done, more needs to be done, because, in fact, the legislation is not being complied with, and neither is it going to be complied with even if we use remote controls on such machines at the hotel premises. The irresponsible owner of the hotel premises who sells tobacco to minors, who sells alcohol to minors, will continue to allow, with or without command, minors to play; the responsible owner does not allow it and closes his door to minors so that they do not carry out practices for which they are not authorized by their age. That is why we are against the two positions, both those of the groups supporting the Government and that of the proponent of the initiative. And I have to say to Mrs García that I do not share the addition that you are making to us either, because I believe that those measures that we can agree on, but which have little to do with this specific situation that Mrs Blanco has put us on the table. I do not think that we should limit the rights of certain hoteliers where they have their premises, because they have a sports centre, an educational centre or a school close to them or far away. I do not think we should limit the rights of hoteliers. The limitation of playrooms is already established in the law and it is necessary to maintain a number of distances from certain points or between the playrooms themselves, but the hotel halls have that problem, and we could do this thinking about the cities, but in the smaller localities, in our villages, it is practically impossible to comply with and adopt such measures would lead to treat in an unequal way the hoteliers, who must all have the same rights. And the issue of advertising, of course, is a problem, but it escapes our competences. We cannot prohibit Basque sports teams from having certain sponsorships when they are playing in leagues in which this is being allowed. We'd leave them in an unequal place. But I understand that all this has to go into a much broader debate, in which I am sure that we will reach agreement and consensus measures and that they will be adopted unanimously by the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u32	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u33	Yes, thank you again. Well, that's too bad. It seems that we all agree on the diagnosis, we agree that action must be taken. It is a pity, because, as I said in the first speech, all the groups have worked since the consensus, because we are aware of the problem we have, but, well, in this case, our GNP today is not going to be approved. Both Mr Prieto and Mrs Otalora were telling us that there are already mechanisms, that we already have tools, but we will have to think why they do not work as they should be working, because, according to this prevalence survey, there are more and more hooked children. Therefore, it is not being done entirely well and I have to remind you that the Addictions Act was passed in 2016 and is still undeveloped. There has been no more than a decree on structural development, but it has not come to the bottom of what that law contains. It's undeveloped. So, of course, we have to take action, general, and we share it; in fact, we have a registered non-law proposition to talk about this in general. But you can do studies, we can see what reality we have with more concreteness, because there will be data, we will see what measures are taken... But it's just so clear what's happening with these machines, it's so easy to see, it's so easy to see. A sports betting machine in a premises is accessed with complete freedom; minors are prohibited from betting by law. Are we guaranteeing it? No, no, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo told us about the premises, it is true that in his hands it is that a minor bets or not, but it is often, when a premises is full, because it is easy, it is relatively easy for several people to go to the machine and without any control measures as they access them. It may be a patch, as Mr Ruiz de Arbulo said, but look, surely you, like me, when the wheel of the car is punctured, we change it, even if we have to pass the ITV. Well, here we have a punctured wheel, because it's clear and notorious what's going on. Let's take action. It's easy. Let's study it, at least study it. Then we'll pass the ITV. And I'm surprised, because the government is studying this possibility, it's studying it. I don't make it up. Look, I'm going to quote you the source so you can read it quietly: Chain Being Vitoria And then Mr Urrialde told us: "In this sense, from the Basque Government, they consider that the awareness campaigns they carry out every year in institutes in Euskadi, in which they warn of the dangers of falling into an addiction to gambling, are more effective." Well, according to the director of Games and Shows, you have to tell Mrs Beltrán de Heredia that the Ertzaintza will stop us from fineing, that they will not put radars on the roads, that they will not put mobile radars, and that they will do awareness campaigns, because they are more effective, according to the director of security, right? EH Bildu has always bet on a responsible game, he has always bet on pedagogy, on reducing risks and damage, but in this case we believe that we must put, not bans, limitations; we believe that we must limit, because the problem, as I said, is clear. We also agree that legal measures must be taken, but, as I said, we have a registered non-law proposal to talk about all that and more. You can talk about the development of the law, you can talk about addiction plans. What is clear is that today we have a clear reality: prevalence surveys are telling us that we have to turn on the red pilots, that we have to do something. It is a simple, transitory measure, if you want, but absolutely feasible, and we believe that by this measure, because we could, I do not know if to change reality, but it is true that we could avoid that minors, as they are today hooked, is a pity, not only for them, for families, for all that this entails. It is a pity, as I said, that this agreement that has always existed in this House has been broken, but, well, we will see what happens in the future. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u35	Thank you, ma'am. The truth is that I am confused, because listening to the interventions of the rest of the groups, we all agree that there is a problem, there is a reality, that is also increasing, that we all want to address and that we all want to solve, that also affects in a specific and much more serious way young people and boys and girls in Euskadi... However, we will not reach an agreement. And we are not going to agree because the initiative put forward by Mrs Blanco, which we are going to support and which, of course, we accept that our amendment is voted on by points, involves a number of concrete measures, which you have decided that, despite agreeing, you will not support them. And I mean you, I mean Mrs Otalora and Mr Prieto, because Mr Arbulo agrees with everything, he doesn't like anything, but he doesn't propose anything either. It has not been clear to me what you want then, because it is true that there is another registered initiative, much broader and much deeper, where we will be able to debate within a legal framework and where we will be able to bring all the groups into a subject that I understand that on the basis of which it does have consensus, but that then when it comes to carrying out a series of measures, there is a lack of political will that really surprises me. In addition, the amendment tabled by the parties supporting the Government, in my view, is based, once again, on generalities, on a lack of concreteness. Once again, I do not know why, moreover, it comes out by tangent, it seeks to approve a series of vagueties of lack of (...). In his speeches I heard: "There are measures, there are laws...". Of course there are measures and there are laws, there are measures and there are laws for everything; now it is how we apply them and what is the reality that currently exists. There is a new reality, I understand that there has to be new measures that adapt to the current growth and the current situation. I think it's very simple. You are the truth that in your amendment you speak of reducing, of associated risks, but under no circumstances do you concretely, and I think you were an opportunity. The truth is, I'm sorry we can't agree on something that we all agree on on the basis of, but in reality we're not capable of. With the question of publicity. It is true that there are a number of competences that are state, it is true that there are a number of issues that are regulated, but it is also true that the Basque Government subsidizes acts with public money where a type of publicity could be limited, and there are public spaces that are financed by public money, where such publicity could be limited. I think it is sometimes very easy to stay above and not to get into the concrete, because it is not just a matter of agreement or that it is within what we parliamentary groups think, it is something that is in society, it is something that is in the collectives and that they are demanding associations of neighbors, collectives against ludopathy and other addictions. I think it was a good opportunity to really start this agreement and then on other initiatives, where you introduced Mrs Blanco or others, we can have a deep debate and a serious debate. I think we've missed a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists. Mr Price mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Miss Othello, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u37	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mrs Garcia, what way do you have to simplify reality? I think it has become very clear that we are all groups fully in agreement with the substance of this reality, of this issue, of the problem that exists, and it has become very clear what the positions of the groups supporting the Government in this particular case have been. We have said that of course we support any initiative or initiative that is focused on moving forward on this point, without any doubt, but not on how to do so. We have made it clear and we have made it clear why this particular point that we are discussing today has not been supported. Let's not simplify things. "We've missed a chance." I think the opportunity is there; the debate is on the table, we certainly have a long way to go, we are all in agreement with it, and I think we have the opportunity to do so. But not on the basis of a concrete measure that has been proposed here today, which may be better or worse than another, but in any case it is a measure that has been arbitrarily chosen, as it could have been any other just as valid. In fact, I have to tell you, Mrs. Blanco, that when I first read the initiative it seemed like one thing to me, likening it to tobacco machines, apparently it seemed like one thing that could be even simple, didn't it? But it is true that thinking a little better as it is proposed, I believe that the situation of these machines with what is a tobacco machine is at all comparable. When a person goes to a machine to buy a pack of tobacco, he will buy a product, he will do a very concrete act at a very concrete time. When a person goes to a machine of this type, he goes in an indefinite time, with indeterminate economic amounts, imprecise... This generates a multitude of difficult questions: when do you activate the machine?, when do you activate the machine, when you put the coin in, when the person is going to play a credit?, how do you prevent an older person from operating that machine and not going behind a minor to play? I want to say that in the end they are measures that can apparently seem simple, but I think that what needs to be done is a more detailed analysis of how the reality is, how the situation is, what areas can be best affected, what is failing, or, rather than failing, where it is better to strengthen the action that is being done, than to start deciding or making decisions about analysing a concrete measure without that overall overall vision. And in any case, in relation to this concrete measure, since we are talking about it, for example, in the case of betting machines, it is true, and we have said so, that it is something that is proliferating more and more, but the fact that we come to put some measure that somehow hinders people from accessing them can, apparently, be a good idea, as I say. But, of course, in practice, what is this going to mean? Surely what you're going to do is turn the habit into other areas. We have spoken here also on several occasions, the online world Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u38	Thank you, Miss Otalora. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs García, I did not have to explain myself correctly in the first speech. What we share from our group is the vision of the problem we have; what we do not share are the solutions that have been put on the table. Therefore, I do not agree with everything that has been said and with everything against it. No, no, It is simply that I do not agree with those kinds of solutions that are put on the table, either as a temporary solution or as a patch. It just goes way beyond that. It must be controlled in some way that young people fall into these kinds of addictions. That is why you have commented earlier, I think it was Mr Prieto, it would be very important to have other departments, not just security. It is a health problem and an education problem, which goes much further. Avoiding young people entering a gambling machine at a bar, we get absolutely nothing, because young people download the same app they have in the bar machine to the mobile phone and play from the mobile phone. And we can't control that with a remote control. It's a lot more complicated. It's a much more complex world. We are not going to solve anything with that, but we do have to demand surveillance and control measures. It's fundamental. In other words, the problem is not whether the machine is activated or not, the problem is that entry is being allowed not only in the hotel rooms where there are machines for young people to play, but in the playrooms themselves where entry is strictly forbidden. And he's allowing himself. How do you solve that? With surveillance and control measures. Extremizing them, making them much stronger, much more continuous and with important economic sanctions. If this system is activated we will somehow manage to alleviate that small part of the problem that we will have to tackle in other initiatives, in other studies, that although the law is very recent, the world of sports betting, the world of gambling, and especially among minors, from the year 16 to today has evolved tremendously. We must also take a look at the legislation that has been adopted in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u40	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, what we're about to vote first is the ability to add together to Podemos. He's got two points, so we'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 11. The contrary, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 17.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u41	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u42	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the original text of the EHG as a team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u43	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 36; rivals, 26; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u44	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Another proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, to maintain and improve the investment in the budgets of 2019. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr Martínnezion has the word to present and defend his initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u45	Yes, thank you. Good morning, everyone. We bring in a subject which is indispensable to guarantee the quality of our public education system today, and it is the question of education. Education structures are not normal infrastructure, they're not a sort of souptic edifices, they're substructures full of souls. They are educated in these buildings and learn that our students spend over 300,000 hours a day there, seven hours a week, five days a week. We are talking, graphically, about the envelope of our country's education system, the envelope of these educational infrastructures, which if they are safe, if they are optimal, are factors that influence and much in the education of our students. Horregatik will say bear garrantzitsuak. I'm sure those here present, if at any time we have to choose between a center with better facilities or a center with worse facilities... [[Words]] Barkatu. He said that if at any time we have to choose between a center or another, between a center with better facilities or a center with worse facilities, between a center that has a gym, that has a poorer gym or a center that has a building in heating conditions, with new windows, that, in short, has good conditions or another that has no accessibility, that has deficiencies, that has leaks or that, as happens in Sopela, there are prefabricated modules to study, surely we have doubts when it comes to making that decision. And it's normal. We all want the best for our family. It's perfectly normal, so if families can decide the most secure and best buildings and places they can choose. But, unfortunately, all families have not the incomes necessary for such a choice, and therefore we see schools, for instance, which have swimming places, and which are obliged to give classes in the pre-requisites or pre-eminent modules. And I don't know if it's a coincidence, but the first, with swimming pools, are generally private compacts, and the second is a public system. That is why the essence and purpose of this proposal was to ensure, continue to ensure, improve and also point out the shortcomings of educational infrastructures in Euskadi, that each and every educational institution in Euskadi is taught in optimal conditions, in safety and also in comfort and also in healthy conditions. Because it said that these spaces are the main environments in which regulated teaching is given and that is why the buildings, the facilities, have to be properly designed, first, but also correctly in the perfect state of use and maintenance, because they have to serve to give effective fulfillment to the right of all people to receive public and quality education. And why today? For three main reasons. First of all, because we're in November 2018 and in a month, because the planet of the underlying 2014-2018 ends and we have to make a profound evaluation of that plan. We've seen the last few years how this plan has stopped short, and in a great measure it has not been done. But I still think we need time to make a thorough evaluation and make a new plan. And maybe at the moment, you know, the department. To be working on the plan of 2019-2022 we assume that they are in it, and that we think it'll be useful to agree with the criteria, to make the plan of the new plan, and also to know how this plan is to be made. Seen, as I have said, the circumstances of the plan in effect. And thirdly, because we are involved in the discussions of the past 2019, and this preference seems possible to us. –egia da ez dogula zifra konkretu bat adostuko, bai bai plan Honen lehentasuna. Eta bear graphikoki esango dut eta gure teknikari batek esaten du –ez dakit haserretuko den ala ez berena esaten badut –, Ana Viñalsek esaten duen bezala: "Tell me what you invest in and I'll tell you what you value". And that's a little bit why we were also bringing this initiative right now. The Infrastructure Plan 2014-2018, at first, envisaged an investment of almost 255 million euros, but as Counsellor Uriarte informed us a year and a half ago, on April 5, 2017, it had to be increased by 45 million euros because there were new needs, there were elements that had not been taken into account and that had to be strengthened. And in the 2018 Budgets, in addition, a new item was included, given the needs of our educational system, of 1 million euros for patio decks. It came to say that the items, that the Udalaguntza program and the budget that had been allocated for the plan did not arrive, and this item, the patio cover, according to the councilwoman's own response, was a item intended for patio covers in municipal teaching centers and responded to a reality found after analyzing the calls that had taken place in the last years of Udalaguntza. That is, that plan was in place, there were new needs and there were new needs that were incorporated into planning. That is to say, last year's budgets created this item because with the budget that had been allocated it did not arrive. For these reasons, from the four points which we discuss today, three of the opposite points in the subjugated, they spoke of a greater fund of budget, as we believe, for the proposition of the foregoing in 2019 has been shortened. In particular, we were asking the government to make a specific examination for each center to know the present situation, even if we wanted to increase it in three million budgets of summer aid, and also to raise the contribution to the plan by 10%, that is to say, a four million increase, and then we even asked that we could put the lids in the courtyard for three million dollars. And in this year's budgets, what we see is that the budget line for Udalaguntza has been maintained, that the budget line for the plan remains similar and that the line for patio decks seems to be disappearing, which is integrated into the general infrastructure line. We will also have to see what specific items relating to patio decks are in the development of the 2019 Budget. And we called for these budget increases, not out of whim, but because we believe that we must ensure, as I said before, that the more than 375,000 pupils in education in Euskadi have to do so in physical, adequate, sufficient and quality environments. And we ask for these increases because, not Elkarrekin We can, but the scales themselves, the government's own reports say it hasn't been enough so far and the numbers themselves, which some of us will say now, prove it. The list of applications, of complaints, which Mrs Bengoechea will probably then make some reference to why we have been hit so hard in recent years, by the type and when the centers were built, we have to manage that problem. That's what this is about. At Udalaguntza's call, as I said, in 2017 at least 64 requests for lack of budget remained out. The list is long, and I don't have time right now to analyze it, but we have a serious case, which we are going to deal with in the near future too, such as that of the barracks or of the prefabricated modules, which I find to be indifferent to the terminology, but we are talking about an environment not suitable for teaching, which is what they have in Zipiriñe in Sopela. We are talking about the roof of the courtyard of Albiz de Sestao, which will also come to Parliament shortly; about the works of Antonio Trueba in Barakaldo; about the situation that the spokespersons and spokespersons of the education commission could see from the district of Ibayondo. On Monday, in twitter, a professor at the Miribilla College, went up again, a year and a year after we were there, photos with all the school full of cubes, drops, false ceilings half fallen, in a school that is practically new, and that neither the Bilbao City Council nor the Basque Government have known or wanted to fix. It is a school that needs special attention, special affection and special care on the part of the Department of Education, because of the characteristics of that school, which is essential to ensure that at some point we achieve social development and social integration and human development there, in the San Francisco neighborhood and the lower areas of Miribilla. But I wanted to point out the I Baiondo district as a whole, because we have problems in San Adrian, we have problems in Gallego Gorria, etc. How the work of Luis Briñas has also been managed. It seems that the result was not what the school expected, it is a result, well, let's say satisfactory, but because we have had to do that process. That is why we want and that is why we say that it is important to evaluate the plan, that the new plan be designed on the basis of criteria – we have proposed some concrete measures, in addition to the amendments and the final compromise between all the groups – in order to try to avoid that when things are done, they are done wrong. We must ensure that the work is planned and developed with guarantees from the outset. These are some of the examples, but it must also be said that of the initial plan, of those nearly 200 performances, about 50 for different reasons have ceased to be done. And, to be honest, when we saw the contributions made by the teams, I must confess that we were glad, because we saw an arrangement possible, and that's how it was at the last moment. It is true, that the agreement is in a sense short: We haven't made a deal on specific budgets, and, well, everyone likes to have the measurements that we finally have to reflect on budgets. But that's why we'll have a chance to argue about the ancients. But this time, we're here to make a minimum deal. I think that this subject is of great importance in order to improve the quality of public schools, and I think it must be the principal object of this parliament. That is why we are preparing a compromise proposal, which we think from the outset included most aspects of the rest of the groups, and finally the agreement has been reached. It is obviously not the initial proposal of Elkarrekin Podemos, but we think that the four points we have agreed are fundamental to starting from an initial consensus on how to develop the new plan and we will continue on that. That's why I think it's a happy bargain. I think that what we're saying at the first point is very necessary that we have to perform the evaluation of the Plan for the improvement of the Education Understructions, and establish the priorities of the new plan based on this evaluation. And I think the Board of Education must do it, that the Board of Education must have its role, and that the Educational Community must be a major paper. We also, considering the corrections, have established the arrangement for the new plan, a plan of 2019 to 2023, to reflect on the previous project of subjugation at that period, or we are almost at that time, in order to discuss the different sections and criteria of education with the community. It's just the need for school-premiums, accessability, playgrounds, space requirements for physical education, security, new buildings and outer space, needing restaurants, etc., etc. And, for instance, I've put up Briñas' case before, because we think it's necessary to share a project with the school to avoid it. Lastly, as we place it at the fourth point, though we have not agreed to a particular number, we believe that its importance is the importance of the funds which are required, and that this appeal may re-establish the expense of building up in the municipal owners' buildings under the School of Education, and let him examine the opportunity to increase the budget. And we have also said, that if we consider some of the projects that have been introduced and left outside as urgent, and I believe that the Board of Education can have a paper when it is time to call it, if we come to the agreement, I think, we have a compact of the minimum, but in the end a treaty, and it is fortunate that this is not usually the case in the matters of education and education. Well, I don't know if it's going to be the beginning of a new friendship or not, but our sand granite to start the 2019-2023 infrastructure plan in another way that we've finished, which we have in force. We left it on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u46	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Our group has signed the transactional and we have done so in the spirit expressed here by Mr Martínez: let's see if we are all pushing this forward. But, no doubt, when you sign a transaction you leave many things that are important to you, you leave them out of the document. So, even if it's just for the record, in case we ever review the records, I'd like to express them here. Let us see, our group knows, we have said it many times and Mr Martínez, who already knows me, has announced that he would say it, our group has recognized it from the beginning, I believe that since the first interventions, not only in the infrastructure plan, but now we are talking about that, this government has had it difficult. It has been difficult for a reason, I repeat it again: in the year 82 the competence of education is transferred and many centers are transferred, and speaking of Bilbao, as Mr Martínez said, I remember that it was transferred centers that had been built during the Republic, precious centers, but, of course, they were of the Republic. And in Gipuzkoa we have the famous Viteri schools, which were also transferred and which were a little later – Viteri schools there are probably all over Gipuzkoa – and it is also transferred at a time when we are still at the end of the baby boom And today we are here and those centers that we built in the 1980s, plus the patches that we have been able to make to all those we received as part of the transfer, have become obsolete. They are centers that are 30 years old and have become obsolete; structurally, we will have to change boilers, roofs, electricity, put fiber, pipes, plumbing... But they have also become obsolete in terms of the needs that a centre has today. From accessibility needs, which are undoubtedly being addressed to educational, pedagogical needs, needs to create a pedagogical environment such as that now required. And then the needs, of course, that in the dining room the children are not stuck in a marabunta of 83 decibels. All these are emerging needs. And we like to make history, because if we go to the immediate, if we don't tell the whole story, we don't understand the magnitude of the problem we're facing and it's an important magnitude. As Mr Zatón also said now a year and a half ago, it was in April 2017, the counselor told us that – Mr Martínez – that 80% of the plan that was already being completed or being completed had already been completed, that was a year and a half ago. Today we are already in the second half of November and a year and a half later we do not have an evaluation of that plan. And it's just that time is going to eat us, and it's going to eat us, why? Because look, look at it as we look at it, it's that this year, workable we don't have 20 days left. And the Education Council is going to be able in those 20 days to do an evaluation of the plan? They're going to tell me, "Oh, but it's not over the year!". Well, what are you waiting for, putting the last nail on New Year's Day or New Year's Day? I don't think so, we should have them here. Sometimes our group is reproached that we are in a hurry and that we are in a hurry and that we are in a hurry, but look, in Education the administrative procedure, of course, someone will be able to defend it like us, but no one else, because the administrative procedure implies the equality of citizens before the law, but in Education the time of the department has to adapt a little more to the time of the subjects on which it acts. At that April appearance, a year and a half ago, the counselor told us that she was happy, and she probably had reason to be happy, that by 2018-2019 there would only be 40 classrooms in modules. And those kids have been coming in modules for years, they've been taking off little by little, but we have kids who have done all their primary in modules or all their secondary. It's just, even a warrant that we pass so fast, we are already in the third budget, is the difference that there is in a child between eight and twelve years, time that is a treasure for their formation. Then our group is a little desperate for time. We still do not have the evaluation of this infrastructure plan that ends now, although a year and a half ago it was complete at 80%. We also see that the plan that is now closed, which in the end with the additions that have already been talked about here has been closed by some 300 million euros, is the heir of the previous plan, that of 2008-2012, which had 700 million euros. We have gone from EUR 700 million to EUR 300 million, but not only that, but also in the document signed by the Socialist Group with the Basque Nationalist Group on the infrastructures to be made with those EUR 300 million, because I do not lie to them if I tell them that half, half, was of those that had not been made with the EUR 700 million. Please, let's put the batteries on, because here we all want to throw the car together, but let's put the batteries on. And now, we see, in the new budget that is presented, that the plan, that infrastructure plan that we don't know yet, but that someone has had to calculate something, because they have put 45 million – I imagine that to put 45 million, those will bring cause for a reflection, for a first analysis... –, with 45 million, gentlemen, we do nothing. And the counselor told me, and she was right, "It's just that spending money is hard." Yes, but look, he told us that they were also going to put the catering of the dining rooms, the roof of the outer enclosures, the ramps, etc., etc., that were going to come into the infrastructure plan as well. He told us when we demanded that he remove noise from the dining rooms. Well, look, the intervention, as soon as he starts bidding on works, is going to ask him to put all the money in. Then we will pay little by little with works certifications. But if a work that costs 1 million euros comes here, the intervener will say to him: "To bid on it, give me that money." That money disappears. And we're talking about that we have 1,500-1,600 centers where we're going to have to act. Really, 45 million don't give a damn. Counselor, introduce us to the next infrastructure plan and evaluate it, because as you begin to write money out of that 45 million, we have come to nothing, and we will have lost a whole year of the next plan. And to finish, I want to tell you that we again maintain that the public school has to compete in quality; and to compete in quality it needs quality centers, and quality centers are achieved with infrastructure plans. Anyway, I thank you for listening to me, because that's all that was left to us when we arrived at this transactional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u49	Good morning, everyone. Well, our group is of special importance in planning infrastructure, and also in the manner required and well-conditioned by education structure, for several reasons: Because there's a good planning that makes it easy for them to respect the deadlines of the calendars. Because even a good plan is a negotiation and a project is supposed to be shared and arranged, and because a good planning reduces sidecals, negative consequences, even though they always happen. Then what matters to us is a good planning. And we have seen what has happened with the Plan of Subventures, because we have a number of times a discussion on the committee, and even if we look at the improvement of the next underlying plan, our team asked for a demonstration before the end of the previous year. We have missed a shortage of good planning from the Board of Education, but of course everything has not even been in the hands of this Board of Education, because this Board of Education has also received an inheritance, and that must be considered too. But we have been a direct witness here, and it seems to me that we've been witnessing all the groups we've been in, to the cost of making our 2014-2018 plan, and really working under the foundation of education. Many of the schools were already set up, and the works which were recorded in 2006 were unmade. There, when we visited the Riverlands, we saw, it is true, the situation is turning, but today even Mr. Martíne has mentioned the case in Miribilian. This also shows how little importance is given to maintenance and maintenance, and if we were to give more importance to innovation, we would save ourselves at the time of making new innovations, or at the time of making new ones. So it seems to us that there is also another aspect of support in the planning. But then, whatever may be the case, it's curious that in all the scenes we've been through, the percentage of the whole of the plan was always the same, 80%. They were curious, they were always full as they ought to be. And we're seeing in the visits we're doing, that needs are a machine, there's a machine that's missing: the need for shelters, the dining room situation... What Mrs. Bengoche has said, we can be found for a moment with buildings built 35 years ago, which require innovation, but because later we have not been well built and renewed. Like New Mother. I went to Ama, the New Mother has a new building, very beautiful, and it's so beautiful that they build the yard without shelter. To build a yard in the Basque Country without shelter, well. Then it's worth noticing how we build new ones, because if you don't, we're getting tired of homeworks. That's why we're talking about the need for planning. So there's a hand full of work, because there's a hand full to answer the needs. For our team, then, one is essential, first of all, to make the evaluation of the plan already established: what has been accomplished, what has not been fulfilled, why they have not been executed, what difficulties we have had. Then, looking at the next plan, more realistic and considering the difficulties we've had. To foresee such difficulties. Secondly, to make a diagnosis, to make a good diagnosis: How nice there are... And this diagnosis must be shared and settled, for if it is not shared and not agreed with the schools and the community of education, then we shall meet with problems. And we think that at the time of the diagnosis, different criteria must be considered, because on the one hand, we have the premiss of access, and the question must be taken into consideration: We still have colleges, with enormous license plates, without elevators, or in the lobby there's no accessability and so on. Generalized reform, as Mrs. Bengochea said, needing to cover up the playgrounds, the necessity for physical education, the safety business, the need for restaurants, because we've got some schools that don't eat, or the dining room that we've seen in Donostian, the Catalan Erasus College, the dining room we've seen. And then, if we need to strengthen the autonomy of the schools, the schools should also decide what sort of dining-room service they should serve. Then a chance to build kitchens. There is here a middle-way in this parliament, which is accepted at the Board of Education, which is not yet implemented. So that we consider these different criteria, parallelly, progressively, to satisfy and satisfy our needs. And then, of course, it's time to establish a project. Projects must be agreed to the schools. They must participate. What a legislation is there, there's a regulator frame that must be fulfilled, but then reality often doesn't agree with the law and educational reality, and that's important also to tell you about the opinion of the schools. For in the name of the law there are many things to commit horrors, and then contradictions. But as we saw in St.ostian, in a new college, up there, in knowledge, there were very little rooms, and not adapted to new methods and pestagogias. Then, in order to avoid such contradictions, the importance of a good planning. So let's go to a good diagnosis, and let's go make a good planning. If we make a good planning, we're gonna make a lot of progress.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u51	Well, let's deal with an issue where fortunately, I want to start by highlighting it, it is going to be adopted unanimously and seems to me to be a worthy novelty, especially on an issue such as education. Above all, we came from a Committee on Education last week, where we also approved two proposals unanimously. And it seems to me that on a subject like this, such as education, I think it is an element to highlight, and whenever responsibility and common sense prevails, because it is likely to do interesting things. And otherwise you cannot address issues that for a society are truncal, such as the issue of education, with responsibility and common sense here and anywhere else. In any case, I will begin by congratulating myself, each one has made a part of renunciation of his previous approaches, as always when a pact is made, and we have remained with the common territory, with the lowest common denominator, which does not satisfy us all fully, but we also do not completely dislike it. Well, with those same limbs we'll have to deal with what's coming from now on in the world of education, specifically with the new bill. But let's go to what was played here specifically, what was presented by Podemos, which was an investment theme aimed at improving public school equipment. As Mr Martínez rightly said, school spaces are the first material and tangible contact with which students and teachers find themselves. Not only are the spaces the first contact, also the infrastructures, the material that the school has and the school equipment with which each center is equipped. And in this environment it is in which the educational activity of all pupils is developed, and this environment must be – that would be the aspiration – in optimal conditions, in order to be able to develop what is intended, which is a quality education and which guarantees the equality of pupils in the face of the educational needs they have. As it has already been announced here, we had the attendance of the Education Advisor in April 2017, and in that appearance the counselor explained the level of compliance of the Infrastructure Improvement Program in Public Education Centers 2014-2018. From that appearance, what is extracted is that from the works contained in that infrastructure plan, up to that date, 80 % had been executed or were being processed by the Administration. Both categories fell within 80 per cent. In such cases, it should be borne in mind that there are many times when budgetary or probabilities are being worked, since new needs may arise during school courses. That's why they're called budgets: you assume what you're going to need and then reality can force you to make changes. As Mrs Bengoechea has already pointed out, budgetary enlargements have to be made in this plan itself, because the initial forecasts have been overwhelmed, and she has no doubt that in all the budgets, however much we want to fine-tune in the forecasts, there is always a margin to collect unforeseen events, new needs to which we must respond, and in this legislature we have already been part of some of them. As Mr Martínez recalled, last week we had the opportunity to visit one of those infrastructures that has had a bad life, the covering works of the courtyard of the Luis Briñas de Santutxu school: started with a project, the project was expanding; clash with resistance from the Administration, in a complicated work, in which there were urbanistic complications due to the density of the neighborhood itself, in which there were also urbanistic conditions of all kinds and also elements of urbanistic conservation of the building itself that made the work more complicated. But in the end, a satisfactory situation has been reached on both sides. Why? Because, well, the educational community has been counted on, a basic consensus has been reached, an important part of what was initially requested by the centre has been changed, because new needs have emerged. And the visit, well, was a positive visit in which we could see that there was a sufficient degree of satisfaction on the part of the educational community, was also the municipal architect of Bilbao, who had a lot to say in that regard. And I believe that this is the way: to have the participation of the educational community and try to bring as close as possible the works to be carried out to the demands and the concrete reality that are posed by the educational community. It is also important to note some aspects. Since 2013, these modular classrooms to which Mrs Bengoechea referred have been reduced from 107 to 60 in 2017. There's still too many, it's true. And that effort will have to be continued, although an increase of EUR 45 million, mainly for those specific needs, had been established for that purpose. Infrastructures which are regarded as minor works, and of which there are very many in all the centres, are aimed at maintaining the centres, adapting or improving existing spaces, and it should be mentioned that this item has been increased every year compared to the investment envisaged in the general investment programme. The Infrastructure Plan must be carried out with prior work, which allows for the setting of priorities with a programme of concrete actions and for this, it is true, it is essential, an evaluation of the Infrastructure Improvement Plan 2014-2018 must be carried out, in order to be able to assess what has been done, the degree of satisfaction that exists in what has been achieved and the drawer that still remains of requests and needs that have not been achieved in this plan, because obviously, not only needs that have not been addressed, but new needs that have been emerging in this period when the previous plan has been implemented, will have arisen. And the needs can be very varied, facilities of all kinds: conditioning of facilities, improvement of the facilities, new facilities or expansion of the centers by demographic evolution or by migratory movements, that there is of everything. And my group believes that in order to ensure quality education, we must also offer quality environments or facilities, with equipment that makes school courses easier for students, also introducing new technologies, and this sometimes also means adapting schools which, in turn, have tools to carry out their learning. All this should be seen in an infrastructure plan that guarantees equal opportunities, of course, in all public schools in the Basque Country. This must be done in order to adapt educational infrastructures to the new synergies that can be produced, which will certainly be produced for several reasons: for the exchange of methodological models, for educational projects that are increasingly technological and need to be adapted to schools, and this is something to be taken into account by the department and therefore taken into account in the budgets, and all so that our students can compete with real competences in a globalised world. In any case, there is coincidence, I think, in the analysis of what needs to be done. This has been reflected in this amendment, which will be adopted unanimously, which is important, and we only hope that this will establish a path to follow from now on, not only in this, but in other fields, in an element for us to be truncated in any society, such as education.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u52	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u53	Thank you, Chief, and good morning to all. We've often said that it's an important challenge to our education as a nation, and that's why, as I said on the board to present budgets, education as a national challenge, our team thinks that the budget bill for 2019 has worked out and anticipated the appropriate national response. It's just to see that the education camp is almost quarter of the entire budget project. It's up to 2.845,4 million dollars to face the mills in education world, 4% more than last year, 12,6 million dollars. "Dame en qué inviertes y te dire lo que valoras," said Mr Martínez. Well, here's our bet: nearly a quarter of the budget devoted to education. And this general challenge in the world of education has a great many challenges, but all these, as we believe, can be summed up in a single one: To strengthen the universal service of excellence, equity, and social barrier. And considering the challenge or purpose, the budget project places a public and a prior policy in order to determine the investment to be made on the parts. In that sense, project gets a number of rounds to fund education foundations, it's a priority in the budget project. For minor works of childhood and primary education, 901.500 euros, 298.500 for minor schools of secondary education, children and school schools, 25.507.252 euros, for works to be done at the schools of the second education, 15.973.168 euros, and a work of repairing the schools under the municipal law school, 6 million euros. In short, towards the development of substructure, only in 2019, 41,5 million euros; Summerhelps, 6 million, and for minor works, 3 million Euro. That's 44.5 million looking at 2019. Of course, it's to be added to all the equipment costs that suppose a large investment level. If we look at the original proposition, you were far enough away from each other. For the eubertarian party, the original initiative was neither realistic nor effective. On the one hand, as far as the amount of money is concerned, the usual question, where are you going to take those sums from? On the other hand, it was about the deadlines. In three months' time, it was requested with a procedure. In the manner of the procedure, the new plan of infrastructure would be extremely delayed, and consequently even the execution of labor would be extremely delayed. So it wasn't doable, and we told Mr Martín about it. That's why we introduced an integer correction in three senses. In the first place, we requested the division that the proper infrastructure should be given to the system, according to what is available at the moment, and according to the wants which are at the moment, so that the privileges should be fixed. On the other hand, we asked the department that the Substructure should do the evaluation of the 2014-2018 plan, and that a new plan for the period of 2019-2023, which would answer to some preponderances: the necessity of schooling, on the other hand, accessability, and finally adaptations to regulation. We received a third point in the correction of our whole system, and presented it to one of the solutions on the monographic agreement that was related to it. In this case, we asked the department to adapt education structure to new methodology and education projects, using new designs that make unions. I think we've made a logical and realistic plan, besides the necessity of reflection, a plan which enabled us to accomplish the precise actions and projects. I'd like to say that the $45 million that Mrs. Bengoche planned is very easy to spend, and I'd like to say that ability isn't just economic, it must be economic, but because capacity must be technical, it must be administrative. This is a new school, as soon as it is a new building, needs to be identified, first and then the needs to be shared, with the education unit, the Administration must be shared, especially when they are new buildings, the project has to be written, the project has to be shared, the project has to be approved, the contraction process has to be granted, it has to be offered, it has to be done, it has to be done, it has to be done, it has to be done, it has to be done, it has to be done, it has to be done in the right way, it has to be done. So capacity is yes, economic, but also something else. And we cannot forget all this when we begin this discussion. Like I said, the attitudes of one and the other though far away, we have all been flexible; we have moved rather from our original positions, and I believe we have obtained a good middle course. We find it important that all the members of the legislature, as far as the undergoverments are concerned, have made an agreement about some minors, even when we are on the porch of a new sub-structure plan for four years to come. In this middle term, we ask the division, as has been said, to make an evaluation as regards the plan of the previous period, and to receive in this evaluation certain things which have been said here. the degree of perfection, which are finished, which have been attended with great difficulties or complexities. We'll have information on that. And from this evaluation we ask him to make a new infrastructure plan and fix its priorities. But besides this information of evaluation, the middle man asks the department for some indications or other, in this process of reflection which ought to be made before the new plan is worked out, let him speak to the unit of education, and let him consider some facts or other: that there were proper fields for the education of education, of access, of acoustic infection, security, and playgrounds, and that there were kitchens in the dining-rooms and in the dining-rooms. Other criteria may also be made, but we think they are at least fundamental. In the same way, we ask the department to share the projects that are going to be performed with the schools, to unite the work that will be done with the project of education and the needs of the school as convenient as possible. As far as the design is concerned, the account we received in our corrections has also been received in the half-path correction and makes us happy. As far as the funding is concerned, we're also asking the department to put enough funding to work in municipal school under the headlines, and we ask him to study it if he has the opportunity to increase the budget funding, or if the works that are urgent are left outside during the summer service call. We have therefore, as far as we have said, been able to receive important matters in the middle, and we are glad that we shall accept them with one mouth. It seems to us that the starting-point is suitable for the underlying systems to form a proper and realistic field of cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u54	Thank you, Mrs. News. Martínezinne mustn't speak. Mrs. De Bengoche must not speak. Mrs. Ubera, okay? From here? Good.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u55	No, just two tips. Even when we consider the construction of the lower classes of education, we are speaking of the public work, and consider the quality of materials in public work, because in the case of Mirilea, it seems to me that the quality of material is seen in it, and that afterwards, when grown old, it presupposes more money and institutions. So that's what I'm thinking about, too. And the workers' conditions are also to be considered. And then another tip when we talk about budgets. It has been mentioned: "Tell us where money is taken from." Perhaps this is a question maybe for another life or another time, and it requires a change in democratic culture rather than where to take it from and where to put it, we ought to begin to think of making a budget examination and discussions, and to give negotiation and discussions before defining the lines of money, and how we divide it and how we should improve it there. And I don't know whether this is for another life or for another discussion, but how we understand the participation and the conception of participation. Because we talk a lot about schools, it's okay, but we've also seen that when we're conducting education infrastructure, the schools have often added to us that it's not related to them at all. Then it seems to me that there are two very important indicators, which require change in democratic culture, and that we ought to penetrate this way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialist doesn't have to speak. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u57	Yeah. With your permission from the seat to deal with Mrs. Ubera's accounts. In the first place, and with the preceding mention, we are agreed that the principal object of the administration is to promote the physical infrastructure. This is certainly the object of the administration in every degree. So we agree that the quality of material must be perfect, and at least in order that the investment which is made should be adequate, in order to make it work for several years. From the other point of view where to remove it and place it. Well, if the budget projects have something to fix a few priorities in some public policies, and it's like, like, funk, and it's like, you know, it's like, "You know, the budget's a tool for developing those budgets in a government projects." So, as I said before, this budget project has directed 24% of the entire budget into the educational world. I think it's gonna be hard for you to look around and find a country that's giving 24 percent for education structure. So I think our bet is smart, for education. However, you know the way to negotiate budgets is still open and you'll have a chance to change their priorities as far as possible, but the budget isn't. it is not only about education, but that of education. The budget is in the government, it's picking up departments of fun, and we'll see what EHG's will is in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u58	Thank you, Mrs. News. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH, and Eucobertarians, half-correction signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u59	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposition, as the Parlamentary People made by the Parlamentary Society, concerning self-reference and supported foundations. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Alonso, representing the Potula of Euscals, is yours by introducing and defending the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Very good morning. Let us talk about the presentation of self-government, the foundations that have been agreed upon there, the political situation to which it has given rise, the meetings and disagreements in this House and the future of the legislature – it is the future of Euskadi – but it is the future of the political legislature, to be narrowed down. I will not tire you too much with your background, which you are known to all of you. Yes, I must say that, in fact, there was an agreement in this Parliament shortly after the start of the legislature to resume the work of the self-government presentation that had been gathering and listening to different personalities in the legal, political, etc. world throughout the previous legislature. It had not reached any end, but it was decided to resume and, allegedly, we were told that it was going to happen or what was meant to be done there was a reform of the Statute. We never thought it was a reform of the Statute that was meant to be done. And I don't think the intentions were hiding either. It was already mentioned that what was meant to take place, after that presentation, was a new status for Euskadi which, of course, should be radically disruptive with the Statute of Gernika, a overcoming of it, and therefore, it was not about the reform and improvement of that Statute of Gernika that has united us to the Basques of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa during all these decades, but about a new action, a different thing, and, moreover, that necessarily had to – the fear that has been confirmed naturally by the facts – have to go beyond the constitutional sphere. However, we were strongly insisted that the pretension was that the paper would light up a text or a proposal that had some characteristics, that was legal, that is, that it was in accordance with the legislation and then also in accordance with the Constitution and its provisions, and that it would obey an agreement between different people. The paper has lit up something that has nothing to do with it. Nor is it legal because it clearly outstrips its scope or capacity to make and outstrip the Constitution, nor does it respond to an agreement between different people. It is an exclusively nationalistic vision of life. The agreement only includes Bildu and the PNV, which have a majority in this House, so they have a majority in the Basque Parliament to be able to push for such a reform. Everyone knows and no one is hiding that if these bases are transformed into an articulated text, which is transformed into a reform proposal, there will be no journey. There is no possibility that it has absolutely no route because, in fact, it violates constitutional limits, clearly goes beyond legality and it is not even a good proposal. But something happened in the paper. The PNV bought Bildu's thesis, which had manifested it. I have to say that the people of Bildu have their coherence and have expressed it since the first day, and what they asked was that this self-government presentation should not be set more limits than those of the majority expression of Basque society, which are what you understand to represent in this House and therefore do not represent more limits. In that regard, those bases were adopted. The bases tell us that there is a Basque people, that it is not affirmed for what reasons it is said to have all the characteristics of a people who have the right to have their own sovereignty and therefore have an original sovereignty that they now want to exercise. It is therefore an ethnicist base, we do not know very well, because the Basque people are said to understand not only the three territories of the autonomous community but also Navarre and Iparralde. The Rioja hadn't gotten in yet, but I guess we can start talking about that now, too. I don't know if it's the area where the euskera is spoken. In order not to look at our navel, let's apply it to other peoples, let's see exactly what path these bases have, this ethnicistic way of seeing things. It has been a long time since we want to talk about this in Europe. There are people who speak German in Belgium, in France, in Italy, in Austria... It is an official language in all those countries. Of course in Germany. Nobody talks about an ethnic base of a German people for whom they spoke German or had German culture more than 60 years ago, because talking about it worked very badly, because it ignores many other things, and therefore I clearly reject that there can be an ethnic base for the constitution of political communities or that this is a criterion that we necessarily have to follow when no one is following it anymore. There are more people who speak Spanish or who are Spanish culture outside of Spain than here. And the same is true of many other societies, many more people speak in English than those who live in the UK, or speak French than those who live in France. Therefore, I reject that there may be an ethnicist thesis on the origin of the Basque people and on their sovereignty. And it seems to me to be an ancient and dangerous idea, like almost all the ideas that underpin the proposal of the bases. Not just that, because then we're being cleared up. Although sovereignty belongs to the Basque people, who have been described, it can only be exercised or preached by those who are neighbours of the autonomous community. That's what they say. The rest of the Basque people have this sovereignty, but they cannot exercise it. Because here, finally, sovereignty, self-determination and the idea after using the ending to confederate, as you say you want to do, or to proclaim independence as Bildu would wish, that can only be done by those who are neighbours of the autonomous community. So I wonder, who are the Basques who are part of that people who hold that original sovereignty that everyone has to respect? And the bases themselves don't clear it up. In that nationalistic utopia that is to be built there will be nationals and citizens. And who's going to be the national and who's going to be the citizen? Look, that's the new status we're not nationalists for is like an alien law. He'll give us rights, he'll recognize us rights, but he'll make us foreigners in our own land. That is what the bases say, unless we accept that we have to be national. Who then is the national and then is part of the Basque people? No matter where he was born, no matter what number of Basque surnames he has, no matter what language he speaks, no matter whether he speaks Basque or Spanish, no matter what language he speaks, no matter who he was born, no matter how long he has been here, the only important thing is that he is a nationalist. Because for you it is only Basques who are nationalists, and therefore those are going to be nationalists, and those who are not nationalists, those who are not, because we will not be nationalists, we will be citizens. And this is presented here. It's even worse than an ethnic base, it's an ideological base, of exclusion. On that basis, you intend to develop the future framework for the coexistence of the Basques. It deeply denies coexistence, because it's based on that. They also find the legitimation of their proposal in a curious idea that no one has been applying in Europe for a long time either, because it also worked very badly, and that the bases state that respect for legality cannot cause the violation of the democratic principle. This means that my will may be above the law and that the rule of law is not in this area; there is something more important, which is the opinion of the majority. Europe has been built on the rule of law. Europe has been built as a community of law. It has been signed in Europe that there is no majority that can bend a law, and that is the guarantee of coexistence, and that is the guarantee also for peace itself in Europe. Yesterday the President of the High Court of Justice delivered an important speech at the opening of the judicial year and reminded him of a couple of basic ideas. First he told them about the Treaty of London, and that the rule of law is indeed the basis of the European construction and the world that we have believed is fair to defend the rights of all people. And he also spoke of another concept, which is that you handle "political decision-making", which is actually that idea that my will may be above the law in the circumstances in which I decree it that way. And he told them about Kant, and I liked him telling them about Kant and the categorical imperative. And to what extent can this respect the categorical imperative? Do you believe that the idea you are advocating is applicable to everyone else? Or can only you or the nationalists or those you say? Let us say, by chance, that this idea of yours or this vision of the democratic principle applies to all. Does a city council have the legitimacy to not enforce a law because I have a majority against the provision of that law? Do you have it? Why, because they're Basque nationalists? I want you to think carefully about where we are. Because we are European citizens. There are only two places in Europe where this idea is now being defended that the will of a minority may be above the law, which is in Catalonia and here. You will tell me that there is a big difference, because in Catalonia you not only defend that idea, but apply it. And that the Basque way is that we defend the same idea but do not apply it. And then, they have approved a basis with all these predictions and that content, so as not to apply it. I mean, I'm gonna make an atomic bomb, but quiet, I'm not gonna use it. I'm going to make it, because I have a right to make it, but I don't want to use it. I'm not like that, I'm not gonna use it. The Basque way is that I have it, but I don't use it. The Basque route is nuclear deterrence. What's that, covert blackmail? "I have this, I have the same proposal as the Catalans, but I don't want to use it. I've got her there. I'm good, I won't use it. Or maybe one day I will, or I will or I won't. The tense or not tense. Or if the Catalan independenceists manage to pull something out of a weak government, then, hey, so do I, but let the wear and tear do it." This is what you intend to do and what you are actually doing in the paper. Then he told us and told us the lehendakari Urkullu, whose words are full of goodness, but who has little gift of persuasion, not to say no gift of persuasion. Yesterday he said he was convincing Torra, but Torra came out very unconvinced. And the scarce gift of persuasion of the lehendakari has reached my person. Nor does the Lehendakari convince me, because it turns out that the words he utters are never accompanied by facts, and rather are contrary to the facts. And he has told us that this is an agreement that is going to widen and that the method of widening the agreement is outsourcing, which is a very fashionable thing: to call experts who come here, to whom the mission, Mr Egibar, has been entrusted, to find the philosophical stone. That is, to write in a text and transcribe absolutely illegal bases, which have an appearance of legality, and to reach a consensus among the political groups that have not been achieved by the politicians of the House. What is curious is that there is not much confidence in the politicians themselves in this House. If the politicians of our House do not buy our thesis, let the experts come, to see if the experts are entangled. That is not going to work and they are not going to find the philosophical stone, much less they are going to find it in the first additional provision of the Constitution, which is something that really surprises me. But I would like to recall that the decisive element for the PNV not to support the Constitution in its day was its disagreement with the first additional provision, insofar as it did recognize historical rights, but within the scope of the Constitution, insofar as they are recognized by the sovereignty that gives rise to the Constitution, and with the limitations that this entails for its updating and for its validity. I have brought this initiative to the House, not to show my disagreement with the bases, because it is known, but to offer a political opportunity. And I mean it. It seems to me that we are at a point where we seem to be starting a new legislature. There have been two years of collaboration and agreement, and there has been a fundamental fact, which is the change of strategy of the Government and its alliance with Bildu in a matter as little less than the future of the political organization of the Basque Autonomous Community, that is, in the most important matter on which this House could take a decision. And it would seem that the legislature is starting again, and that is a political difficulty for me. I think it is also to throw away many possibilities that the legislature still has, because we are on its equator. The first consequence is, of course, that it prevents us from supporting a Government that defends those ideas, and that we can give them encouragement, and that we can pave the way for that Basque way to be able to go. I mean clearly, so that no one is called deception, that besides the Basque way does not exist. It doesn't exist. The Catalan way already knows that it exists, and where it leads, of course, to the breakdown of legality and the consequences that this entails. You don't want that, do you? The Basque way doesn't exist. There is no way out of the law and there is no way out of the Constitution, and I want to make it quite clear, and it seems to me that it is much more honorable to tell you than to walk in deception or play games like we have. The legislature seems to start again and the strategic partners of the government sit on that bench, but they don't want to help you, because among you they fear, among you they distrust and you compete. What do they compete, for an abertzale vote, to see who is more abertzale than both? What game is this, what tactic is this? Therefore, it does not seem to me that all this is not taken seriously. I would like to take the legislature seriously and I would like, and I told it from the beginning, to support a government that has the capacity to reform and that could maintain the balance of coexistence offered by the Statute of Gernika. I regret that this is not the case, but today they have the opportunity to bring back the work of the presentation to the previous point, because there is no consensus, because there is no legality and because the situation to which you are led, as Mr Martínez rightly points out in his amendment, is a situation that the lehendakari already described as a stupendous failure. So, I am as I am and I am not going to become a nationalist, Mr Egibar, I can't do it, I can't do it, I am as I am, but we are possibleists and pragmatic and we wanted to agree. You have an opportunity, and I sincerely ask you, for your sake, for the good of the Government, for the good of the legislature and for the good of the Basque Country, or of the Basque people, as you call it, to vote in favour of this proposal and to follow the path of understanding that we had undertaken.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u61	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u62	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning to all. Since the 20th of September, when the conference here took place in general politics, we have not discussed the auto-ber and the new state here at the meeting. To-day, we make a proposition of the Populative Party, about a proposition which we do not like, as I shall explain hereafter. Nevertheless, in this context, with the will to give this discussion a constructive meaning, we have presented a full correction. Besides, we believe that we have submitted a correction which the President will see well. I was telling them, indeed, that since the general policy plenary on 20 September we had not had the opportunity to discuss self-government again. With the amendment to the whole that we have recorded on the initiative of the People's Party, what we are seeking is to bring it to a constructive plane. In this amendment we literally take up the expressions that Lehendakari shared in this very rostrum on the basis agreed by his party, the Basque Nationalist Party, and Euskal Herria Bildu, and, in particular, what we do is to reflect two aspects or to reflect two aspects in this amendment as a whole. The first is that, in fact, Euskal Herria Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party have sufficient majority to pass a new statute in this House, but that it would be literally a stupendous failure to join any other party. And the second, simpler yet, that the plurality of national identities, feelings of belonging and ideological and political choices of our society is no excuse, but rather an empirical reality that must be taken care of. As I was saying, we propose, in our correction, to agree two simple things, derived from the words literally expressed by the President in the general policy meeting: On the one hand, the Euccanic Party and the Basque People are the majority in accepting a new state in this legislature, but it would be a failure to add no one more to such an agreement; and on the other hand, the multiplicity of the national identity and the fact that the Euskalological choice in society is a reality and must be cared for. I am convinced that the Group of the Basque Nationalist Party will find it an amendment worthy of support and that they will vote in favour of it without further ado, or we will see that. That is what I am telling you, I hope you will actually vote in favour of this amendment, because we are talking about more serious issues than it seems. We are addressing the future of our country, whether that future is written in many hands, as much as we are in this House, or if it is done only in two hands. We are seeing whether that future is going to be shared or whether a part of our country can stay out. We have the unique opportunity in the last four decades to reach a historic, historic agreement of truth, and to be able to reach the broadest, plural and transversal agreement that has been seen in our recent history. An agreement that speaks, in effect, of us being a nation, but a plural and diverse nation, not a homogeneous and flat one; an agreement that shields the social rights of Basque citizens, especially when recession clouds reappear on the horizon; an agreement that makes our society a point of equality between women and men; a point-by-point agreement to deal with the challenge of climate change; an agreement that values Basque, our own language; an agreement that speaks of our social, cultural and economic ties with Iparralde and Navarre. Without a doubt it would be the most exciting agreement that we could offer to the people in this Parliament and to Basque citizens, an agreement to be proud and proud of it. And it would be a real mistake to miss this opportunity. It would be truly frustrating if, when the political and social conditions are in place to reach such an agreement, some take another path: that of a project limited to the Abertzal forces, that of a project that, instead of building a country, is limited to launching a front. And it would be good for the country that today the Basque Nationalist Party would support the amendment that we have tabled Elkarrekin Podemos and that it would literally pick up the words that the lehendakari said in this very House less than two months ago. I was trying to tell you how we're on an historic road. Today, Euskati is passing a train, 1998. a train that hasn't been around since. A train of historical agreement. An agreement that is transversed, an agreement which is the most extensive of our present history; an agreement to make the ideas, identitys, and identitys known to the new state. On the other day Mr. Egg said that violence was an excuse not to talk about these matters. I dare say that different violences experienced in this country were a real inconvenience to defend certain political ideas so far as to repay them with life. But it is certain that at the present day violence is something past, that we must cultivate a great deal of the past, yes. And the past to draw out certain ethical studies, but the past. We have a present today that allows us to make a deal of at least five parties. We have a day. There would be five of us, if the Popular Party were to change its attitude, but it's obvious that this four-sided deal has an enormous potential for our life. And it's actually not easy, it's not easy, but it's time for choice to take the path of the patriotic block or to build a town with room for all of us. These are not absolute choices, they are not one or the other. The project which we can form on four sides would admit our national nature, and we would have for the first time had a legal text that says we're a nation, and, moreover, confirmed in Madrid, it's not a little short. I used to tell them that our society faces major challenges: the challenge of globalization, the challenge of climate change, the loss of national sovereignty in favour of transnational capital, the challenge of equality between women and men, the challenge of the profound transformations that digitization and robotics are going to bring to the world of work and the consequent difficulty in sustaining a state of well-being if not on a radically different basis from the present. Frankly, this is what most should be occupying the debates of self-government and future status. Because the bulk of the articles of that statute will talk about these issues. If the new statute is possible to round about 300 articles or 200 articles, we will have two thirds of them, 200 out of 300, talking about education, talking about public health, employment, public services, social inclusion, equality or which economic sectors to prioritize. So today, the left-handed euscal will shake your hand. We give you the hand of literally what the president said here. A hand to face the hinges I've discussed in order to make an agreement on four sides. We even give you our hand to confess our national character, to confess our variety, to preserve our multiplicity, and to banish any danger of social rupture. We have been from the beginning of the work of the presentation saying this very thing, saying this very thing, the time to make a decision, to choose one way or another they are exhausted, the deadline I've told you before, we think it's legitimate for you to want to go to a nationalist front. They have enough majority, but they know perfectly well that that majority to two in a plural society like Basque is not enough. The path that gentlemen like Markel Olano long for Euskadi or the Catalan roads are a sure path to the social fracture. Today, he has the possibility to solve his internal cultas and to prove that in the Basque Nationalist Party the line is one and not two. That the line is that of the lehendakari and not another. We'll see what they're voting for, or we'll see if they dare directly to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u63	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u64	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, egun on. Look, the Basque Socialists reiterate our commitment to improving self-government so that it will continue to be useful to citizens by strengthening and expanding their rights, to continue to guarantee plurality in Euskadi and to ensure that it can be implemented with full legal certainty, because it respects legality. And I make this statement at the outset because the initiative of the People's Group is a double trap. Firstly, because he seems to want to agree on a better self-government, when what he is actually trying to do is to place himself at the zero point in the debate. Secondly, because he seems to want to have a debate of self-government, when his interest is in ratifying himself in an excuse that they have had to seek in order not to negotiate the Euskadi budgets for 2019. I am saying this because the initiative we are debating today was announced by Mr Alonso on 5 September in the same terms on the occasion of the beginning of the budgetary procedure. And the Socialists do not understand that the People's Party considers the sovereignist agreement to negotiate Euskadi's budgets incompatible for two months and did not consider it incompatible or improper almost six months ago, when a famous May 23 in the morning, the sovereignist alliance PNV-Bildu takes place on the preamble of the update of the self-government, and a few hours later, that same May 23 in the afternoon, the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party agree on the general state budgets for 2018. It's a less picturesque and revealing situation. On the subject of self-government, until the presentation of this initiative the position of the People's Party has been precisely that of not considering any reform of the Statute of Gernika necessary. Mr. Alonso said that today in the rostrum. Although they now justify their initiative by praising the parliamentary mandate of 2017 for the good approach of including the reference to maximum consensus and the current legal order, that mandate was won by your group, Mr Alonso, not by the Group of the European People's Party when it was debated in this House. In their particular vote, which they tabled in July, with regard to the updating of self-government, the conclusion reached by the People's Party, beyond the rejection of the bases, is that it was necessary to put an end to this issue of updating self-government. No resuming jobs, putting the lock on the paper. And in September, you propose to an expert to participate in these works of articulation of the updating of the self-government, of the articulation of the bases, which is contradictory to asking that such works be paralyzed. And this is the big difference with the socialist position, because we socialists do believe that we are facing an opportunity to modernise the competitive tools that allow us to improve the life of the citizenry and also deepen the social cohesion of our community. Because the Socialists have worked hard on that opportunity in the paper. We have studied the original proposals made by the other parliamentary groups; we have tried to incorporate wills that we considered to be broadly shared; we have contrasted each position with constitutional doctrine and what has been done in other communities. And we continue to think that there are many coincidences about the expansion of social rights, the updating of our competences, the modernisation of our public authorities, and our adaptation to Europe. And the Socialists are convinced that we can face up to the updating of self-government, without overflowing the rules of coexistence that we have agreed, without violating the legal order. And the Basque Socialists give extraordinary importance to what the self-government that we have is, because it has allowed us to live the greatest and best time of progress that Euskadi has ever known. The one that makes us responsible for our health, our education, our Ertzaintza, our income guarantee income and even our Basque public radio-television and even the economic concert, because we can be more or less in agreement with how it is managed, but they are our responsibilities. And the Basque Socialists attach great importance to the Statute of Gernika, for its value, for its value and for the value it must continue to have as a pact of coexistence in a Basque society of extraordinary plurality, extraordinary for its diversity and extraordinary also for the richness that this plurality entails. And that is what cannot and should not be despised in the work ahead of us. That is why the Socialists disagree with the agreed basis and we have a proposal that we put forward by registration and we register it; because the majority wanted to look for a nationalist synthesis rather than a synthesis of broad and pluralistic consensuses. Our intention was for the preamble to solemnize the project of political community that we intended to articulate, with the aspects that uniqueize the self-government of Euskadi and with its legal and constitutional fit in the project shared with Spain and with Europe. We wanted from the frontline of the new pact to recognize the plurality of identities and feelings that exist in our Basque society, made up of men and women on an equal footing. We wanted the preamble to underline the value of the political agreement of the current Statute, which has survived even the terrorist clash, which highlighted the singularities already admitted and legally developed; historical rights contained in the additional provisions of the Constitution and also in the Statute of Autonomy, the Economic Concert, the co-officiality of Basque or Basque civil law. In short, that preamble should define what we want to be from what we have been. But what has been agreed between the Basque Nationalist Party and Bildu is what some want to become from what very partially we have been in our history. And it also does it outside the legal system. And the Basque Socialists want to be absolutely clear and that is why we have put forward the alternative proposal. Our project is a project of social rights, not national rights. Because in social rights we can see ourselves all represented; in national rights, not just some. Our project is federal, not confederal, and for good it is necessary to change the Constitution, in addition to where it should be done, in the General Courts. Our project is limited to the people and the territory where it can be applied, which is to whom we live in Álava, Gipuzkoa or Bizkaia, and not to be projected in other territories that already have their own political, legal and legal and institutional articulation. The Socialists have already said that this preamble was not innocuous, however much they were committed to softening it. It was not because, as we explained in that particular vote, the preambles and explanatory statements in the laws are then the ones that allow interpretation of the articles that develop a posteriori and express nationalist rights, as has been done, that not rights, leads to the rest of its content being developed under that single nationalist vision. Thus, the first thing mentioned in the preliminary title is, precisely, the proclamation of the right to self-determination, no matter how much it is seen with euphemisms that sound better, and they are dangerously confronted with the democratic principle and the principle of legality, giving priority without nuances to the majority will regardless of what is laid down in the agreed rules. The nationalist majority also introduces categories of citizenship and distinguishes between citizenship and nationality. As much as it is intended to sweeten this issue, it is very clear that there must be first-rate citizens and second-rate citizens. Citizenship will have all the rights, but those who identify themselves as nationals will also have others, others that will already be seen in the law enacted by the Basque Parliament. And we're still waiting for someone to clarify what rights other than citizenship are being thought of for those so-called national ones. In addition, on the bases a fund of endless power is proposed to assume competences and powers a la carte that develop in the rest of the articulated. And when the socialists detected from the preamble the nationalist intentions in the background and in the procedure for establishing the bases, what we decided was that we were not going to participate in any form of makeup. The particular vote put forward by the Socialists is intended to be a compendium of the coincidences that would allow us to expand that pact of coexistence that has given us the best and the longest period of progress in Euskadi. A pact to broaden people's rights, to adapt competences to social reality, to distribute these competences among the Basque public authorities at their various institutional levels, to reorder internal relations between institutions in order to gain efficiency and efficiency in the provision of public services and to guarantee rights. A new pact of coexistence in a society of free and equal men and women, with plurality of feelings, with plurality of identities. The reform of the Statute of Gernika, the updating of the Basque self-government, ladies and gentlemen, requires, in order not to be a failure, majority agreements but also plural agreements. It requires competitive clarity, mutual institutional loyalty, solidarity and legality. And the Basque Socialists will continue to work for this update of self-government from the conviction and the defense that it is possible a proposal for the future for Basque citizenship that goes through this plurality, through coexistence, equality, solidarity and legality, as it could not be otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Passing over to those who have no corrections, the representative of the EH Collector. Mrs. Irorart is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u66	Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning. I want to thank Mr. Alonsus for the Party. Happy birthday because your initiation is original today. The smallest part of this parliament, represented by 10 percent of votes, demands a debate to be forgotten until he agrees. An agreement to cancel until you agree with the entire majority. Mr Alonso must be acknowledged that the effort is innovative. The smallest party in the House, with 10% of the vote, asks Parliament to do its best to park Mrs. Carme Forcadell has already been imprisoned and is still in prison. And here in our country there were already other frauds some years ago, they already tried to place Major Oreja and they had to finally settle with Patxi López in the Lehendakaritza, after having decided to illegalize hundreds of thousands of votes, hundreds of thousands of votes. Look, Mr. Aronso, your initiation is an attitude which shows clearly the imperialist position of your party and in general the imperialist Spanish nationalism: "You can't talk about what I don't like because I said so." This has been your position in the past centuries and you remain in it, and it has had many names throughout history, but now we will call it "the right of faith." And it's really gravity to think, that anyone can have a right to decide the future. You have been accustomed for centuries to command and to be obeyed, but stick, and stick by jumping everything. And of course, they do not understand that someone tells them that this is over, that here there is a mature society, that there is a modern society that aspires to be free and that will not tolerate impositions or vetoes, that it is time for democracy, demokrazia of the balio duen instrumentu bakarra. Perhaps you are now aiming at that concept as cryptic as it is that of transversality, perhaps that is; but it is that you see only one axis in Basque life, only one and the same we could say of your partners of 155, which is that of national identity and in that identity obsession for maintaining the unity of Spain you are willing to charge yourself with the most elementary rules of democracy. But where you do not see enough agreement, I will tell you that this agreement has the vast majority of this Parliament, which represents the majority of the citizens of Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia. A transversal, transversal agreement of the whole, that unites men and women, young and old, people of the left, of the right, with their most varied nuances, born here, born out, people of the coast, of the interior, people of the peoples, people living in the cities, because the nuances, the axes, on which the real life of Basque citizenship moves are much richer than you would like. Only those who live obsessed with the unity of Spain oppose this, only those who consider that democracy must be sacrificed on the altars of the homeland. I think it would be useful to continue to review more concepts, because in the face of his apocalyptic discourse that giving the people the word produces division and confrontation, it must be made clear that the premise is false; it divides and confronts, and I said it in the plenary of general politics, who denies freedom, not who asks it; divides and confronts those who deny democracy and not who demands it. Political freedom, both of the individuals and collectives, are a fundamental element in the formation of a modern society. The social rights and political rights of the people cannot be divided, otherwise they may become either a gift, or a gift, or an offering connected with the communion, and we daily see witnesses and examples of this law, and we have seen them even to-day. And you know it well too. It is not possible to make a long list of social rights if we have no political ability to determine them. Therefore we must be absolutely master of our political rights, if we do not wish to continue the defence which we have hitherto maintained. And among these rights, the right of free self-determination occupies a prominent place, yes. The right of self-determination of peoples, recognized in article 1 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The UN Human Rights Committee itself has stressed the fundamental nature of this right, stressing that it is a basic requirement for the full realization of individual human rights. We are speaking of human rights in the end of democracy; we are not speaking of the model of government which is independent of independence or independent of a Basque State. By the way, I'll tell you that every day we work for an independent Basque republic so that you can't doubt it. But now we are talking about the democratic will of the Basque people, that that democratic will must be recognized and respected. That recognition of the will and of our people, that acceptance of the democratic will is the key to the vault on which the principles that we have adopted in the Basque Parliament are based. Any future solution for the Basque people, but also for Catalonia or for other peoples with similar aspirations, must accept and integrate this democratic recognition. On the basis, therefore, of the right to decide, the Basque Parliament's proposal raises a relationship between the Basque territories and the Spanish State, effectively bilateral, bilaterally understanding an equal relationship, in which one party cannot impose its will on the other and a bilaterality provided with sufficient elements of control, with precise guarantees for cases in which there is no agreement. The Basque territories, in this way, would have all the instruments of self-government, all the instruments of self-government necessary to be able to develop all the public policies that their citizenship needs, and only since the previous bilateral agreement could these instruments be shared or given in favour of state, community or international structures. It does not fulfill all the aspirations of Euskal Herria Bildu, but so far it is impeccable. It would be ignorant of the reality to pretend that the path we set out is going to be simple, more in view of what state we have before us, but the difficulty of the company is not going to lead us to inaction or resignation. The approach of the political majority of the Basque Parliament has not only the key elements for a lasting solution, but also offers political and legal avenues for its implementation. These paths go through an interpretation of historical rights based on respect for democratic rules, the democratic principle, the majority decision of the citizens of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, which is a mature citizen. It is the ability to decide that, in essence, it means that the democratic legitimacy of a clear and majority social manifestation of totally or partially altering the legal-political status cannot be unknown from the parameters of a democratic rule of law. In democracy, there is a need to address a bilateral process of negotiation between the territorial authorities questioned. The use of repressive means to prevent debates and to prevent the democratic channelling of political demand is a clear abuse of power and seriously undermines the democratic quality of those who want to use such means, and a low-quality democracy will not be able to meet the challenges we face in the twenty-first century. It is time, I believe, for the Spanish State to shake its inability for centuries and begin to behave as an adult democracy, that does not imprison it, that does not illegalize it, that does not beat the one who only pretends to hear his voice or those who enforce the mandate of the citizenry. Finally, I want to thank you, Mr. Alonso. In fact, we've been able to see in it what we think is a very important deal. This agreement will be more important today, thanks to your initiation, because this association, though indirectly, will be protected by the majority. This agreement will take another step today, step by step. In Brussels, the Parliament of Europe, which created you so much of a hawk, as I said to Josephess, because ours is not greatness, because ours is freedom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u68	Good morning, everyone. I don't know how many times in these eight months we'll be coming to discuss this room of the legislature around the auto-beron, why some of them used to say that they were bored, and "the day of the class" and the rest, and now, where the Party itself brings the subject. But from quietness and also from the firmness of my opinion, Lander Martíne knows before he knows what we're going to vote for, we've talked about it. If, then, you know that our vote is opposed to action, and even against justice, but especially for a reason, why, for some reason, any one might be tempted to say: "Well, we'll re-establish the supported foundations." No, they're confirmed! They are not PNV's, nor are they of Podemos in a section; they are the foundations of the legislature, and there is a band of labour in the work. But the attitudes you see, the one to stop, the retardation, jam, freeze, resurrect... What does that mean? Why, too, one does everything in the name of the continent, and one sees that, instead of going forward, some one likes the legtress. Beno, Alfonso Alonso berak zioen, and the tone, thanking the tone and respect, but also some fixation in this of the warnings, already warned us with that of "with so much commitment in the right to decide they may end up losing the ability to decide that they have". In the context of 155 we were told this, it was that debate. Well, then, when you're warned and they say, "No, don't push so hard that it's still taken away from you until what you have," you see that the self-government has some limits, Muga Batzuk badituela, eta oinarri bezala esaten da: "Aizu, eman zaizun autogobernua kentzeko modukoa izan daiteke. Ematen said age kentzen said." Hori da autonomeren nolabaiteko beingtasuna edo zutabea. And none of the words of Juan Louis Ibar yesterday ought to be useless, and not to be jested. They're serious words. The right of expression, he may say, is evident to my opinion, that the ground of state is being placed in the middle of the square. That didn't happen by chance, yesterday, and there's adbertity. And yesterday's words, well, there's "involocar." I don't know if it's a sin. Or else the planning is done: "exiien apoyo." It seems that from the Tribunals there are now to be said what the excretion is. And it is said, and this is a constant one, both the Social Party and the Popular Party: "City is like multiplicity and patriotism or nationalism." These are some, some supple, some self-respecting multiplicity, others dispersal. And besides, it's connected later with the community affairs, and I think those debates are so much overdone, that he who does it makes a fool of himself. No one believes it, no one believes it. And he is not very ill or sure of himself who does so. Why we have the integrated and integrated eupscal society, who believes in equality, believes in social justice, of all the Basques, without leaving anyone out. And what happens is that this society, this people, wants to write and win its future, wants to win the future. And that's why all the Basque organizations participated in this integrated strategy, and I think even on basic grounds, and all of them are essential themes, these principles are present. The thing is, why not? It's called. Or to whom does it harm? We did a previous exercise, which is prejudicial to more self-reverbs. And we stopped, at least a few, for the majority, that more auto-gourgers do no harm to this people. Not to the people, not to any individual. But there is, and I think there is, as a concept, a very obvious uniformity of constitutionalism. And it's a matter of superiority. If we have an integrated people, an integrated people, why shouldn't we let them make their own way? In concerts, compacts, but with a good political agreement between the neighbors, an agreement for life. That's what's finally in our hands here. I do not know what consequences the committee will have for eight months, but they are quite democratic here and here, although we may play with a democratic basis and a basis of legislation, it is evident that a democratic principle cannot impose any other foundation without doing anything else. No, we have to negotiate. And that which a democratic principle ordains, every actor ought to endeavor to make a law with those of his own country and its own political representation. That's what we got. And when we say: "Let us open it from these stones," we say: "Let us stretch out our feet on the ground, And let us open [the] Rabshakeh. Why can't it be? For here the games of multiplicity are very easy. It's said: "Your arrangement is not multiple." Are we the same? No. We're not the same. There are many of them, including themselves and us in them, as we are in all political parties. Are we not all political parties? Well, 28 and 18 are 46. This agreement is of no value, "exigia mayoría," as Juan Luis Ibar says, opening the debat of the will. Let's say there's another majority, the Jalt Party, the Social Party Socialist, and Podemus in total 48, two more. Is one more than the other? The representative is received in two parliamentaries; is it more numerous? Yeah? And that's worth it? And would you not satanize them, or even establish them in their ends and principles? Because there's a lot of that. Let's play another combination. They, the EH Collectors, are 18 and 11, 39, plus 9. 48. Is this also many, but is it more numerous than the other? Because he has a bigger representative in two parliamentaries? Or PNV-PSOE and PP? We don't get that right. 28 plus 18, 9 plus 9, 46. So let's get down on the ground, you know the foundations, and you know that they are democratic, and that the future of this people is born to win, not the future of a political party, to win the future of this people, and see if there is a way to extend them by the contributions of experts. We shall see, but all these pre-jugations must be put aside, otherwise there will be no possible course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u69	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u70	Thank you, Madam President. I see Mr. Egibar in charge of the nationalist roller making us the arithmetic of how many votes more than others he has and how he can use them. And he wondered – it is worth remembering these things, of course – about the limits. Of course there are limits to self-government, power has limits. You say, "My will can change reality. I want to change reality, you have to let me apply my will to change reality, that's politics." It is that sometimes we discuss things that are pre-political, of course that is politics, a game of wills. A rule was invented that was liberal democracy so that that exercise of the will would have limitations, would have limitations that protected rights. It's very old, it's that I don't know why you have to explain the most basic things, and of course the fundamental limitation is the law. The will cannot be developed or deployed outside the law. This principle is accepted by everyone, no matter how much you have a majority, you will have a majority to do what the law allows you to do, and your freedom must be circumscribed and deployed within the scope of the law. Then you can add up a number of parliamentarians, but there is another number that you cannot forget are the 169 articles of the Spanish Constitution. 169, Mr. Egibar. I don't know if you're religious – and I'm also going to get into that which is bad tone – if you think God is omnipotent, but you think the PNV is omnipotent. Well, it's not omnipotent. For some in this House, the agreement you have reached is a huge step forward and we appreciate it. They used to say, "If you think different from most people, either you leave town or we shoot you." Man, they've made a lot of progress. For you it is a great setback, because now they tell us: "You can stay in the village, but let it be clear that you are not of the village". That's what they're asking us, a big breakthrough for some, a big setback for others. Where are we? Let's go back. I tell you that we should live together on an equal footing, even if you command, and have the power, on an equal footing that guarantees us the law, and that the play of our wills, which are opposed, be arbitrated under the rules of democracy. And so, if Mrs Iriarte, who, despite being so small, appreciates me so much and I no longer know how to recognize her because she speaks a lot about my humble person and my group, is against the unity of Spain, she has the legitimacy recognized by the laws, because this is an open democracy, of being against the unity of Spain and wanting to change that situation. What does not have the right is to destroy the unity of Spain without considering the Spaniards, who are the owners of their country and who are the owners of their unity of Spain. And therefore, if you want to do so you will have to follow the path to do so. And perhaps in that area he finds that he does not have a majority, but he cannot pretend to move the scope of the smallest, which I have a majority, and here I am going to change what is there. The Constitution cannot be changed from the Basque Parliament. Mrs Corcuera and the Socialist Party often buy that idea, here is a reform of the Statute and talk about a federal constitution. Apples bring me. That's his theme. Then, hey!, they make a permanent mess, because they set up a committee in the Congress of Deputies and we did not come here to talk about constitutional reform and the PNV does not appear. That's how they treat you. You have the right to happiness and I recognize it. We are all very concerned if socialists are happy, and more socialists than they are ever happy in the Basque Country today because they have office. It seems very good to me, that is their right to happiness, and if they do not feel happy because Tezanos will be coming and will do a survey and say that the Socialist Party of Euskadi becomes the first political force in Euskadi. They don't care because what they're doing is looking away. Don't you realize that your government partner has left with Bildu? And not in a minor matter, most importantly. Haven't you noticed that, don't you feel uncomfortable in this situation, Mrs. Corcuera? That's what's happening, don't throw at me. From your speech I buy a lot of words, I agree with you in defending the principle of legality, but realize what the situation is and pressurise, because you are not playing the role to which you were committed to ensuring that if you were in government the PNV would not be thrown into the wind. They have climbed the mountain, they are on the mountain with these people, they are already there, and therefore they are not exercising that role, and I ask you to do so with determination and to tighten there. I shouldn't come here to fight, because I really want to get along with you, and I've always wanted to. In July they approved those bases, it was in July; in June they had already done other things in Madrid, but in July they approved those bases, and that to me – I have said from the beginning to Mr Lehendakari, who is now absent – is an extraordinary political difficulty. And I do not ask you to give up your ideas, although some of them are obvious that I do not share them, and I consider that even some of them are poorly democratic, some of them, and I have argued that. "not your lordships or the person of your lordships." And I don't ask you to change them, you can believe what you want and be nationalists and be independent or not, that's your issue, and you have the right to your proposal. I don't want you to change your mind, I want you to change your position, I want us to go back to where we were before. I believe that Basque society wants us not to get into trouble and does not want us to go on adventures and does not want us to be in that encounter and does not want those bases and, moreover, is that it does not believe it and does not want to believe it, and if it does not want to believe it, what cannot be will happen is that what Mrs Iriarte has announced with all reason, that today those bases will have more legitimacy and support because although she said: "In a collateral way"...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u71	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u72	I'm done, Madam President, thank you very much. She said, "In a collateral way," but today those bases will also be voted for by the lehendakari Urkullu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u73	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u74	Before we go in, I'd like to clarify our vote. We will refuse the project of the Populative Party, because we do not enter into our proposition and our correction to discuss the grounds. It is clear, and as we have said, that there is a legitimate majority here, that of the Jeltzini and the Basque People, in order to bring it forward, because the State of Guernica leaves it so, that this majority says the numbers which this majority requires are held by the Jeltth Party and by the Basque People. But therefore we make a correction, where, as we have often said, we have often said, it would be bad for our people not to have this majority more extensive and numerous, it would be bad for our people to take the road to a front. If we take the basis, if we take its content and go to the bottom, beyond using some words or others, use some terms or others, there is a certain vision of country that comes to draw an identification of a people, a nation, a language, an identity, a right, a history... This is further reflected in paragraphs 14 and 16 in the preamble. There's a German sociologist, Ulrich Beck, who coined a term, which was "methodological nationalism," which looks a lot like what I'm describing. And that conception directly collides with the idea of a plural society. The difference between Euzko Alderdi Jeltzalea, between Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, is that you see a single people, with a language, an identity and a history, and that the Basque left, on the other hand, we are able to affirm that Basque citizenship has unique and own cultural elements without questioning that in our society there are different languages, there are different cultures, there are different identities, that the same, ours, does not clash with the very plurality of our society, without going into talking about the architectural differentiation between citizenship and nationality. As I said, we believe that in our amendment we can find a very large majority in this House. These are the literal words of the lehendakari. The PNV should not be inconvenient in supporting them, really; I do not think the PSE either. From what I have heard Euskal Herria Bildu I think he likes less, because they believe that nothing more is needed than the votes that already have that, as I said, is legitimate. Mr. Egibar, the matter is in your hand. We saw him on 20 September, in the general policy plenary, make an amendment to the whole of the lehendakari. Today your group has the possibility to say whether the line that is imposed is that of the lehendakari or its own, or to move forward in clarifying at once between you what will be the final position of your group. Of course, it would be an unprecedented thing if the party of the lehendakari did not vote in favour of the words of this, and "unpublished", besides, I think it remains short to describe this scene. I told you in my first speech that the moment your party, the Basque Nationalist Party, would have to decide once on one path or another was approaching, and I think that time was today, but you have already told me clearly that you are going to vote against it. I do not know whether the Lehendakari will return to the plenary to vote, perhaps his group has had the deference not to force him to vote against his own words today, but with what you have said, with that vote against which he is going to table our amendment, they will honestly leave his own Lehendakari without any credibility. Nothing you say from now on will matter the least, because we will all know that your party does not support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u75	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u76	Yes, thank you, President. And as Mr. Egibar said, "From quiet and firmness." The Basque Socialists continue to think that we have a great opportunity to improve our self-government, which, moreover, can expand the foundations on which to build a project for the future for Euskadi, in which no one feels excluded or excluded, and also without giving up the approaches that each has. Mr. Egibar commented that threats and warnings are being put on the table by different agents. I would recommend that Mr Egibar read again the mandate of the parliamentary agreement that we arrived at on 26 January 2017, because there was an express reference to the issue of the legal order, as far as this presentation should go in the articulation of a text on the basis of which we approved in that presentation for the Government's update, but on the basis of respect for the legal order. And it says so expressly. And another, in what is the government agreement signed between socialists and nationalists for the part of more and better self-government, also points out in the fourth point, of the update of the statutory pact, it is said that the "power will establish or agree the most appropriate formula and procedure for the elaboration of a draft articulated text that launches a reform of the Statute of Gernika, respecting the legal order". That is the agreement between Basque socialists and nationalists. Therefore, Mr Alfonso Alonso, I am glad that you think of our happiness or that you are concerned about our happiness. Don't worry, I really don't need to. Because the socialists are not thinking about our own happiness. And yes for something we are in a government, yes for something we have also been in the opposition, it is to improve the quality of life of Basque citizens; to make social projects, more integrated and more advanced projects, for that we are socialists in offices and offices, and when we are not being part of a government, we are also in the opposition working with budgetary agreements, to improve that quality of life of Basque citizens. For that, in many cases, we have also left our skin and even our lives. So don't worry so much about our happiness. Secondly, Mr Egibar also said, who can be harming self-government, or more self-government, who can be harming? No one, there's nothing wrong with having more self-government and better self-government. How will it affect anyone? Where's the problem? In breaking the rules of play, in breaking those covenants that we had given ourselves, in breaking the framework of that plurality and coexistence. There's the bad thing, there it starts to disengage, and we meet or you can find part of Basque society excluded, and you know it. This debate is not that it is a rarity debate between constitutionalist unionists or nationalists. He's not going that way. You know you don't go that way. The dramatic thing about this story is that we are taking years and years with a theme of self-government that has produced us the best stage of progress in Euskadi and that we are not able, or I do not see that we can be able, with the approaches we have heard today in this House, to make future generations meet with a pact of coexistence, not equal, better than what we now have. And that's not happening. Because a part of that agreement on the bases between Bildu and the PNV is excluding a part of society that we form that so-called plurality. You have been in a crooked debate when you intended to ask us quantity against quality. What's not, what's not 46, 48, two up, two down! It is necessary to be plural, plural in ideology. And it seems to me a lie to have to be doing this reading here today, when others in past generations were able to agree, in a few moments, moreover, circumstantially, in a society far more convulsive than the one we are currently living, were able, with absolutely different ideologies, to agree that pact of coexistence, to make that pact of coexistence of the Statute of Autonomy of 79. And it seems to me a lie that today, with all the preparations that we are here in this House, the 75 parliamentarians, we are not able to articulate those common foundations in what unites us to make that pact of coexistence, that new status, that new self-government, and to update it with better conditions. That's what I find really painful, really painful. And that we're here to see who's taking the machito, who's more, who's better, who's got that majority... That it's not about majorities! What needs to be done is to be more integrative! And if we have not managed to know that and do that and propose at work to be more inclusive, not at the expense of anything, not at the expense of any consensus, because it is a majority, it is that it has not been worth having been so long and so many years working on an issue that could have found a very, very sensible course in Basque politics and society today. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u78	You talk about the front when you don't want to talk about democracy. And you speak of democracy, when you have great difficulty in speaking of democracy, ladies and gentlemen. The State of Spain continually oppresses and oppresses, without shame private and collective democratic rights. It is radically undemocratic to dissolve a parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Radically anti-democratic. It is radically undemocratic to use the National High Court and the Supreme Court to criminalize representatives of the popular will. And we're seeing him in Catalonia, but we've seen him in Euskal Herria over and over again. The political use of the courts has been a constant one. And for example, the recent Bateragune judgment You, Mrs. Corcuera, speak of the fact that we want more self-government. Indeed, we want more self-government. And how? How do we want more self-government? How do you get more self-government? Making the list of buying the self-government we want? And how do we implement that self-government? What political capacity do we have to implement that self-government? Not much, none, because the entire Statute of Gernika is brushed or under the magnifying glass of the Constitutional Court or, of course, lowered to unsuspecting points. It's not what you remembered. It's not what made that deal. It's very clear, Mrs. Corcuera. I spoke before the courts, and I would not like to forget either Mr Ibarra, who would have to make his institutional role clearer. He is not the one to say what this Parliament can or cannot approve. It also does not internalize the principle of division of powers. It is up to this Parliament to legislate, to legislate freely, according to the majority will of society. And the judiciary, as well as the president of the High Court, must apply the laws passed by this Parliament, like them more or like them less. The problem of the Spanish State, one more than it has, is that the judiciary also wants to direct politics and is built to safeguard the essences of the homeland, the unity of Spain and all these things. And another very serious problem is that, when the President of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Basque Country tells this Parliament yesterday that it does not even intend to approve the right to decide, it is surrounded by military and civilian guards, which is not less, because we all know what that means. Mr Martínez, your speech with prejuice. And besides, you conceal from a legalist argument, which is not in any way innocent, that this right of deciding, because you want it, should not be taken up, should not be contained in those principles and principles which we have admitted. So it's not the kind of reading you're making when you're innocent. I've told you so many things about transverse and I've told you how I see transverse. I think you can agree with me to see transverse in my definition. In any case, I think you have an eye in Spain and another in the Social Party, and then you're distracting it completely, and in these cases, generally, between original and copy, people favor the original. But Podemos has a good chance together, who has not said to-day that you have a point on us, and I think you ought to remark, because it is not that the half-night cough of the goat is not at all at all, and that I think so is your agreement. Yours too, don't get rid of that deal. And put aside the discourse of identity and other lies. He says that all men and women who live and work in the Basque Country are entitled to all rights. And then, if I don't want to be Spanish, and I don't want to, I can be a Basque national, without any other precepts, and be a Spaniard who wants to be a Spaniard. We are speaking of democracy with grave words, of rights, of serious words, and of women and men who live here with a much better life.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u80	I've seen you try, Lander, out of this tribe and out of here, I don't know what a contradiction you're trying to find in the team of the Jestric Party. Look, there's a recommendation. each of you has a lot of work at home, and I think you have a job, and the law of clarity you like so much. Alderdi Sozialist. Mrs Corcuera has read the text of the Government's agreement. All right, that's it, but that goes on. That agreement has an addendum. Do not start the creed for "Poncio Pilate", because it will turn out that the crucified is him and not Jesus Christ. No, no, That's got an addendum. And in the Government's agreement it means that there was also going to be talk about the right to decide, the democratic principle, the principle of legality, and a number of other issues, many issues. So, we had agreed that that was going to be dealt with, even if we had positioning autonomy. That's right. And he said that at this point he didn't understand how we could have these debates so much from another time, but if it's really the problem in which it beats that which is said to be "political conflict" or "historical conflict", in the end, in the end, if we admit the existence of a political legal subject Basque people. If that's the bottom line. The fact that there is a prevailing identity, in addition to a constitutional recognition, about another reality that is the Basque national, but not recognized as such constitutionally. If that is the key to the solution, if any, for the particular "political conflict". And he also said something else, to break the frame or not to break the frame, and this I'm going to hijack or relate to something that Alfonso Alonso also said, with so much appeal to legality. And what about the current Statute? What's going on? We're going for 40 years! We want to restore the damaged, of course collect what remains to be transferred and increase the quantum. And what about the damaged and unfulfilled? How old do they have to be? That is also one of the reasons that today forces us to reflect and determine that there has to be a qualitative leap in the level of relationship. Look, as they were making so much invitation, to those who maintain or share this position I would encourage them to propose the reform of the current Statute to repeal the articles that have not been complied with, because then it would come close to a legal and real statute. For example, they may promote a modification of Article 18 to the fifth transitional, also that relating to the economic regime of security, of course, or that of passive policies, Article 12, or the question determining the participation of Basque institutions in the public sector, banking and insurance, etc., etc. Up to 37 subjects. You can promote an initiative to repeal the unfulfilled articles. Then we would start talking about what status we have had, what political will there has been at different times. Hori gives germatazzen dena. Horregatik exaten dugu honek aldaketa bat behar duela. That it needs a qualitative change, or paradigm change, that is not so much "to agree in Spain" as "to agree with Spain". Recognition, bilaterality, respect. That's the point. Is it so difficult to articulate a system of political coexistence, a good relationship of political neighbourhood, each with the subjects to be managed by being fully competent, with shared subjects? Is it so difficult to articulate a system of political coexistence? That is what these bases and principles are proposing. There's nothing else to talk about. That's the paradigm shift. It is not a question of continuing in a subordinate relationship, "agreing in Spain", but of moving to a new parameter of relationship and respect and agreeing "with Spain".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u81	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as a Potula. We can vote. [[Pause]] Let's see if we're voting the original population text. Yeah? Okay. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 8; counters, 63; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u82	So it's not accepted. Next, together at Podemos. Wait, wait, wait. [[Berber]] In the first one? Well, let's vote again. Goazen berriro bozkatzera. Votamos, other original text than Euskal Popula, which was first discussed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u83	So, not allowed original text. After that, we'll vote together for the full correction of Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 45; white, 0; abstain, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u84	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And in the end, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialist. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 45; white, 0; abstinence, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u85	So it's not accepted. The whole meeting is cut off until about four-fifteen. It was two and twenty-two in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-six.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u86	We'll go back to the whole meeting. Theme list 6 dot: "Phum up the propose of the parliamentary teams to put an end to the serious work-makers of a high-speed train, a discussion and a final solution." In turn of the proposed team, the Representative of the EH Collect group has the word to present and defend its own initiative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u87	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good evening. "High-speed train", "high-mortality train", "high-precarious train", "train we don't know if we're going to have a train", "train that doesn't go anywhere", "train without meaning", "train that has already charged nine deaths", that we know... Nine deaths, nine persons, who have lost their lives, with names, surnames, familys, like the rest of them; but they seem not to have the same rights as other people. Why do I say that? For because nothing happens, because nothing happens, or because it has no effect at all, or because it does not measure by death. For example, is there a silence in this house? Is it done? Or do we make institutional expressions? Do we? Or concentration? Why don't they do it? Those who have lost their lives because they are foreigners or those who have lost their lives are out of work, because they belong to invisible people who have no other job? The deaths of workers, labor strippers, are increasing, with the model of opposition, with the law, with the power of inspection, with Osalan, with the money of everyone, with everyone's finance... And this government does nothing. Well, I'm gonna be generous. I won't say he's doing nothing, I'll say he's hardly doing anything. Yes, the government has become both an inspection and an Osalan as accomplice to enpres, and has become an accomplice to enpres, and that's what's going on. I'd rather not talk about this damn train. If we weren't going to talk about this damn train, because this train is quite superfluous, we can't forget the workers working there as if they were slaves. And today we're going to focus on those employees. So, to begin with, there is a question that we ask: why do we need inspections and Osalan? Why, if they don't have the courage to do their duty? And, moreover, the representatives of the unions who work in public works require data from Osalan and from Vision, and require proofs. They, vision and Osalan, when they are to find the evidence, when they have to investigate it, when they have to look for the data. And besides, Osalan hasn't done it yet, or at least hasn't introduced it, we don't know what he's done about his last death. So, seeing what we've seen, and taking advantage of the 25th anniversary of the creation of Osalan, what we need to do here is a deep restructuring of Osalan. It may be time to do so, apart from the celebrations. And it should also be time to do something with vision, seeing what paper they're playing. For of course, why waste public money on organisms that don't work? For with fables, we are beginning to grow weary of the novels of fiction: We want efficiency, we want measurements where the public work is performed. And above all things, we don't want death because one death cannot be accepted, because it is not acceptable. And here from the institutions, from the government, from the show, he's accepting from Osalan, and there's nothing left here. The last two deaths we know were within 10 days. And when these deaths happened, we would have asked for all our work to remain for us, we will continue to beg and ask for it, but now that we are working for the workers' conditions, I will focus on it. But what are we doing from the institutions with the public money? What are we doing? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You'll know better than I do what we're doing for the two teams that support the government, but this isn't just AHTan. This is what happens in every public work that is fostered and developed from the rest of the public institutions. With public money, public funding, public responsibility... And there are no exceptions here, unfortunately. There are no exceptions. And what's happening? You see, as far as the countergation goes, we go to the work and every tract we can find a lot of quiet about 30 sub-contradictions. Three Subcontractors And I want to remember that it's fun, it's the contractor. I just want to remind you that prices are labeled for allocation. Because one thing is at what price the play comes out, then the companies lower the price to the ground, and then the modified Telita What else is going on? There are companies on construction that don't give their employees nomines. That's right. And besides, they pay them less than 40 percent. And, well, we won't talk about vacation. And we can also find that in nomines there is a salary, but then the workers have to translate an amount. That happens too. And what Covenant do they apply in these works? In the end, is that what you want to do? Is this an example of the new priority of employment which the Urcullu wants to encourage? Because today we found it in the press: "Urkullu pass epleo de calida para fortaller la salud labororal." Is this it? Work conditions. What's going on under the conditions of work? The rhythms of the work are very high: 24 hours a day, 12 hours in blackmails. Besides, the end in a work that has no date. The one who remains for a year, the one who remains standing for a few months, the measures of security that are so. For instance, at this moment, for instance, it's going on for a short time, and the earth's starting to move in the Berara-Benain-Tolosa's knot at the Berga. Oh, and Irunen, what's going on in Irunen? In Irun, testing the line of the encounter, the tunnel was growing. He walks into the tunnel with the company that was associated with him and says: "Money doesn't give me a job here." What's he doing there and now? Is this gonna be a scam, too? In fashion? What's going to happen? Well, this is what's happening, and while it's going on, the people are damaged, and other things. Well, that's the diary about that train that's not going anywhere. It finally happened in a tunnel. In this tunnel, imagine, in 30 meters there were four trucks, four trucks ahead, back, at work. And what are the conditions of work in the tunnel? Who dares access the tunnels? What are the conditions of work in the tunnels? Why isn't Osalan reporting the last report of death yet? Why? Maybe he'd run it yesterday, I don't know. And sometimes the workers who dare accuse all of this are punished. With complicity in view, they are punished. So, in public work, what real conditions do they work in the everyday? What condition do they work on in the day? I don't know. Why does it all allow? What kind of contract does it make? Why does the organization, with everyone's public money, do this? Why is this possible for the workers' shoulders-and profit from them? Well, in our humble opinion, this is the answer to the fact that these public works which are directed are not compatible, either socially or economically. Because they're not accessible. That's it. And for what? To feed some companies. Is that it? Is that the purpose of these works? And why don't we just stop this nonsense? Because if they don't, they fall for their own weight. We're tired of these headlines. And meanwhile, while the work, the nonsense, we'd have to stop talking about it once and for all, it would have to be fun to say, Mrs. San Jose, and I know there's no contraction in your hands, but that's all there's to do, I know, but that's what you can do, you can push him to the end of the long-working chain of contraction, to the end of the contraction, and it's all in the hands of fun. It's all right with you. The workers of work also have rights, like other people, and they have rights. Or have they no right to because they belong to Zamocra, because they belong to Gaul, because they belong to Portugal? That's why they don't have the rights, like other people? We have to put an end to the bleeding of the high-speed train. It has to end because we can't go on like this. Because we can't continue. And if you want to know that it's up to you, you've got to realize that it's in your hands, that it's best for the workers to wash their hands, to sleep, fight and change the model of resistance, to guarantee safety, to have the conditions of work. I think that's the least I can do. And we'll have to figure out what we do with inspection and Osalan. We must consider what the sad everyday reality is: what functions they ought to be, what they ought to do, whether they perform the work or not, and what they ought to do to fulfil their labour. Less celebrations and really the moment should be taken advantage of to take a deep turn to this. And that's why we made this proposal. We've finally had a halfway with Podemos together. We know that it won't go any further, but we hope today's discussion will be useful for real reflection and to end this nonsense, because it's not because we say today, even today, at Osalan's congress, or yesterday, I saw it in the press, or I saw it in a tweet, even Jon Azku has revealed the data. So, ladies and gentlemen, you say it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u89	Good evening, congressmen. Yes, we too hope that it will at least serve as a reflection. We are going to take this opportunity to make our own, because we think that the works of the high speed train developed during the last decade have been characterized by a great job insecurity that has come not on few occasions – on too many occasions – to the absolutely unacceptable. And we believe that today this statement is, or should be, already unquestionable: working hours that far exceed what is permitted by labour regulations and collective agreements, brutal working patterns and pressure on workers motivated by the need for deadlines by contractors and subcontractors. In addition, wages below the corresponding level have been applied and labour rights such as the enjoyment of holidays, days and rest periods, as well as the right to freedom of association, have been consistently violated. There are constant practices of fraud in hiring and non-compliance with social security obligations, including indemnities for dismissal or termination of contracts. Not to mention the obligation to perform tasks not corresponding to the category of the worker or without the appropriate training, which has cost in these works more than a lifetime. All these violations of labour rights, together with already precarious working conditions, have led to a high degree of occupational disaster and a clear high degree of insecurity and lack of occupational health in these works over the past decade. The hundreds of accidents at work, especially the serious accidents and the most serious ones resulting in death, have demonstrated – after further investigation – the overwhelming lack of safety and health in the works of the VAD in recent years. These works, as you know, cost the public coffers billions of euros and generate huge private profits for contractors. For this reason, it seems particularly unacceptable to our group that public works of such high economic cost are being carried out under precarious working conditions and with constant violations of the most elementary labour rights. We think that the management carried out in these great works in our country has proved to be perverse and with harmful consequences for workers: a public contract with almost exclusively economic criteria aimed at minimizing the cost in the contracting companies at the cost of expressing the and the workers; a practice that is not exclusive of the works of the high speed train – we have already said it in some other debate – but that has been evident in a work that moves billions of euros with substantial extra costs, with the participation of many companies, temporary unions of companies, contractors, subcontractors, successions of companies...; a practice that has been evident in works subject to political interests, to propagandistic needs of governments and political parties and, of course, to great economic interests. Standard practices of perverse subcontracting with the same objectives of labour exploitation; successions of enterprises to circumvent employers' obligations; public inability to enforce collective agreements by contractors; and a major lack of coordination in the prevention of labour risks with the most terrible consequences. In our view, all these harmful features in the construction of the high-speed train have been demonstrated through hundreds of union complaints to the labour authority and public institutions, including this House. Complaints that have been denied for a long time by some political parties, construction companies and the public administration, which has therefore ended on numerous occasions in the courts, whose judgments are, in our view, the most evident evidence of the existence of such exploitation and constant violation of labour rights in the works of the high-speed train for too long. We know that these issues are often said to have to be reported to the courts. It seems to us serious because it seems to us that these issues, before forcing workers to go to court, must be resolved politically. We know of the difficulty and fear of working people to denounce these situations. A fear, because you know that workers know perfectly well the consequences for their future job of denouncing these things, especially in a sector controlled by some large companies and, why not say so, by some families with great influence on smaller companies, in a sector where workers are forced to constantly change businesses as some works are completed and others begin. And therefore, workers who know the risk they run if they are identified as annoying or as whistleblowers. In the face of such a situation, we and we believe that the institutions, and in particular the Basque Government, have an obligation to deal with this situation in a special way. In this case we propose to make both serious and rigorous diagnoses about the working conditions and the conditions of occupational safety and health in the works of the high speed train. Diagnostics aimed at taking the necessary measures to put an end to this situation and to ensure that any employment related to the works of the VAD is a decent and good job and, of course, a job with all guarantees in the field of safety and health at work. And that is why we believe that this Parliament should demand this from the government today. We should require special measures, that is what we propose. Special measures, but at the same time simple: to make specific, specific diagnoses, in depth on the actual conditions in which these works are worked. Why the rejection of such a simple proposal? Is there a fear of making that effort? Is there a fear of performing a diagnostic work on actual working conditions in these great works? Is anyone afraid to know the outcome of those diagnoses? Or, above all, that the public is aware of the possible result of these diagnoses? We believe that the outcome of these diagnoses would be something that should be of interest to the Department of Economic Development, the Department of Employment and Social Policy and, of course, the Department of Labour. All three departments. In addition, from our group, we want to stress the need for the government to discuss with the trade unions how to minimize subcontracting and contracting chains, in this case in the works of the TAV. Because we think they are one of the main business tools to circumvent labour obligations of workers' and workers' rights. This is a subject on which we tend to insist a great deal, because these subcontracts make working conditions extremely precarious and endanger the safety and lives of women workers. The lack of coordination in risk prevention between subcontracts, subcontracts and so on has, in our view, clearly been demonstrated over and over again. The Government would have to make every effort to ensure that they were the minimum possible, but the truth is that today they are the norm and nothing is intended to be done about it; on the contrary, they are facilitated and encouraged. We thought that the transaction we have reached EH Bildu and our Elkarrekin Podemos coalition was a transaction that could be backed up by the whole House. In it, I believe that the two elements that could generate the greatest problems for the groups supporting the Government have been eliminated. We do not refer to a halting of the works of the high-speed train while making those diagnoses that we propose, and we eliminate the request we made from our group on the complete elimination of subcontracts. That is why we think that not to respond to this request is to reinforce the arguments of distrust that we have heard in this House by trade union representatives about the impunity with which abuses against workers are committed in a special way in the works of the high-speed train. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u90	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Hernández, I am not going to support this compromise amendment; I have a signature with the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, but I do not think that is why I am an accomplice to anything or anyone. It is true that we have spoken on many occasions in this House, but we will talk again and discuss this issue whenever it is necessary, because it is a fundamental issue for us. I have said this on all occasions when this issue has been brought to this House, that work must in no case be combined with sinestrality or poor working conditions. That is why I have always said this, and I would like to reiterate this here today, it is necessary to take all the necessary preventive measures, to put in place all the necessary mechanisms to prevent any accident, any occupational disease or to ensure good working conditions. In a work of the size of the high-speed train, with several companies involved, it is true, and they are subcontractors, it is essential to carry out specific inspections. Eliminating subcontracts I think it is something, apart from whether you have removed it from the amendment or not, I think it is something that is not possible, that is given in all the works, in all the institutions that commission works, directed by the party that are directed. And of course it is necessary to carry out these complaints when in these subcontracts this leads to a loss of quality in employment. We consider that in a work of the scale of the work of the high-speed train it is necessary to prioritize, and we said this in our amendment, within the inspection activity, as I know is done, the action on this work. Precisely because of what he said, because there are many companies, because they are works in which there are multiple actors involved and, therefore, the prevention and work of the inspection carrying out specific and differentiated actions is essential. As it is necessary to monitor the working conditions, the recruitment, the days that are carried out, that all the preventive measures are fulfilled... It is necessary to ensure that there is no precariousness. I agree with you on that, and it is necessary to make any relevant complaints and, of course, the one who makes that complaint has no consequence to make it. It is therefore necessary, as I said, to carry out the inspection. I think we agree on that. But I believe that a number of statements have been made here, and I believe that sometimes, Mr Hernández, I accuse you of being maximalist and trembling, I believe that today Mrs Ubera has passed several – as we say in swimming – several long ones, because it has given the feeling that Osalan and that the labour inspection are absolutely crossed in arms, Mrs Ubera. Well, you said it. EH Bildu has long said that Osalan and the Labour Inspectorate were looking elsewhere. I think that, in addition to being absolutely unfair, is radically false. It's just not like that. It's not like that. Osalan participates in the commissions of monitoring and prevention of occupational risks in public works and large infrastructures in which the Labour Authority, the Labour Inspectorate, the authority in the field of mines, the deputies, the public enterprises, where the unions also participate... Joint visits are carried out to the works and, therefore, also to these works of the TAV, between Osalan and the Labour Inspectorate. He speaks on the initiative of the deaths produced in the works of the TAV. We from here want to say that all these deaths must be investigated, and we agree with that statement that there can be no more death, but as far as I know, and I say it with reservations, as far as I know, of the investigations carried out, the last two deaths, the July one was due to a heart attack and the last worker was a car that had not put the hand brake on and crushed the worker. They are regrettable deaths, absolutely regrettable, and I agree with you, but they are deaths that were not directly due to a lack of security measures in the work of the VAD; which does not mean that they should not be demanded each and every one of these security measures. It is true that, apart from these two deaths, there have been more deaths in the works of the TAV. Deaths which we condemn, which we ask to be investigated at the time and which I hope will not happen again, but which any death or any accident at work, we ask to be investigated and all necessary measures to be put in place, that all necessary inspections be carried out, so that this does not happen again. And not just one death, but not one more accident. That is why, like you, we ask that the conditions under which the work is carried out be monitored, analysing the conditions of recruitment, timetables, working hours, safety measures, machinery and means of work used. Following this analysis, if necessary, all relevant measures should be put in place immediately, measures to enable high-speed train workers to do their work safely and to comply with all labour regulations, and in all their aspects. That was the content of the amendment which we have tabled and which has finally been incorporated, as I say, into that amendment which we have signed with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. The initiative proposes this, proposes an inspection, proposes, and that also leads to the amendment an analysis and diagnosis, because that is the inspection, an analysis and diagnosis of the conditions that may affect safety and the work provided by high-speed train workers. I'm not afraid of that diagnosis at all. No fear. The question is who should carry out that study that you request, that study on the conditions of recruitment, the timetables, the security measures, the machinery. All these issues, in our view, are the subject of the work to be carried out by the inspection. You don't have to invent anything. That is the work of the inspection. And we agree that this work should be intensified should it be necessary, prioritized or further prioritized, because it is already being done, that work on high-speed works, but it is not necessary for the Basque Government to usurp a function that is the very function of the Labour Inspectorate, because the issue of the discrepancy is who. It is proposed in the initiative that this inspection be carried out by the Basque Government and we with that aspect that we do not agree with and that is what we wanted to reflect in our amendment. We believe that the inspection must be carried out by those who are legally empowered to do so, who are not other than the Labour Inspectorate and Osalan for the prevention of occupational risks. And you have, of course, deleted from the amendment one of the aspects which I believe was rooted in the substance and, in fact, Mrs Ubera has said so in her defence today of the initiative, which is the paralysis of the works of the TAV. You said, Mrs Ubera, that they are not socially and economically viable; I do not know socially, I do not know, will not be socially viable for your electorate. There is another part of the Basques that considers that the high-speed train is very viable, and that wants that work, and that wants the high-speed train to reach Euskadi. You have described it as "a meaningless work"; for other Basques, that work makes a lot of sense. And I believe that one of the objectives of this initiative, and you not only do it with this, there are also other initiatives in other areas under way, is precisely to stop the work of the high-speed train, because there have been other large infrastructures, in which there have also been accidents. I want to remember here, for example, the works of St. Mames Stadium. They did not ask for the stoppage of the works of San Mamés. Neither you nor the unions. No, no, There it was asked to be watched, but at no time did they ask for the paralysis of these works while being analyzed. No, no, You ask for the paralysis of the works of the TAV, just as you consider them pharaonic, as LAB describes them. Because LAB, for example, said that pharaonic works had been imposed, which only interested the economic and political elites, to continue to maintain and increase their benefits, while generating poverty in the working people, and infrastructure that destroys the environment and unbalances the territory. And for this reason, LAB demanded the stoppage of the works, which is what you demanded in your original initiative. But it is not now, already in 2014 they denounced, as I told you before, that the Labour Inspectorate was looking elsewhere with the high speed train and you have always, always, opposed the construction by bringing the great environmental impact. And not only has he been on his target, he has been on the target of those whom you still do not condemn, on ETA's target, because ETA's threat has been one of the great blows with which the work has had to be executed. The terrorist gang put their sights on the works of the high-speed train for a long time. Because we here don't, on the contrary, join in that conviction and that petition for investigation of all the workers who have died in the works of the TAV, do you condemn the murder of Uria? His company, Altuna and Uria, worked on one of the sections and was killed for it. And that crime caused many companies not to want to participate in the work, or to be afraid to participate in that work. And many had to strengthen the security measures, both of their companies and their workers, to avoid attacks, and that also meant an overrun. That cost you were talking about, Mrs. Ubera. For the ETA attacks and the ETA threats also entailed a cost overrun, and that is also what you need to talk about when you talk about the high-speed train. That too, Mrs. Ubera. And of course we have to discuss what has brought us here, which are the accidents at work that occur in the works, the working conditions, to prevent subcontracting that would lead to a loss of safety conditions. Subcontracting yes, but with guarantees. Working conditions which are legal conditions, are not precarious conditions. We must act among all, and we must take action among all, as you point out in the initiative, Mrs Ubera, so that we do not...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u92	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u93	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. So that the unjust death of any worker does not occur again, so that that never happens again. That is what we wanted with the amendment that we have put on the initiative, that this should be done, but that should be done by those who are competent to do so. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u94	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u95	Yes, thank you, President. Today we are going to talk about occupational disaster and measures to prevent occupational risks in the works of the TAV. The proposer of the initiative points out that two fatal occupational accidents have recently occurred in the works of the VAD and, as a result, calls for an in-depth diagnostic study of the safety conditions of VAD workers, for urgent measures to be taken and for the conclusions to be defined within the VAD to be presented, after completion, in committee, this diagnostic report by the Counsellor of Labour and Justice. And while this diagnostic study is being conducted, what they are asking is for the works of VAD to be suspended until then. Of course, I have to say that we do not agree with the initiative put forward for the reasons I will set out below. The prevention of occupational risks, of course, is a human right; it is not considered a fundamental right, but it is part of the guiding principles of social policy in our Spanish Constitution. My group, the Basque Socialists, believe that all necessary measures must be taken to avoid, to the extent possible, accidents at work, any accidents at work, whether fatal or minor, but appropriate measures must be taken to achieve that result. Firstly, it is necessary to investigate the causes of such accidents and to adopt the control measures to be carried out in order to prevent them from occurring again in the future. Looking at the causes of these two accidents, I must point out that the first, indeed, although you, Mrs Ubera, said that not before with your head, according to data from the Labour Inspectorate, was derived from a heart attack that caused the worker during his working day, and the second accident occurred when the worker, when he parked the concrete vehicle, forgot to place the hand brake and, although there was practically no ramp, the concrete moved and hit the injured worker. Of course, we feel both deaths, but neither of these two fatal accidents can be said to have occurred due to a lack of safety measures in the work of the VAD. They are very unfortunate, and of course we are sorry, but we cannot say that as a result of these lack of security measures we must paralyse the works of the TAV and carry out those studies that you request. However, you, despite knowing that this is the case, are asking for the immediate cessation of the works of the TAV until these reports are completed. I say to you that both fatal accidents would have occurred exactly the same with the completion of this diagnostic report or not, because the company cannot foresee a heart attack, and if it occurs within the working day, of course, it is considered as an accident at work; and the second was done because the injured worker was forgotten to take the hand brake and had these unfortunate consequences. All this shows is that you give the same thing to what are the causes of the deaths or whether there has been a lack of security measures or not. They exaggerate that situation, they want to show a situation that is not real, that is not how you have raised it. And the only thing you pursue is what you have always pursued: taking advantage of that situation, what you ask for is: "Let us paralyze the works of the TAV". Which is what they've been asking for for for so many years. And I don't know, I think, by that philosophy, why do they only ask for the paralysis of the works of the TAV? Fatal accidents occur in all companies. Are you going to ask to stop any work in any company for that philosophy? Because according to his approach it would be the only way to get no fatal accident ever again. However, I must point out to you, for your peace of mind, that from Osalan and from the Labour Inspectorate all serious and very serious fatal accidents occurring in the Basque Autonomous Community, and a large part of the minor accidents, in all circumstances and with all their consequences, are analysed and a check is carried out from the Labour Inspectorate on labour contracts and working hours. These analyses allow preventive measures to be taken in order to prevent them from happening again. They are also used to develop work risk prevention guides, which are carried out in collaboration between technicians from Osalan himself and major construction companies, both at the national and autonomous level, as can be safety network guides for formwork, safety guide for tunneling, safety guides for ditches, safety guides for bridge construction. A rail superstructure guide is currently being developed, which will be completed by the end of 2019, and once completed, one of the track repair works will be initiated. It is that we have been pioneers for many years at the national level in this work, especially in the construction sector, so important to serve as a guide in the prevention of occupational risks. And we're going to keep doing this job. These work risk prevention guides in large infrastructure works are published and are generally accessible through the Osalan website. The conclusions and actions to be taken to eliminate risks are reflected in these guides and are then used as a reference for carrying out risk assessments. It is these risk assessments and preventive planning that are the responsibility of the companies themselves, which must keep them in mind and implement them, and also keep them up to date. And within the construction works, there are also the appointed construction coordinators, because this is also required by law. The Labour Inspectorate is responsible for monitoring these risk assessments and preventive planning and, if it finds any irregularities within them, requires that the relevant measures be taken. On the other hand, the Labour Inspectorate plans action campaigns for large infrastructure works, linked to the monitoring commission for the prevention of occupational risks in large infrastructure works promoted by public administrations in the Basque Country. During 2018, 56 joint Labour Inspectorate visits were carried out with Osalan and the Basque Government's Directorate of Mines, apart from individualized visits that have been made from Osalan, the Labour Inspectorate and the Directorate of Mines. 21 in Bizkaia and 31 in Gipuzkoa, because there are no public works sections of the TAV in Álava right now. As a result of these proceedings, in cases of non-compliance, if found, it has been possible to make requests for remedial action and infringement records. And what have been the main violations detected in all these actions been monitored. There is follow-up within that committee which I have referred to, which meets regularly, and within it measures are taken and decisions are taken that continue to be taken into account in the following scheduled visits. And the only way to stop it is when there is a serious and imminent risk to workers' safety. And this serious and imminent risk, according to article 21 of the Law on the Prevention of Occupational Risks, can be carried out only by the employer, the legal representatives of the workers, the affected workers themselves and the Labour Inspectorate. And, of course, the inspection does not lift this paralysis until the measures that have been required within it are complied with, but, of course, the Basque Parliament has no power to agree on the paralysis of any kind of work. The proper procedures are others. It is to carry out that continuous work of inspections that are done with courage and are done continuously. I do not agree with what you have said, Mrs Ubera, that it does not go away, that no action is taken, that it is not done courageously, because it is done. They are carried out in a continuous, systematic and very responsible manner. And from it comes a series of actions that are required of companies and many things are also avoided with all those measures that may have been proposed. Because you can never measure what you have been able to avoid, because since it has no longer occurred, you cannot statistically collect what the results have been, but they are, because the actions are carried out and many. And they're good. That's why we didn't agree with what you're asking for. It is not necessary to carry out such a study or diagnostic report, because these risk assessments and preventive planning have to be carried out continuously by the companies as the work changes, because the construction works are very changing. What's the point of a diagnostic study right now, if the circumstances are different within a month? So, we're doing diagnostic studies all day, and we don't do construction works, because we do diagnostic studies all the time, because as circumstances change, I have to do another one again. Well, no, that's not it. That is what risk assessments and preventive planning are for, and that is what the company needs to have properly, we have to inspect and see that the necessary measures are actually being carried out and taken. That is why, of course, we are going to vote in favour of the compromise amendment because it follows the line that we believe needs to be taken, which is to continue to analyse and carry out those investigations into accidents at work that are always taking place.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u96	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u97	I'm done with the president. All fatal, serious and very serious accidents, and a large part of the minor ones, to continue planning these campaigns that go to the Labour Risk Prevention Monitoring Commission, and to continue prioritizing such inspections within the works of the VAD, looking not only at occupational safety and health measures, but also ensuring that there is no labour fraud and that the working hours that have to be completed are also fulfilled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u98	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Miss Othello, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u99	Yes, thank you, Mrs. President, and good afternoon to all. We have often discussed in this Chamber, together with the committee, health and security, the execution of work conditions, the quality of employment, and our party has always expressed this concern. It is certainly important that all necessary means be put in place to ensure that working conditions are adequate to ensure health and safety at work. And really, to get a step forward, it's necessary to work in every area. It's a role of all of us. So each and every one of the actors involved must carry out their respective tasks in a responsible manner: companies, trade unions, workers and, of course, the Administration, as I say, to the extent that it is. And in this sense, the impetus, the institutional involvement is essential, no doubt. And on that path has been and is the Basque Government, with a firm commitment to the development of actions that respond to the needs and problems of society. Firm commitment and constant work to ensure that the necessary levels of safety and health are given, using the tools available to them, such as the Labour Inspectorate, a fundamental tool for prevention, control and counselling. It is essential that the necessary means of inspection should be the necessary means of performing its function in order to restore the proper application of its function underlying conditions. As a result of this commitment, the Basque Government with the promotion of health and safety is the reinforcement that is being made to the Labour Inspectorate, which we have talked about repeatedly in this House. An effort and reinforcement, of course, which will allow the Labour Inspectorate to carry out more and more precise actions aimed at monitoring compliance with the regulations in this area. It is clear that in the face of an accident at work – especially if it is a result of death – the efforts that are made will always seem to us insufficient and scarce. That is why we must continue to make progress in providing the inspection with the necessary resources to carry out its work in the best possible way, to ensure effective compliance with labour regulations and to avoid unworthy and insecure conditions for the workers of all works – such as those of the TAV – for all workers, be from here and wherever they are, of course. Further work is needed to optimize the use of the inspection service, a service that performs its inspection functions on the basis of its annual planning, which also specifically includes the detailed programming of monitoring and inspection visits to the works of the VAD in their different stages. The inspection also carries out its activity according to the actions determined by the monitoring commission of major public works, to which reference has already been made here, which specifies a planning of control and inspection actions to be carried out in public works, such as the VAD, jointly by the inspectors, technicians of Osalan and, where appropriate, also participates technical personnel of the Directorate of Mines of the Basque Government. And in all visits to the building site, the inspections are exhaustive. The inspection fulfils its function, because it is up to the inspection and it is up to it to collect and analyse all the information related to the prevention of occupational risks and the working conditions of the works. And if, as a result of the inspections that are carried out, non-compliances are detected, each of them is subject to the corresponding requirement to remedy the shortcomings or deficiencies found, and on subsequent visits it is carried out to verify their compliance. And it will have to be rigorous, of course, and totally in agreement, and we share that, it must be very rigorous in the demand for the fulfilment of any deficiencies detected. And in fact, if any inspection detects the existence of a serious or imminent risk, the inspector will determine whether it is considered to be so by the paralysis of the concrete section of the work, but of course the whole work will not be paralysed. We must act rigorously and forcefully, without any doubt, absolutely ensuring the safety of all people, but also with a sense of proportionality. It is certainly a matter of concern that accidents at work occur, as is the case with traffic accidents. And in these cases the measures that arise when an accident occurs, is not to close a motorway, what is done is to analyze, see what has happened and, depending on what has happened, the measures that are considered at that time most appropriate will be carried out: to focus on improving signalling, to focus on safety, to improve infrastructures to the extent that they are improveable, etc. And something similar happens with the works. We must be, as we say, totally rigorous and demanding. Steps should be taken to ensure that situations, of course not desired by anyone, are reoccurred. This is an issue on which the Basque Government is continuously working to ensure compliance with working conditions and measures in the field of occupational risk prevention also in the works of the TAV. And not only through the Labour Inspectorate – as I am explaining – but also through Osalan, another of the key tools available to the Government to further advance this goal. And, it has also been said here, from Osalan each of the work accidents that occur are investigated in order to know what happened and why, and to prevent them from happening again. Without obviating – and it has also been mentioned – that unfortunately not all deaths, not all accidents occur as a result of the lack of safety measures. Sometimes this happens, unfortunately, for other reasons, such as safety reasons or carelessness. In any case, all deaths are regrettable. And as I say, Osalan investigates every accident that occurs in order to be able to identify the causes that have caused it and, from there, to propose to determine preventive measures that, to the extent possible, minimize the risk that they will occur again and, moreover, that they will also serve to improve the management of the companies that have been involved in this matter. I will conclude by insisting that, of course, we believe, from our point of view, that it is not necessary to make a specific analysis and diagnosis, because it is an issue that is under continuous analysis, is under constant review. And this is the line on which we must continue. And in these terms we have put forward the amendment that we have negotiated with the Socialist Group, the Nationalist Group and the People's Group. This is the way we believe that we should continue, optimizing the use of these tools, increasing the actions of the Labour Inspectorate, controlling the effective compliance with labour regulations, both in terms of working conditions and in terms of the prevention of occupational risks, and investigating and analysing all accidents that occur in order to be able to draw conclusions that allow further progress in improving this reality. I finish, and I want to do so by expressing our solidarity with all the people who have had the bad fortune of suffering a work accident and, of course, with all those who have died and their families. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u100	Thank you, Miss Otalora. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u101	Mrs Otalora, it's not a matter of fortune, it's not a matter of fortune. Do you know what they agreed to? First point, "follow up"; second point, "continue"; third point, "continue". If you keep doing the same thing, what do you think, what's going to change? What do you think can change? Alice in Wonderland. And if being pioneers, Mrs. Sánchez, all this happens, I don't want to think. I don't want to think! You know what we're talking about? Apparently not, they don't realize, they're not conscious. Every five minutes, there's a business accident in the Basque Country, every five minutes. And he goes up exponentially: It was %1 in 2014, 2015, 3,5%; 2016, for the first ten months, 9,6, and today the data Osalan gave, according to Osalan, was 2,7% more than last year. While they were working, there have been more of the 42,9 deadly accidents this year from January to October. Please! What are we doing? Or the government, what are you doing? Pioneers! And then the ball went to the fuse. Cimatology, I'm sorry. Did he give a heart attack to what climate conditions he was working? How many hours? In the Adu, in the midst of Andoin and Zirrilla, the one who died, how many hours? What shift was he doing? On what condition? So what are we talking about? Look at Esska Y I don't know the book you know, it's very good in the Hole, it's a trip through AHT and the work plot. And there are some passages here, and I'd like to read two passages today. "The workingmen of these markets accused him by the press that they had stripped off the necessary sub-contradictions, and brought a cheaper one, and they also took it off and began at a cheaper rate. "They were almost slaves, they said, who had come from the school, paying only four o'clock, and putting them to sleep under the blanket. "In the works of the ethical art there seem to be also mafiosi practices. Our friend Mihail Cojocaru himself was witness to it. I've seen people from Corella forced to pay another person at the end of the month because he got AHTan a job." Another one: "Jumma Dien's words aren't cheap enough to sell, he knows what he's talking about. Like a lot of others, he went to France to get a job in the Basque Country when construction conditions collapsed, but he paid 40% less than those in the country. Second-class officers 500 euros even less. We were from the Portuguese here. "In many of the works of France the natives of the country are allowed to go to their cottage in bad weather, and if they don't go home. Then they re-take it back by means of an hour. Not us, not us. When the rain started, we were still wet at work. "Here it is just the same to those who come from without."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u103	Why make a diagnosis, and eye, a diagnosis to take action based on that diagnosis on the reality of work in the works of the high-speed train? Well, I am convinced of the need for this kind of diagnosis precisely because of some of the issues I have heard here today. Because a heart attack in a play has been described almost the same as the employer usually describes it, as was described by Confebask's lawyer when he appeared in this Parliament, as having nothing to do with working conditions. It is precisely because many accidents at work do not have to do directly, as has been said, with some faults or with the lack of prevention of occupational risks, because they have to do with the working conditions themselves. And that's why we have to analyze the working conditions, because it's not enough to know that what the regulations say is that in a company, in a work center or in a work has to be; that it has to be in a warehouse, well marked the lines on which the cart can go and on which the pedestrian workers must go, that the extinguishers have to be in their place... This isn't enough. In a company, in a work center can be in order all this and arise situations of risk for working conditions, and this has a lot to do with working days, with the rhythms of work, with the pressures to the workers to finish the work... That is why it seems to me that I am more convinced that a diagnosis has to be made and that this was a good proposal. This Sunday I had food with the gang after Behobia, and a teammate, who works in construction, works in France, for some of the reasons that Mrs. Ubera explained earlier, and before worked, logically, many years on this side of the Bidasoa, said that when he has to be with the crane, he often knows that he does things that he cannot do, and that he knows that they are a risk to working conditions, but he is not responsible, because he knows who has behind him if he doesn't do those things, and he knows where he can end if he doesn't do those things. And he knows that if he then has to go and get work from another company, that companies in the same sector talk to each other, they know each other, they know the risks that there are to denounce these things. That is why it is important not only to say that prevention of occupational risks must be met. All right, that's very important, that's very good, but here we were talking – or was the proposal – about making a diagnosis of the real conditions in works that have been found over time, long time, a decade, that there have been serious violations of the rights of workers, of all kinds. What has been said about collecting, I have spoken before about collecting wages below what is appropriate, and all these issues have to do with safety and health at work, which, of course, to me are the same thing as working conditions. And we are not going to accept that myocardial infarctions have nothing to do with safety and health at work, or even that of a Worker forgets to put the handbrake. I do not know that particular case, the study Osalan has done of the handbrake, but how many times we have seen that the handbrake forgets to put a worker who has been working for 13 hours. And that has to do with working conditions and that's what these kinds of diagnoses are for. And we've lived this a lot of people, we've lived it a lot of people. I've said it once before, I've committed with the wheelbarrow fears that should not be committed. But when you get in to work at 9:00 in the morning – and it's my experience – you stop at 3:00 to eat, you start again at 4:00, and this is until 4:00 in the morning, because Fridays are loaded with export trucks, and this has nothing to do with the TAV, it's very easy for you to forget to put the handbrake on the trolley next to a slope. Very easy. Therefore, these kinds of measures, which I also believe do not have a significant economic cost to the Government, are measures that could perfectly have been agreed upon. And the subcontracts, and with this I finish, Mrs. Llanos, you say, "Subcontracts yes, but under decent conditions." I'm going to replicate it. The decent conditions in subcontracting chains are impossible, because they are designed precisely to have precarious conditions and to save costs to companies and groups of companies. We are convinced of that and this is also denounced by all trade unions. Impossible. Therefore, because I am convinced that, more convinced than I came, that the transaction to which we had arrived Elkarrekin Podemos with EH Bildu was a good initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u104	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Hernandez, other times I used to tell you that you're a catastrophe, today you haven't been. You didn't say don't watch, you said you have to watch more. And I can agree with you perfectly. You have said that a diagnosis must be made, understood in terms of monitoring not only compliance with occupational risk prevention rules, but also. I put it in the amendment that I have tabled. The fulfilment of working conditions, working hours and even economic conditions is also part of what has to be monitored, in this particular work, because it is the subject of the initiative, and in all the others. And I can agree with you that both a heart attack and not putting a handbrake, we will have to monitor the circumstances in which the two cases have occurred. I mean, I tell you that it may seem at first sight that they have nothing to do with the enforcement of preventive measures, but it will have to be seen if they can be related to the working conditions in which that work was being carried out. And I agree with you, but what we can disagree with is how to carry out that inspection. You say that a diagnosis must be made by the Basque Government, a specific diagnosis of that work, and then I imagine that more will come. What I'm telling you is that the object of that diagnosis or surveillance that you point out has to be carried out, I agree with him, but I think that's what Osalan has to do, what the Labour Inspectorate has to do, and what the authorities that are competent and that have to do that have to do. And if they don't, then we'll have to report that it's not happening. And it will be necessary to put all appropriate means in place for them to be carried out. I do not believe that in the Labour Inspectorate there are certain issues on which I look elsewhere, or on which Osalan looks elsewhere, but if so, and you know it better than I because you are a trade unionist, there is the Labour Judicial Authority. And you know how I know that just as there is an axiom of in dubio pro reo in dubio pro laborem It seems to me appropriate, as you say, that we should not resort to bringing these kinds of issues before the courts and that it is appropriate for the Labour Inspectorate to do works such as these specific inspections, which are being carried out, or are not continuing. There is always an area of improvement. And, of course, if there is a death or an accident at work, of course there is scope for improvement. If there is a breach of working conditions at work, in wages, in working conditions, there is scope for improvement. Obviously. But what I'm saying is, because it's a specific work that you know perfectly well that it is the object of criticism and requests for land, sea and air of its paralysis, in this particular case of the TAV, let's not do, no, no... It is a work of great magnitude, as such we must treat it, and we must make inspections, that all the conditions are fulfilled, as in all the others. And I refuse, it will occur, but I refuse to accept that as a general rule, that in subcontracting not. It will have to be monitored because there have already been initiatives here, that in the subcontracting chains there is no reduction in the working conditions of the workers and that the contract, the labor agreement of the country of origin, is not applied, precisely because on many occasions this resulted in workers having worse working conditions than Spanish workers working in the same workplace and in the same workplace. I mean, I agree with you on that. Mrs. Ubera, because she's screaming more, she's no longer right. I don't know if there's been any saying that you don't have to work when you have to make tunnels, because I remind you – I think the defender of the metro and the meters – that almost all the route of the meters runs through tunnels. What do we do? Mines, miners work in tunnels. Shall we close all the mines? Because when a mine is closed, there is a lot of movement and response from the workers. That working conditions have to be met? Totally in agreement with you, but it is that you here, really, have come to say that we live in the jungle in terms of working conditions and monitoring and labour inspection. Revelation Now Let me see, I believe, I have already told you, that there is an area of improvement, of course, because whenever there is an accident or an occupational failure, and I do not tell you a death anymore, that, as you say, it is not a matter of fortune, but of avoiding them, we must act; but from there it seems that here it is with arms crossed and nothing is done, I think there is a great abyss. And you here today treated it as if it were, nothing, a narrow, easy-to-do walkway. That is why I believe that the initiative we have already dealt with recognizes that we must continue to work. I think we have to report, but recognizing that there are things that are done and that are well done. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u106	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u107	Let's see. Obviously, from my group we do not want to see more deaths, more accidents, even if they are described as very serious, or serious or mild. Obviously. But you consider that the only panacea to prevent that from happening is that that diagnostic study is being made and it seems that with that diagnostic study everything will be solved. But we do not think it is necessary, because, obviously, as I have already said, if an investigation is carried out into every fatal accident, which is very serious and serious, which is absolutely all looked at by Osalan and the Labour Inspectorate, it is that every report made of that accident is a diagnostic study of what has happened in that accident. And you look at the same thing as a heart attack as any kind of circumstance that has occurred. Because heart attacks are also being investigated just in case. Because even if they occur during the working day and in principle are already considered to be an accident at work, in case it is derived from any cause that may have caused this heart attack, they are also investigated, but many times you obviously cannot conclude that this heart attack could have been derived from circumstances at work. In case it is also investigated, but if we are facing a heart attack or if a mistake has unfortunately been made by a worker, what you cannot say is that there are obvious lack of security measures, the situation is catastrophic, because in those cases the reality is the one that has occurred.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u108	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u109	So, of course, that's why it often takes a long time each accident report, because very serious investigations are carried out into every accident that occurs, and you have to go, perhaps, several times to the workplace and replay how the accident happened to go looking for all the possible causes and why it happened exactly, etc. That is to say, it is a fairly complete and quite extensive work that is carried out by the Labour Inspectorate and by Osalan in every very serious and serious fatal accident that occurs in this autonomous community, and also in the mild ones. But in all of them this diagnostic report is made one by one, in each of them. And what causes could have been and what measures had to be taken, and what sanctioning actions had to be taken if deemed necessary. And benefits are claimed for lack of security measures if it is necessary to benefit the beneficiaries of the worker concerned or the deceased worker. Then we cannot admit that you say that absolutely nothing is done, because it is done. And it's a long time ago. But we believe that this diagnostic study is not necessary, it is not going to bring anything new, because each of these fatal accidents is already being investigated. And then there are a series of visits, scheduled, that are coordinated to make them together. And the results are taken to that monitoring committee. And in that follow-up committee, decisions are assessed, decisions are taken and efforts are made to improve and change and to take such measures as they deem appropriate. And that's where the union administration is represented, and so on. Then don't tell me you don't do things, because you do things. And a very particular follow-up is made to this work, by the scale of this public work. And it has been maintained for many years – obviously, for 10 years – as this commission continues to be maintained while the works of the TAV are in place. And that's good, that's important, and I don't admit that they're saying that absolutely nothing is being done, because it's not. We believe that other measures need to be taken. And of course it says, "Continue performing", because I have already said that the investigation of all these accidents is being carried out, and of course it also says that "continue planning", because it is planned. We are not going to have it planned from now on, because these joint visits have been planned for a long time. It is also important to "continue prioritizing" the study, not only of safety measures, but also of working conditions, working hours, etc., because it is also important, apart from measuring, to check what measures exist for occupational safety and health, whether or not such risk assessments are carried out, whether such preventive planning is correct, etc. It is also important to see that there is no job insecurity, to correct the irregular situations that are seen. We have already mentioned that this year 7,000 contracts have been converted into indefinite contracts by the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate checks the employment contracts. They're good results, they're very good results. Obviously, we enter, and in an investigation of an accident at work we look absolutely everything and when there have been no accidents, too, because in those periodic visits we look absolutely everything. Hours are checked, contracts are checked, occupational health and safety measures are checked. So, we do not consider that diagnostic study necessary. We believe that many things are being done and we believe that they must continue to be done. What more can be done? Well, too. As Mrs Llanos said, we can do more. And on that I can agree, but it's done and a lot. And we must also value what is being done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u110	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Miss Othello, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u111	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Ubera, we know perfectly well what we are talking about, and under no circumstances have we minimized the concern and importance for our group to ensure and ensure full and absolute compliance with the right working conditions and the prevention of occupational risks. We are fully aware of reality. What happens is that you are making an approach, and that has already been commented on, that it seems that the Administration does nothing, that looks elsewhere, even I think it has come to say that the inspection staff and Osalan do not act with enough professionalism... I don't know, let's be serious. It seems to me really serious statements, when you're really making lots of things, you're making a lot of progress. There's a lot of room for improvement, there's a lot to do, but what you can't do is put on the table or question the professional value of a group of people who are constantly trying and working to ensure that these things don't happen, don't keep happening. It has also been said here, but it is true that it gives us the feeling that they again take any opportunity to show their rejection of works with which they do not agree from the very beginning. I believe that since the third parliamentary term, a multitude of initiatives have been put on the table in this House in relation to the plenary, and, whether you or any other group, you always take the opportunity and opportunity to call for the paralysis of a work with which you do not agree. It is true, and we recognize it, that there are too many accidents. It's a lot more than just an accident, isn't it? It's a situation we don't want. And I have said this before, and I repeat again, to ensure compliance with labour risk prevention rules, to ensure adequate working conditions and, above all, above and above labour risk prevention, is a shared responsibility. The Administration has responsibility; employers have a lot of responsibility, they have an obligation to put in place all the necessary means to ensure and ensure that the necessary security measures are available, that there are adequate working conditions; workers also have their share of involvement and responsibility; trade unions, as workers' representatives, also have an important role to play. Here we have the figure of the prevention delegates, who also have a key role in monitoring compliance with labour law in all their areas. And if you are so clear, as you have told us here today, that there have been breaches, I understand that you will also know about which companies those breaches are. Then don't throw the stone and hide your hand. If you really have that clear knowledge so report it, put it on the table. A point on the subject of subcontracting, Mr Hernández. Initially in his amendment, he was talking about abolishing subcontracting. Then in the transaction they have agreed with Euskal Herria Bildu, they seem to lower the tone a little bit and talk about reducing. Obviously, subcontracting is a figure that is contemplated and that it is often necessary to resort to this figure, above all, in works of the scope of the VAD, with the complexity that it has, in which it is necessary to have persons specialists in very different fields and guilds, with which it is inevitable and logical, moreover, to resort to recruitment. In any case, I do not know if you know any company that can have in its structure the multiple variety, as I say, of guilds that are necessary to be able to carry out a work of this size with adequate conditions. Subcontracting itself is not bad. I think sometimes they demonize her, too, don't they? It is clear that the necessary means must be put in place and every effort must be made to monitor, so that all the companies involved in this work, and in any other work, actually comply with the appropriate conditions in the field of occupational risk prevention, offer and give their workers the best working conditions, without any doubt, but we must ensure that and insist and strengthen the mechanisms for this. And in that sense we agree with you. We do not agree – we have already commented – with the way in which they are putting it, because we understand that it is something that is already being done. It's done through inspection, it's done through Osalan. What is at stake is to strengthen these mechanisms that we already have so that there really is enough momentum to prevent these precarious conditions, which under many conditions exist, and to ensure, above all, and to ensure that people have the best working conditions in order to be able to carry out their work in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u112	Thank you, Miss Otalora. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u113	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Basque Sociists, and Eucabertarians, the middle-line correction that has been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 45; counters, 28; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u114	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. The seventh point on the theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: "Go and collect another proposal of the law of Parliament, concerning the strengthening of public rental policies. "Mutation, introduced together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos, IX of the 18th of June of Housing. About the chapter application. "Modition, Maider Ottagoria Tolosa EHGGDS" introduced, "about the development of the Housing Act." Team proposeer's turn. Madam Ottagon, representative of the EHG team, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u115	Yes, thank you, Your Honor. Good afternoon, everyone. On September 28th, 2018, I registered two initiatives. On the one hand, an interpenetration on the growth of the law of Housing, and, on the other, a proposition as well as that of regulating public rental policies. We think these two different undertakings, which have different ends, and have a different subject of discussion. The only thing that's given is that these two things in common are concerned with the housing. The interrogation was very slowly related to the development of the law, and as the explanation of Mr. Arrian's having been given to us in the control market, we presented the motive which we are able to discuss. As it appears at five o'clock that you've received it, we're making very specific demands about the development of the law. The other is related to public rental policies, and is clearly explained in the other four different points of the proposed proposal, and is made to laugh at four demand to strengthen public rentals, which are not even mentioned in the Housing Law, and which have nothing to do with the development of the House Law. We do not, therefore, at all agree that these two enterprises should be discussed together. We think that each of these two subjects has sufficient content and depth to have a proper discussion, and sufficient time to give it; but, well, it is determined and we shall do so. Today, knowing that I would like to say a lot of things, but being conscious that I shall not have time to behave as I always do, I shall, above all, focus on the development of the law. We'll still have a chance to discuss more deeply about the rental police, but we'll really discuss it. We'll see how we're looking at it, but we'd like to have a deeper discussion about the rental police, and we're looking into introducing some initiative or something about it, because there's reason to investigate and overthrow the situation we're living in. I wish I could have turned it all upside down, but being a realist it won't be easy, at least not at once; this will take its time. The demand for rental housing, especially for public protection housing housing, but in the free market, the demand for rental housing is increased, and the offer is small, too small, but even private offer. And this is the constant increase of rent during the last few years. According to the last report of the building, the rent was 938 euros a month in June, our autonomy, and the free market, 983 euros. The price has cost nearly 8% a year, and for five years it's 19%, and it's especially disturbing at the Gimpian situation because the rent average is 1,30 euros. It's the law of offer and demand that's all there is here. It is plain, then, what way it is: increase a rental offer. There's no other mystery there. But, as I have said, I will no longer go deeper in this, and we shall have the opportunity to make a wider reading, and I shall focus on the development of the Housing Law. As I said, the motion we introduced was a matter of five points. On the one hand, we requested the exact organization of the Housing Act; on the other hand, a decree which regulates the subjective right was immediately to be introduced and accepted; and as a third point, we requested that the housing resources of the housing should be applied to promote the housing of the rent, in order to guarantee that not a single dwelling in the public protection of the 2020th year would be sold; as a fourth point we required to raise the power of taking our hands at homes without people, and in the dwellings which do not fulfil the social function; and at the fifth point of the fifth point, we requested that the production of the autonomous institution of all the public organizations and public organizations in the housing in the apartment. As Podemos himself will be able to explain, IX of Housing Law. He made an interpenetration on the application of the chapter to the chief physician, who introduced the sentence of the Constitutional Court and afterwards, and the consequence of this interpelation is also a motive for discussion, together with the motion which we have represented, and with the proposal of the other law which we have expressed. Seeing that there were too many elements in this discussion, and that we ought to put too many points into a half-way possible, we decided, above all, to concentrate on the development of the Housing Law, Mr Martínnez and I, and to sum up all that belongs to the rent-polies in a single point. And that's what we did and that's what we agreed on a six-point medium. I must further confess that we improved our initial proposal with this half-pathic suggestion, because it seems to me peculiarly important to me that the first point which they introduced together from the Podemos will be of great use to the councils, especially to the municipal councils who have but few means, seeing how difficult they are to be met with. And what I'm glad of is that when we collect the Basque People and agree together to the Podemos, we're going to make a deal with the rest of the teams, the one who was a little down from our initial demands is going to say, uh, "Errandonia, it's almost in her mouth to accept it"? We gave them this half-way suggestion, with a certain flexibility of our petitions. And in this half-way proposal we've made there are six points. In the first place, we're asking you to make a report, the first point I've just mentioned, a point that Podemos has received in his mind, to make a report about the Housing Law, to find out what business or what business the councils can do directly within their jurisdictions, and what matters must be before they need a development which will be necessary to enable the activity of the councils. We wanted to give you a month's time for that half-way proposal to run this report, but it's only after the first three months of 2019 that the engagement has been made. So, I think it's a pretty acceptable deadline. In a second place, we ask you to present a detailed plan for the development of the Housing Law in order to be in progress and an oriental direction over the steps of his calendar, in accordance with what was agreed on in October 27th of October 2017. We would ask for this proposal to be introduced in a month's time. In fact, it seems to us that it should be enough a month, for I must remember that it is a point of another proposition than a year ago, like this or this table, or this hemical cycle, which we all agreed to. And there they were urgently asking for this examination or streetkeeping. On the one hand, I see the precautions that are hard to ask us not to be constantly in our work, or to be constantly in our hands, to be able to supply the departments, and to be in our hands all the same. We have received a third point requiring a decree to regulate the subjective right which is the fundamental element of the Housing Law, considering the amendments expressed by the operators. We come back here to a sort of thing I've said before. It was a year in September that the projectation was accepted, that his transfer was accepted. It seems to us that too long has elapsed before this decree, which regulates the subjective right. It's essential to guarantee the Housing Act. And we think that we accepted this decree as soon as possible. We've already spent nine months here, because the department argues that it's not easy. I understand it's not easy. It is not easy, especially because they require material and especially personal resources. And it's because you want to do well. I understand all that. But I think you're taking too much time to do it right. But let's do it with all our guarantees and see if in nine months' time we've accepted this decree. We have received a fourth point that the vacant housing may be disturbed, and that it may be raised by rules to guarantee the social function of the housing. for they require all the sects belonging to the chapter, which it is necessary for the councils to have the tools which they have of their own knowledge, or those instruments which they might have put into force. This needs a little more time. It is true that we had asked for it before, although the Constitutions had all that concerns empty housing. We had already asked him to advance and advance on all the developments we had to make. But, yes, it is true, and I understand here, that legal reports, with all legal and legal guarantees, need a lot of goods, and that in the meeting we had the vice-presidents of the department who explained to me that the proceedings were to be fulfilled, and I admit that it is true, perhaps not enough for six months. We have been more flexible under the sun, and we shall see if it is filled in nine months, and that in half a year we may have all these instruments in our power. We entered a fifth point. In fact, it's all very well to ask you to continue with the operating and functional integration of the housing department, and the public society that depends on it, that of the Vises and the A rental. I still think that what ought to be produced is an autonomous organization, because, as we do, it seems to me that it is the most just, and that it would be the easiest, especially if we consider that it is the management of a preparation which many people will use. And I don't know if I don't find a bit of difficulty there if it isn't. Well, you say no, operating and functional, you know, you're in there making progress and, well, I don't know. I'm still thinking that an autonomous organization should be created, but, well, on the way to a deal, we've accepted what you're about to discuss. And finally, and very short...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u116	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u117	We've just inserted a point on the increasing policy of rent, which seems absolutely necessary to us. And here I would like to remark, very briefly, a point which pleases me most of all that we have obtained, since the Government has admitted that not a single house of public protection will now be planned for sale. I was going beyond it. I think it wouldn't be possible to sell a single flat on the Housing Act since 2020, but, well, it's just a step up until now. You said the other day in interpelation that you didn't have a single apartment, exactly how you used to tell me...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u118	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u119	Well, you're not gonna start promoting any of them. I think if you'll allow me to do that plan this evening, I'll be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u120	Thank you, My Lady Mount. Martínezion, fellow member of the Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u121	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. The middle term has been fully explained and the essence of the initiation, and it is difficult, in fact, to make a strict discussion with the original initiations, but we finally got a middle course and I think we're pretty focused on the discussion. There are other things outside, some because of differences between parties, and some will be able to discuss. As I always say, and as I said in the last interpelation to Mr. Arrian, when we talk about rentals we don't talk about anything, we're talking about certain and concrete people, about our fellow citizens. And our life, about a rather fat subject that determines our lives. And I think it's important to give you some details of the problem to appreciate the subject. On the one hand, the rent price. How much did it go up? She said how much the rent rate went up in the last few years. 20% of our country in five years, especially in Gipugen, 23. It's more than a thousand euros right now. The reasons for this are many and varied, but one of them has also been given by Mrs Otamendi, it is the law of the jungle of the supply and demand of this world that is so advanced for some things and that it does not even allow citizenship, that every person, every family, every citizen has a decent housing, but it is also the result of the mentality that we have in the country as well, but it is also because the sheltered housing still represents a very scarce park, and it is also because, for example, the park of protected housing is scarce, but also the rental intermediation programs still do not achieve year after year, reaching the goals that are set. This year the Government has set itself objectives to reach 6,400 homes, nor do we know very well how it will do so in this transaction. We have some ideas, some proposals for this, and I hope it will be fulfilled and we will be there to point that out too, but we are still far away. And we are far away because it is a reality that contrasts with 84,000 people in Euskadi who need a first home, with 62,000 people who are targeted in Etxebide, 80% of them asking for a home for rent. It is therefore urgent, first, to expand the park; secondly, to mobilize empty housing and, thirdly, to guarantee the subjective right to housing. I think we agree, that neither do I, that also, for example, was said by the Ararteko in his appearance in 2017. That's why, and even in the middle of the line, the law is said to develop, and the growth of the law must be a pretty important reflection on the budgets, and we'll help in the budgets that we said in the Istanbulns, we'll make our own corrections for the HUDs to have more budgets and more personals. The law has a right to a decent housing, our laws. And what he says is, that it is the business of public administration, and puts two ways in order to maintain it: I'm renting a house or prescribing it. Unfortunately, on account of the co-operation, political decisions, but unfortunately the latter, the preparation, is on the brink of a generalization. The second problem in developing the law is uninhabited housing. We have approved it in this Parliament twice, in November of 17 and in July of this year. We told the Government to do its duty and we had to come to this motion to bring an agreement that finally sets a specific deadline. It's nine months, it starts tomorrow when the agreement comes into effect. Nine months, no more or less. We need to develop this tool that is important for the development of the Housing Act. We have more than 20,000 potentially mobile homes for rent from the Basque Government, to meet that need for public housing. Again I say and ask, and again I offer our hand to the Government to lead this process, we know that the municipalities are as they are and it is the Government that has to lead this process of mobilizing uninhabited housing, helping with the registration of empty houses, with the regulation of the canon and with the regulation of forced rent, but it has to lead the Government, it cannot depend either on the will of one or another municipality, it has to lead the Government. And this is, after all, some things on the deal. The fourth point has also been shown. We only ask that the law be fulfilled in a sense, and that the Parliament fulfils it. That's all we're asking for. And this will be the last time we ask of my team, for there is a law, for there are two agreements as well as the warden of the planet. And, well, it's said, no public housing that isn't going to be hired any more. I think that if you put a blonde blonde in it, we've put that up a little earlier, and that's the way it's going to get that deal. Bestald, guk legez besteko bat aurkeztu genuine allokairuen price of buruzko indize bat ezartzeari buruz, eta, azkenean, nahiz eta ados ez egon akumulazio hori ez ematearekin, well, behintzat sartu dugu erdibidekoan. Eta izango dugu, éta sailak egin behar du orine berre lana horren inguruan, éta gure proposamenak nahi baditu bidaliko dizkiegu, to establish that index of rental prices, which at no time will we say here from our parliamentary group that it will solve all housing problems, but that we think that, of course, the best – and in that we will continue to work here and where it is needed – would be to limit by law the price of rent. Yes, intervene the market and limit the rental market by law. But as long as we can do that, it's a measure that can help raise awareness, that can help work on the regulation of the rental price. Moreover, which is a tool that in this work that it has to present before the end of the year before the government tax coordination body, these fiscal measures for the promotion of rent, we believe that it is a measure that can serve, that rate of rental prices which it does is to make a reference to the average price on the basis of market prices, also on the basis of the Basque Government's bond registration prices, on the basis of the characteristics of the building and the housing, that such rates also serve for the establishment of fiscal measures to encourage rent, especially with public brokerage programmes. Therefore, after this debate, which I say again has been complicated, because two motions, the GNP, our GNP, which has remained on the road, I think we have been able, and I think that is good and that must be said, to reach this agreement. A very concrete agreement of six points and which has deadlines, deadlines on which we are going to be on top. That report that the Basque Government has to do in three months to order what the Government can do and what the municipalities can do. That report of the first quarter of the planning of the development of the Housing Law, which we had already agreed in the year 2017 in October, but well, now the first quarter of 2019, the last day of March, we will be waiting, or if it arrives before, but if we are not waiting the last day for it to be delivered. The nine months for the regulatory development of chapter IX of the law. Also for the subjective right to housing, there will be attention above all to two things: one to the term and two to the content. We have said that the case has also been made, that account should be taken of the contributions of the social groups that made their allegations, but that we must ensure that no one is left out of that regulatory development of the subjective right to housing. And as I said a second ago, strengthening public rental policies was an agreement of the Basque Parliament, it is again an agreement of the Basque Parliament, we are going to be on top of that, with that guarantee that not a single house for sale is made, that the mobilization of empty housing is made serious, that it is a priority axis, that we put tools, that we also put fiscal measures – we will be attentive to that report we are waiting for – and that the rate of rental prices, rather than a toast to the sun, we can use it to make fiscal policy, to mobilize housing and to guarantee ultimately a public rent, a decent rent, and a rent that can be paid with the salaries that are currently being paid. Therefore, and I conclude, the agreement was the possible agreement between all the forces of this Parliament. We're gonna be on top. It has to have a budgetary reflection, we are going to make our amendments as I said at the hearing, there are going to be amendments aimed at each point in this resolution and I hope that at least these will be able to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u122	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u123	Thank you, President. I'm gonna yell at you. Well, I hope that we do not open up debates because the agreement we have reached I believe is a good agreement and, above all, it will be a good agreement if it is complied with. I believe that, moreover, there has been an attempt by the proposing groups, in this case, to try to reduce what they originally proposed, precisely to facilitate this agreement. When the Housing Act was passed, one would have thought, because of the significance that some gave it, that with that approval the housing problems in Euskadi were going to end and that a debate was closed with a housing law that had been demanded for a long time. But here we are, a while after we passed the Housing Act, and we continue to discuss it. With regard to the two motions and the non-legislative motion, I agree with Mrs Otamendi, who put it precisely in a re-examination of the Bureau. In addition, they were in fact two very different subjects and should have been the subject of two different debates, because they are two different issues on which it revolves, and they are also seen in the very amendment to which we have come, but, well, we will discuss it together, because it is true that the two are related to housing, but that they are two different issues. The first of these, on which I am going to refer, was the policy on rental, housing for rent, and the policy to be developed by the Basque Government in this respect. It is true, and it has been said here, that the data on demand for housing for property and rent – and we have said this in all debates – have been reversed in recent years. Ten years ago, in 2008, according to data from the Housing Observatory, only 9.8 per cent of the applicants for first-time housing were renting, and almost 60 per cent of the population aged 18 to 44 who demanded first-time housing were interested in owning them, and up to 30 per cent were not renting either system. The same data in 2017 were 42.9% of first-rate applicants who opted for rent, and only one in three 18-44-year-olds who demanded the first home did so on the property – 36%, sorry – while the remaining 20% was indistinct. This was with the demand of the Basque population in general, and of those registered in Etxebide, as we were told the other day, with data from the second quarter of 2018, the percentage of applications for rent reaches 80% (53,541), compared to almost 19%, 18.9, in purchase (12,479). In 2008, this data was virtually the reverse, so we see how the reversal has been virtually total, and therefore from public institutions we must carry out measures that boost the number of rented houses, not only because this is what the Basque citizens demand, but also because the Housing Act itself provides that the satisfaction of subjective law must be done through a rented house and, if that is not possible because the Basque Government is not available, through an economic benefit aimed at the same end. Therefore, as one of the initiatives points out, the rental housing stock needs to be expanded and so has Ararteko himself. And that is what we also proposed in the amendment we were asking for, that those public protective houses which, even though they were intended for sale, were unoccupied, we put more than two years, were intended for the expansion of the public park of rented dwellings. And we had included that deadline because we had to talk, to specify and to talk about a specific deadline, because it has to be made clear that the first one to do the duties, the first to set an example, must be the Basque Government. At the moment there are empty dwellings owned by the Basque Government, which are willing to be rented, because those are willing to be rented and are not then done, well, as we say this does not marry much with the expression of preaching by example. That is why we called, and it is also included, for the implementation of the resolutions adopted in the Housing Master Plan and, at least, the 80% of budgetary resources should be directed towards rental policies, a percentage which should be extended in successive years. As it is also necessary to further enhance programs such as ASAP or Bizigune. At that point, it should be noted that forecasts are not usually met, as was seen when the previous Housing Plan was presented, in which the objectives proposed in that programme had not been achieved, we do not know whether because the objectives that had been set at the beginning were very ambitious and it was almost known from the outset that they were not going to be met or on other issues. In any event, we believe that further consideration should be given to the causes for the failure to meet those objectives and, where appropriate, to adopt appropriate corrections. And within these measures to promote the market for more housing, there were also prosecutors, who also appear in the initiative. We believe it is appropriate or desirable, although it is not so specified in the amendment, that the tax coordination body could study, with the outlaws, the application of new tax measures that would benefit both owners and tenants, and that, in addition to placing rented housing on the market, it could also continue to monitor precisely and fight against possible fraud, concealment of income derived from the rental of housing. And we opposed and did not consider it appropriate to set a rental limit, set a maximum price. If the agreement between Sánchez and Iglesias succeeds, the municipalities will be able to limit the price of the rent. The Socialists did not see it clear a few months ago. Of course it had to be when Sanchez was just Sanchez and he wasn't president of the government. And what I did not see before was clear, for now that he is president of the government, he must see it clear and meridian his alter ego In other European countries, these formulas have been applied and, in those countries, they have not yielded the desired results. Thus, for example, cities such as Paris or Berlin had them fixed and have reconsidered. What has been included to us, which is to establish a benchmark, may seem convenient to us, but instead, to set a mandatory limit, as I say, I think that in the end it is true that the increase in rents that has occurred, it is true, but that is because of supply and demand, as I said. At the moment Basques and Basques opt more for rent than for property and therefore, according to this law of supply and demand, because rents have risen. To establish a compulsory index, we think it is appropriate, but we believe that putting a stop to it does not think it will produce the effects that are desired with the fixing of that compulsory amount. We also believe that, as when we discuss the Housing Act, it is through proposed measures, incentives, that they will lead to the mobilization of unoccupied housing and its placing on the market. And at this point, I turn to the other major issue, which is that of motions in the law, which is the regulatory development of the Housing Act, which was necessary from the beginning because many of the articles of that Housing Act depended on its regulatory development, but, of course, it becomes absolutely necessary after the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 19 September. Because the law provided for the possibility to act against dwellings that did not fulfil that social function and to be able to act on such dwellings that were permanently unoccupied for more than two years and where there were no causes or reasons for their non-occupation under the terms provided for in the law or in the regulatory development of the law. The law provided for a number of assumptions in article 56 in order not to apply that or not to consider it unoccupied, but many of these causes are undefined and can also lead to a large caseload. For example, he talks about job transfer, health, dependency, emergency. But what specific causes are we talking about? Or keep an offer for sale or rent at market prices. What is market price? And, for example, if my home is worth more because I have it furnished or because I have it in better condition than others within the same area. He also spoke of article 56 on equivalent grounds. What equivalent reasons? What are the equivalent reasons? Disengagement establishes that it must be continued. Can that "continue" be interrupted, for example, by occupying it for 20 days? This too, how such unemployment can be halted, must also be developed on a regulatory basis. As also the terms of "administrative intervention", as in "canon", the "forced renter", the "forced expropriation" should be resolved... With regard to the canon, for example, will it be compatible with the IBI surcharges that are made from the municipalities? With regard to forced rental and forced expropriation, it is said that it can be applied in cases of accredited demand and need for housing. How will this need and demand for housing be realized? We spoke and spoke at the initiative of the municipalities. It is true that when the Housing Act was discussed, we said that not only were obligations imposed on the Basque Government, but they were also imposed on the municipalities. Therefore, the municipalities will have to know what they are going to be involved in and how they are going to be involved. Last but not least, and I conclude, Madam President, the truth is that it might seem that the market for empty housing on which to act is very large, it is infinite. But at this point we want to highlight that, according to the data contained in the 2017 Euskadi Housing Report, drawn up from the Euskadi Housing Use Survey, it divides it between "occupied", "seasonal" or "unoccupied". Within the latter, he speaks of the "unmanageable", for being already for sale or for rent, and the "manageable", within which those that are in ruins are not included. Well, the latter are not in a position to apply all those who have not been unemployed for more than two years. Thus, of the 69,231 uninhabited dwellings, which accounts for 6.6% of the total housing stock, the manageable would be half, 34,466, i.e., 3,3 %. But by applying that time limit more than two years required by law, it would be 20,840, that is to say, the percentage is reduced by 2% of the housing stock. Of these, 6,581, or 0.63 % of the housing stock, those in perfect living conditions, i.e. those that can already be occupied, on which such measures could already be applied. That's what we're talking about, and so I think that's also what we need to show...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u124	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u125	Yeah, I'm done. Finally, we want to make it clear that it is therefore necessary to proceed, in the shortest possible time, to the regulatory development of this Law 3/2015, which promotes the establishment, development and implementation of this housing policy in line with the real needs of citizens and their personal, social and economic circumstances, so that this subjective right is fully effective and not merely a manifestation of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u126	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u127	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, all the afternoons. I understand that three proposals are not easy to discuss. At length, I think, we have made a quick exercise among all of us, and have, as far as possible, introduced at least the spirit of all corrections in this medium. Gaur berriro era, age ez da kasualità, gai honori buruz eztabaidatzen dugunean ahobatezkotasunarekin aterako dugu erdibidekoa. And I believe that that is something significant, that it is not beginning to be a coincidence and that it shows, first of all, that there is a will for agreement, not only on the part of the groups supporting the Government, but also by the opposition groups that have recorded these initiatives; and that the intention, the will, of the Government is also in tune with all the parliamentary groups represented in this House. I would like to thank all the groups that have taken part in the drafting of this compromise amendment for the exercise of realism, foresight and responsibility that we have applied, because I believe that in some way each and every one of us could have pulled towards our side, some of us trying to squeeze the government into terms of time, even the groups that we support the government by doing an exercise of irresponsibility, political mirage and selling false expectations, but I believe that neither one nor the other would have led us to a good place. I am therefore grateful for the effort we have made to reach this agreement. I think we have all been generous and, somehow, I think the agreement we have reached is very much in line with reality. As the previous Members have said, this compromise amendment is based on two blocks. The main aim was to prioritise all the motions dealing with the development of the Housing Act and I believe that agreement has been reached on three points which I believe are fundamental. The first, in the normative development of the Housing Law, we understood that it is impossible to develop the set of decrees that this law entails or to which we are bound by this law during this legislature, but I think it is very important that we have prioritized and that we have set a time limit on the normative development of what is to be the fundamental body of the law, those issues that we believe are nuclear for this tool to be effective, that it feels the foundations, the foundations, so that this law can be implemented and that it can be effective as soon as possible. I think it is important to clarify, on the one hand, the level of competition, the competences that the municipalities may have, to clarify the role of each of us. Mr. Martínez called for leadership from the government. I believe that this leadership is being exercised over and over and not just that leadership is being exercised, but that even time is not being wasted and agreements are already being reached with many municipalities in concrete policies, especially in terms of empty housing, owned by those municipalities, to the fact that they can already start to promote rental policies in inter-agency collaboration. It is clear that this is not all we would like, but I believe that time is being used well, as long as we do not yet have a decree clarifying, as I said, what the competence is, the task of each of the institutions. Secondly, as regards the normative development that affects the subjective right of housing, I believe that it is a fundamental and not less complex element, and I believe that in this regard the participatory process is very enriching. It is no less true that it has also been able to slow down in some way, because that participatory process, as long as contributions are made that are to be incorporated into that decree, also requires not only an analysis, but also mandatory reports in order to be able to incorporate those elements into that decree with legal certainty and, therefore, we understand that those nine months that we have given ourselves in order to be able to pass it are a reasonable time to have it, to be able to analyse it and to have, as I said, a decree with sufficient legal guarantees. And the third point, everything concerning the normative decree that will establish or that will go around clarification, the conceptualization of what comes to be uninhabited housing. I believe that it is an important commitment of the Government that in nine months we can have such a decree, a decree that will regulate a fundamental element of the law, and not to base it solely and exclusively because it is in itself, but because it is an element that also conditions many other elements, other decrees also of the same law. I believe that there are few issues that are contained in the law that do not have in the establishment of what is the concept of empty housing the implication that that can have in the rest of the elements, in the rest of the decrees. Therefore, we understand that it is a nuclear issue, a very important issue that needs to be clarified and that, as I said, also conditions the body of law in its most important characteristics. There could have been more, as I said, times could have been shortened, but I believe that this has been a law that has cost us a lot to get ahead of, that has had sticks on the wheels, that has had resources, that it has taken time to have a ruling by the Constitutional Court, and that has undoubtedly delayed and has made it difficult for the normative development of this law, so perhaps the most prudent thing was not to run, the most prudent thing was to take enough time for all the normative decrees to have sufficient legal certainty so that at a given time no one could intervene or the remedies that could be put in place would not introduce us into a dynamic of legal uncertainty that would probably bring us back to a time past that, of course, once the law was launched, once these decrees had been issued for nothing would have been desirable for any group and without a doubt much less for this Government. And the second fundamental block in the compromise amendment that we have adopted is that of rental policies. This compromise amendment, as I said, has prioritized the whole issue of regulatory development, but I believe that the agreement that we have reached today by the various parliamentary groups represented here is no less important in terms of rental policies, because I believe that it is not a baladí issue, and moreover the Government has been working for a long time to promote rental policies that are innovative and above all that respond to the needs, as, for example, the Councillor explained to us the day he explained about his department's budgets. I believe that we have reached a far-reaching agreement on future rental policies and I believe that we have also ratified another agreement that we have already adopted at the time, but that it was also important to put it back on the table today as it is the need to continue to improve the operational integration of public societies, in this case Visesa and Alokabide. I think it is important that we bring this issue back again, I think today has not given us time to delve into the issue, but somehow we will also have time to discuss this issue during this parliamentary term. But, as I said, fundamentally, the important thing, what we have adopted today, is all about rental policies, the impetus to policies that, in some way, will ensure that everything the Government is already working on is effective. First, having a planning that is already contained in the Housing Master Plan, that will undoubtedly require budgetary support that we hope will be sufficient to be able to carry it out. In this respect, I also appeal to the commitment of the opposition parliamentary groups, who, through their amendments – I have no doubt – will be barring in favour of work on this issue. Also in the establishment of fiscal measures, which I believe is very important, and we have bodies which undoubtedly have a lot to say on this issue, and which I believe are opening up a very important field in order to be able to embrace, in order to be able to promote these rental policies, such as also the establishment of rental price benchmarks which, without doubt, and even if they are not binding, I believe that they set out some scales which can also benefit the consolidation of these policies. I therefore believe that today we have reached an agreement that once again supports the housing policy of this Government, the Housing Act that was debated and adopted in this Parliament during the past parliamentary term, and in this regard I believe it is good news that once again all parliamentary groups have joined forces to work with this Government to boost this law, its normative development and the policies that must accompany it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u128	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u129	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Well, the last thing he has to do is talk about his advantages, and today I think I have an advantage. Because you who have spoken before me have clearly explained the reasons and content of original enterprises, and also the content of the agreement which we have obtained in the present day between all the groups of this legislature. I also agree with what Madame Olivet has said, that three undertakings, and perhaps two similar, in respect of the motives, but not of your law, and I believe that, in respect of your decision, she would have liked to play on two different points of argument, but, well, so it happened to us. Even so, we all agreed to give more importance to the growth of the law today, without forgetting the rent's promotion and the rent's bet, but, well, we may even be able to penetrate into another discussion. You've all made it clear what this deal is about. And I believe that the indispensable development of the law will always be one of the main challenges of the Housing Department during this time of law. He has also had difficulties in the Constitutional Court by appeal. It has already been solved and has doubtless opened a path for this development. I think it's all right to ask the legal report where he and the council are going to clear up, especially the IX. To all that is received in the chapter, is to give way to all that is received. Because it is of extraordinary importance, I believe, in a rental wager, in the use and market of vacant housing, and in the manner in which the light receives the laws, and how we shall guide them afterwards. Then, as we agreed on a previous discussion, we said that it was necessary that a plan should be made, or a calendar, because the law has its explanation, because it requires a lot of regulations, and I agree with you that when you say that it would make it easy for everyone to do that job. Because he doesn't have too much sense coming here and asking me to pay him a lot of attention if he says that this schedule will take two years from now. Well, let's step by step, so that we can ask you to follow the deadlines, but knowing when we're waiting for each thing. It makes it much easier, and then it places us in reality. In this development, no doubt, the decree which regulates the subjective right is important, but I believe, without denying any importance, that this right is now given to the person who has this right, and, well, there are many things on this side which this decree ought to receive. Mr. Don Calogero has also said that there has been a process of participation, that there have been some contributions, that the document has been well made, and then a number of other things, including how the management of preparations will be done, the personal problem also... This may have slowed the transfer of this decree, but we've already agreed on the deadline today, and let's hope that we don't talk about it again from this tribe. I mentioned it before, IX. The development of the chapter. Maybe there too... Ms. Llanos also said that we have differences. We're talking about Kano. He has said that perhaps in this legal report we ought to receive it, whether it has complicity or not, in the administrative procedure in which we ought to make a vacant apartment when it is announced, and in what circumstances they are exempted... All that must be specified a great deal. And IX. We have, no doubt, spoken of political measures and so on about the development of the chapter. Here we have said that when we were going to move empty houses, we were not so favourable to punishment as to be favorable to success. Or the favors of the hospitals. Well, we've settled all this on the sixth point of our agreement, but it's opened enough, and I think we'll have plenty to say about these measures. Then, it's a commitment as well as a joke that after two years, they won't be encouraged to buy a house, but that's all going to rent, and that's pretty clear, too. And then I think it'll be a matter that will give us a chance to argue with the rental price on the free market. This boundary gives me at least doubt, whether it will be morally and indeed the effect we really seek. Miss Llanos has also said something about it, and I have doubts about it. We have only seen that, by all the guarantees offered in that vital program which is to be taken from the rental, this boundary of the revenue is rejected by a large number of homeowners in renting their homes. Then I don't know. Let's do it right and not make up our minds to make a majority of the price just as we reply against what we hope for. What we've got today was to put an index on it and the Generality of Catalonia has also decided something of this kind. It's not a co-worker, but anyone who applies it or respects it can later have a few prosecutors or a few benefits. And I think we might be able to leave it, and I agree with Mrs. Llanos that it might perhaps be the right thing to do at the present moment, because the other men doubt me both morally and also in the results which may come to pass. Therefore, in conclusion, we have once more agreed upon the subject of the housing, which means that differences are agreed on in matters of essential importance, and I hope that we may be able to arrive at such an agreement in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing to responses turn. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u131	Very short. We have accepted with one mouth, and it is grateful that I have not had time before to thank you and be grateful to the will, but in respect of all will. And I think it has been proved, I think, that we all have said, that there were two substantial issues, and that we finally decided that the point of increasing the rental policy was not so much the risk of not getting into harmony, is that it? That's why we wanted them, and that's why we had two very different discussions from the beginning. On the one hand, the development of the law, because we knew that it would be possible to arrive in harmony, is another, in relation to the political policy of rents. You have mentioned Mrs. Llanos and Mrs. Beragon, in part Mr. Alegezana, that we shall not arrive at consent or at least not so easily, we shall not be so easy to agree. That's why we wanted to make two discussions. At the rent, for an example, on the index. With that index, I'd do a lot of things, and we'll never get together. That's why we've put a flex in the proposition to establish these reference indexes. We'll see what we could do with it. I've said it long ago, I'd put a limit to the rent, I have no doubt. But, well, we'll never make a deal of it here. That's why we wanted two discussions. So we've agreed with the rental police a vague measure of reference to the prosecution, that we'd never get to a general agreement in it, I wouldn't like the name, but maybe I'd put the correct measures, not just positive measures, right? Well, that's why, isn't it? And I'm glad we've come to an agreement, but it's especially because we haven't entered deep into the discussion about the rent-poxies. But still, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u132	Thank you, Madam Mount. Martínnezion shouldn't talk. Miss Llanos, Mr. Arreza... Nobody. All right. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote EH, the Basque Popula, the Basque Socialists, the half-correction signed by the Podemos and Eucobertians together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u133	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. "The eighth point on the theme list, "Moce, Carmulus Barrius Barroja, a member of the Pilpula team, was introduced by Gastian José Uruñau, dancing Contservatory, 2018-2019, in the course of the year of the study of Euskal. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I want to give you two joys. One, there's a deal, but we already know that's not enough. And the second is that I'm going to be very brief. First of all, we are talking, as we did in the inquiry a couple of weeks ago, about the integration into the public network of the Conservatory of Dance José Uruñuela, within that public network of teaching. And after that questioning we had with the counselor, we decided to introduce this motion. A motion that has finally been signed through a compromise amendment and that will, as I know, support all parliamentary groups. We have spoken repeatedly about this issue in the Basque Parliament; the various parliamentary initiatives have been different in recent years, there has also been a reflection in budgetary amendments, as I said before we raised an inquiry... On the same day of the interpellation there was an announcement by the City of Vitoria regarding news in the sense of integration, and we said in the process of that interpellation that we were willing to help with a motion, and this parliamentary agreement is that, it is to help the Government with a motion. And what does this motion say? In relation to this process, with this definitive integration of the Vitoria-Gasteiz dance conservatory into the public education network, this one says three things, three clear things, where we talk about deadlines. And in this sense the first point of the compromise amendment is that the Basque Parliament urges the Department of Education of the Basque Government to formalize before the end of 2018, that is, in a few weeks, the agreement on the integration of the Municipal Conservatory of Dance José Uruñuela into the public education network with the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz. The second is that the Basque Parliament also urges the Department of Education of the Basque Government to ensure that the process of final integration into the education network of the Department of Education takes place as soon as possible, within 2019, promoting a normalized transition and the stability of the centre. Something that was logical, that was wanted and that we all came demanding. That is, first the convention in 2018; secondly, integration in 2019. Thirdly, logically and as a result of all this, to urge the Department of Education of the Basque Government to carry out the necessary actions to enable the necessary budget allocation for integration. Mrs Uriarte, as you see, we have helped you, in this case, with our inquiry, with our motion, and now with the unanimous parliamentary agreement, so you have 2019 to make this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u135	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u136	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Everyone here will agree, at least at the theoretical level, on the educational power of human development and the values that artistic teachings provide. This type of teaching brings us many benefits both at the training level and in learning from other areas and at the level of personal growth. And that is why it is extremely important to bet and support this type of study. Through dance, a discipline that we address today, we offer countless tools to develop the affective social capacities that are basic...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u137	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u138	... for the development of basic cross-cutting competences. In addition to physical benefits such as psychological. In this, more or less, we will all agree. However, when we talk about betting, we also talk about supporting. To support not letting the centers die, not putting administrative barriers on them. We are talking about supporting the development and good management of centres with resources and without bureaucratic obstacles. All centres and all their levels, from elementary education to higher education. And we say this because sometimes it gives us the feeling that this government only supports higher artistic teachings. The big projects, the star projects. And it will do no good to bet and support Musikene or Dantzerti, where higher music and dance lessons are taught, if not bet and support also to the municipal centers where elementary levels are taught. There's no point in supporting him. It will serve no purpose and support by Dantzerti if it is not bet and supports the Municipal Conservatory of Dance José Uruñuela de Vitoria Gasteiz that it is who equips students and students to Dantzerti. And this is where we focus today's debate. At the Municipal Conservatory of Danza José Uruñuela de Vitoria. A conservatory that has been in existence for more than 30 years, since 1987, offering boys and girls the opportunity to obtain quality vocational training in dance studies. A municipal conservatory for which this Parliament has been fighting for years for its integration into the Basque public education network. Already at the time of the mayor José Ángel Cuerda, the conservatory José Uruñuela was called for to be integrated into the public network. We listened attentively, in the past full of control, to the list of steps that must be taken in order for the municipal conservatory to become part of the Basque public education network, and from Elkarrekin We have merely amended the motion that Mr Barrio has put forward from the point of view of starting a date, a firm commitment on the part of this Government. Most importantly, we think it's achieved. We all agree that the Municipal Conservatory of Danza José Uruñuela will become part of the public network. However, it is urgent that the deadlines be accelerated, and while this integration is taking place, in recent months and after the retirement of director Carmen Trecero, the school has been subjected to an undesirable uncertainty for a prestigious centre such as that of José Uruñuela. We therefore called on the Department of Education to ensure that the centre is well managed so as to continue to be a reference centre in vocational education in the light of the current situation and until it is integrated into the network. It has been, as Mr Barrio has well explained, possible to agree because all the groups, as it could not otherwise be, we agree with a historical claim by the conservatory José Uruñuela, and now it is only to be expected that the department will now be able to meet the deadlines to which it is urged and that it will become a reality. For us it would have been important for such integration to materialize at the beginning of this course, it would have meant an improvement in the rates at which families have to face. However, we are pleased with the agreement reached and we only expect the Government to comply. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u140	Good-bye, Budenas tardes. We're at the last point and we're throwing it away, counselor. Education issues: today two agreements unanimously, two more the previous week... I hope that this is not an exception to be put in a framework, but that it can become a rule. Well, let's do it. The Conservatory of Dance José Uruñuela is known and recognized by itself, for its trajectory, and for its education and diffusion of dance. It has, as Edurne said, been operating since 1987, offering the possibility of obtaining vocational and quality training, with also hours of professional education of dance compatible with compulsory primary and secondary education. It is a reference, both in Euskadi and outside Euskadi, in addition to making Vitoria a city of tourist interest for the rest of European cities, because this municipal school is the only school that provides artistic lessons of dance regulated on its two levels, the elementary one, with four courses, and the professional one, with six courses. In 2014, a Bildu GNP was already submitted and a compromise amendment signed by the proposers of the proposal, by the Nationalist Group and by the Socialist Group, which consisted of two points, was adopted. The first called for the recognition of the heritage and trajectory of the municipal dance conservatory, the consolidation of its project and the guarantee of its future; and the second called on the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture to agree with the City Council of Vitoria, within one year, on an itinerary leading to the integration of the conservatory into the public network of the department. This has obviously not been the case to date, and that is why we are back here, after four years. Although steps have been taken to advance this integration, the fact remains that it has not yet been completed. We understand that negotiations are not easy, we understand that everything takes time, that many issues have to be dealt with, adapting the necessary measures, but it should not cost much when all the other political forces, in this case all those of Parliament, agree on how the issue should materialize, and it is that the Department of Education assumes ownership and the conservatory is integrated into the public education network. And all we do with this is acknowledge the prestige of this municipal dance conservatory. That the Government integrates this conservatory into its public network is a guarantee for the conservatory and we also know that it is well received by the municipal groups of the City of Vitoria, which also agrees with the integration into the public education network, and we want to see this government's will finally materialized. We know you have it, but you have to move forward on that integration to make it real, which is what we all want. We are pleased that the work of these years between the two institutions is bearing fruit and that this integration agreement is finally reached before the end of the year, which is what the compromise reached says, and that the final integration process is given as soon as possible. I'm done with this. In passing I announce to you that I have no intention of intervening in the second round.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u141	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u142	Thank you, Chief, and good evening to all. Well, as we said here, in the 80s, the Gasteize City Council made an important bet for the dance, and since that time, José Uruñuela is a project that has been very rooted in the city and has made a great contribution to the dance world. A long way and hundreds of dancers who have prepared themselves to be a refugee in the dance world. But not only in the city, but in Eukadin it is a well-run project, for Eukadin is not the public school which offers these lessons. Like the town at Vitoria-Gasteize, he's bet on dance and art scenic. In addition to helping you to the funding of the dance school, José Uruñuela, the public center that you had attached to the Esquecadian art and the dance class. And this creation produced an offer which had not hitherto existed in the dance world. The school at the dance gave elementary studies and professional studies, while from Dantzer there was a degree of high dancing title. So at this moment he offers the whole training dance or the whole career to the one who wants to learn to dance in the Eukaka. This is why the process of integration that will take place in the next few months is interesting to us in various ways. We have an excellent occasion for offering more consistency in dance lessons offered in the public Eukadin network, and, though respected by the autonomy of each, to unite and create unions in the best possible manner. In this sense, we find it interesting to reflect on the reports received by the Department of Education: besides the classically rooted dance, the necessity of strengthening the contemporary dance, the opportunity of giving an opportunity of giving lessons, in order to adapt the hours to more people, to become attractive to them, and to have a degree of study that may be connected with other studies; and to open a language offering and make room for the euphorium. Because we believe in the City Hall of Uruñuela and his project, and because it seems important to us to insert into the field of nature or the field of education, we requested the Board of Education in our correction to make a treaty with the Gastine Council before the end of 2018. And in the same way, we'd ask the department to make the process as fast as possible the educational grids of the century would ever be able to complete the process. The process of forever integration demands a great deal of work on all the sides that are produced and we can distinguish two moments or stages. First, the phase of the agreement. It is necessary to perform a memory, to perform a text of the Covenant, which explains the will and commitment of two Institutions to Integration; for the rest must be well defined, and the duties belonging to one and the other. In this language's proposal we have to make legal reports, even the Ogal Department has to make reports, and then accept the Government Council. And at the same time at the Gastine City, the two institutions must make their way as soon as they sign the text of the agreement. And in a second moment, there is a phase of integration. The new school which depends on public education must be formally formed, and must be attached to this school, the other to buildings, resources, and precise persons. That's where we should see terms, language requirements, abilities, etc. In this phase of the Integration, you're gonna have to make a lot of reports too, and then you're gonna start by a decree from the Government Council and the department will get it. It won't be an easy process, as I've just said, but the difficulties he found on the way will be over. It was made for the public school of the Latin profession, which is already dependent on the Board of Education, and in this case there is no doubt about it. As those who have spoken before, we have agreed to a middle course, and at the first point we ask the division to form the contract before the end of the year. In the second place, we ask him to develop the integration process within 2019. And finally, we ask the department to complete the necessary activities in order to complete the necessary budgets for integration to the damages required. It seems to us that this organization which is already in progress will lead Joseph Uruñuel to the field of education, and also to the support of all the groups, the happy news. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u143	Thank you, Mrs. News. "And the leader of the children of Israel [is] the leader of the children of Israel. Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u144	Yes, thank you, Your Honor. I saw him on TV. On this subject, too, in 2014, the Basque Country assembled, and, as Mr. Pastor also explained, was the first point of confessing the inheritance and course of the Conservation of the Conservatory, and I believe that this confession has been made, because these students have been a long, broad, and plentiful list, and have played on different ball-pains throughout the world. What quality is better than that test? But on the other hand, we also asked the Board of Education to agree with the Gasteian Council in 2014. We have to say, because things have to be said, it's late. In a moment, Mrs. Newori has developed what we were naturally asking for on that route in 2014. We used to think these explanations should have been here a long time, because since 2014, it's been four years. Anyway, it's been an announcement that in years and years and historically the sector has asked for, about changing headlines, passing from town to town to Christmas, and also that at the very moment when we defended him he was standing in the legal position, he could dance parallelly in the music committee. We're here four years later, and we'll support what's agreed on our side, just as we were prepared to support our initial initiative, and we think we'll be in a better place than four years ago, we'll think that, but not where we should be at all, and we'll have to admit that too. So we'll protect him, and we'd love to have the headline of the Conservatory next year, and cheer him up to it. And I think I won the speed date. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u145	Thank you, ma'am. [[Berber]] Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote for the Basque popular, the Basque Socialists, the half-correction signed by the Podemos and Euubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-15.u146	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. I'll read you an institutional statement next. The institutional expression. The Eusunian law has got information about how many El Salvador women are suffering from the horrible situation they suffer in front of a spontaneous state. It must be remarked that many of these pregnancys have been committed by children and young, wholly involuntary, and, more than many, by the close sex force of relatives. This leaves the children and young men in a state of no protection. "In the same way, many of the women are imprisoned by the mere suspicion of a volunteer, without the capacity of a fair trial and of defence. "Recently, activists in the defence of women's human rights in El Salvador have informed us of the situation in which Imelda Isabel Cortez Palacios, a Salvadoran woman imprisoned in the penal centre of San Miguel, accused of murder aggravated by attempted extra-hospital delivery, whose judicial proceedings were scheduled to be held on 12 November last, was again postponed for lack of assistance from the Prosecutor's Office, while Imelda Isabel Cortez Palacios remains in prison unjustly. "For all that reason, the Basque Act asks the institutions of El Salvador for a fair trial which will have all legal guarantees and proper defence for Imelda Isabel Cortez Palacios and all the women who are in the same position, to make a volunteer break in the pregnancy." It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was six-and-twenty in the evening.
