ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting, please. Single point in theme list: "The monographic argument, the political family, and the demographic challenge." The turn of the party that made the proposal, the woman of the Kotha, the representative of the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u1	Yes, ma'am, Congressman, chief physician. Good morning, everybody. For the past few months he's been in the middle of the public discussion about the demography change he's had, he's filled a lot of headlines, a lot of editorials, a lot of different opinions have been published on the subject of this discussion, and he seems to have a problem with this people...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u2	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u3	Or rather, that there are important challenges for this country about items that are mentioned and not mentioned. In the midst of this great worry which is being made more general, President Urkullu introduced us to the Basque treaty of Family and Childhood in January. In the words of the Government, there is a tacit agreement, a compact which has been made to alter the policy of future families and children, and with which, at the same time, there is an agreement which gives uneasiness to our party at least. For, after all, it is a covenant that unites the compacts in its end with a great deal of words and designs, it is difficult not to agree in this universality, and, with various shades, I shall then determine all these shades; but it is certain that the paper holds everything, and that it is often there that the difficulty lies in the faculty of doing so from word to action. And it is certain that at the present moment it is no longer possible to put that way of action out of words. And in this our uneasiness, in the opinion of our party, is the error of the Government in planning, the error is seen in the general object and the confusion of its designs and expressions. And the lightness of being able to make quantum leap forward is essential. In this sense we are concerned that the framental treatment of the problem, the lack of obligation between the general arrangement of the treaty and the expressions of the members of the government, which have changed or altered as the days went by; that the focus of the treaty is again shown, and that all evacuations have been less effective, and that this challenge, as a country, has been sought to arrive as acommunicative problem, and, moreover, because it has been so clumsy of sybolism. I'm worried that family policies are more and more obvious from the signs of what's going on in response to the needs of a system and a job market, and that we understand family policies and family policies in a different way. As we have often said, because we understand the policy of protecting families in order to produce human and well-being in the centre. The worry, especially because the roots in our hands require a deep social modification, and because we see a great danger of falling into the balance to continue the usual, unless some logics change. We have already remarked that in the different controversies of the most beautiful families it was necessary to make a radical change, that we could not continue to make an eternal change, not only because the results of the previous experiments have been very bad, but because we are indispensable to protect the family from having a share in the consideration of our fair ones. III. The evaluation of the plan also requires this reflection, and the necessity of making the definitions and limits of the family police are referred to, as well as to the need of greenening. We are exposed to a change of Paradigma, which seems to us to be very evident. Even the street has made it clear to us, and there are two very clear figures which leave this change of paradigm. Look, this is one, and it's a picture of the treaty, which is for us the old paradigma, five men, the five men, that we must have children. This is the old paradigm. And this is the new paradigm when we women plan to move things. This is the new paradigm. That's enough for what we say, and we're in front of a plan that doesn't have a foot ahead of us. The distribution between productive and refractory system must be broken, and the distribution of the sex connected to it must be exceeded, because otherwise plans may be better, but there will be no modification. Our balances are completely broken. This is more and more obvious, and this requires no more symbolic policies, it requires changeable politics, and, alas, we do not see it in the practice of this government. And, look, we thought, and so we said, in a dispute about the matter, that on the pretext of this vast compact this Assembly of Laws would have an opportunity to arrive at this dispute, because we understand the proceedings of the great Gratitude. But it wasn't. The treaty, however, has still a long way to do it, if there is a real political will to carry forward its designs and designs, and if it is intended to give a true answer to those proclamations of March 8, we are in the presence of a long-term strategy, and the first principles are probably IV. We can stand in front of a family plan strategy, but the arrangement of what we've received in the treaty demands that we go beyond the plan. We'll have to assume some of the activities in high-presociate pretty sectors. If we really want to change the pattern of society, if we want to create conditions necessary for the production of people's lives, and if we're trying to do that strategy to protect real families and children and teenagers. In this sense, the necessity and value of the vast consensus were intended to express in the reversal of the treaty, and we agree in this, because a process of modification in this size is indispensable. We are in time to begin a serious discussion about demographics and beautiful families, and, above all, to open the paths of the vast consensus, so that we requested this monographic discussion. As the romances of the people demand an answer from the people, the contributions of the whole community are thought to be indispensable. We've got a lot to discuss, no doubt. And before I went on, I'd like to thank all the groups for their position in the monographic discussion, as well as the chief physician, because we all agree in one way or the other. We have all been willing to connect the terms, and it seems to me that the difference, in this manner, is very effective and constructive, and that I would like to remark. When we come to the subject of discussion, or come down, it is true that it is a society that grows old that ours are no doubt in the east. On the whole of general facts and population, the rate of birth is continually descending in ours, and is at this moment one of the smallest in Europe, whereas the age of antiquity is one of the greatest. We are losing the population, and we have fewer and older inhabitants. That's our picture. At present, we have eight births of one thousand inhabitants, and they are becoming more or less conspicuous from the average of Europe, and the old age of the society of the community is rapidly increasing. In addition, there are many predictions that the general rate of birth will be lowered even in the years to come, and especially because there will be fewer women at the age of reproduction. This is the panoama that we're looking forward to. Yet even in the eyes of such black facts a little light can be detected. The population data in the member this year is positive: There are over 4,000 people, and besides that, the number of people who have less than 19 years is increasing for the last few years. Two tendencies behind that in a great measure, right? The birth rate of certain local sectors and historically rejected arrivals. There were, therefore, shadows about the subject. Is it true that all the facts connected with demography seem to us to be disturbing? But, oh, oh, there are some who are not alarmed at the state of their birth rate. In fact, among many experts there are various opinions. During the interval, for instance, in the opinion of Unai Martín sociologist, the birth rate is not bad, and if we count on it for the last 20 years, it hasn't come down, it's gone up. In fact, the situation of the Eucharistic demography of our time, he thinks, is the best of his history, because he thinks it's good for the population to grow old, which means, in a sense, that we have a higher hope of life than ever, and that this is a social achievement. To descend, therefore, the rate of birth in this context is normal and good. So much opinions. But must we admit, that in the presence of this general state there has been some sort of discourse and uneasiness? It's connected with the funding of the well-being model, and especially with the needs of the labourers. The question that prevails is, whether there will be enough persons, enough in hand, enough to be able to afford pensions, public services, and so forth. And regardless of the picture as a whole, without doing the different vertices that result from the problem, there is only one solution, as if it were an immediate solution, and the rate of birth is to increase. And will Euskadi be extinguished in the absence of Basques, as Javier Elzo said in an opinion article, very successful in relation to the subject? Or, as Mr. Alonso says, is Euskadi at the head of a demographic suicide? Is this the main problem that Euskadi has right now? Man, I don't know. The truth is that, listening to these kinds of claims, it would seem that we have suffered a tsunami and lost a large part of our population. And it is also curious that these kinds of catastrophic claims come from those who have created the most anti-natalist conditions in history. And then, the truth is that we are often accused of catastrophes, but the truth is that... We have a great deal of a challenge in our hands, there is no doubt about it, and I do not wish to remove any importance from it. If not, we wouldn't propose this discussion. But in opposition to what is said and heard, I would like to bring to this discussion the opinions of some of the investigators who are expert in these matters, especially because our party feels the necessity of placing in its place those improper and fearful messages which are being opened on this pretext of demography. A lack of birth doesn't have to be a problem. The desire to increase the population is not scientific. In fact, religious or political purposes are involved. If it were a question, it would be a negative of fertility, the number of children women would not have. It is more troubling than the rate of birth that those who wish to be parents are not to be. In the second place, changing the tendency of fertility is extremely difficult, because there are many reasons involved. Between them, the cultural factors are very heavy. I mean, even if there's economic andboral conditions involved, there's other historical and cultural aspects to be considered. And changing them is very, very, very difficult. And in this sense, there are some significant facts. According to the euscal socimeter on families, personal reality becomes less and less associated with having children, and more and more are people who don't want to be children, and the percentage of those who want to be a father or a mother is descending among the young ones. And further, it will be extremely difficult to change fertility because the number of people who are at a age of fertility is limited. On the other hand, we believe that in a certain degree there is an insult to the endurance of the pension system in the rate of birth. Considering the discussions of these days, and seeing how the management and chances of the past years have been, it seems to us to say a great deal. And it is also hard to understand that when we have young men who have better training than ever, when they are obliged to go outside, when we have important work bags of unemployment, to say that the only formula is to increase the rate of birth for that substitution between generations of labor. Sara de la Rica talks of such things as these. I think balance and support are essential in this discussion, we now have the consequences of strategic therapy. This government, in front of us, looks the other way, has had other preponderances of work, and can now no longer be allowed to persuade them that the affair has arisen from one day to the next, and to bring a collection of other measures from the joke, the populist. Eukadi has a demographic challenge today. Like your four years ago, and if the roads don't change, it'll be a few years from now. The evaluation of the previous plan also shows that. In high-effectable sectors, the family view has hitherto been missing, it is said in this evaluation, although we have had three plans. Few means have yet been conducted in the development of these politics, and the affairs of the leadership are also referred to when political policies have been established in families, such as in the employment police. And, ladies and gentlemen, of those dusts, for these birth rates. There's no more. Opinion, which is a secure day, bringing in a treaty and a family plan, will continue to descend the rate of birth. And there's one thing that's certain, that in short time we won't be able to solve these questions and fears connected with the demography, because, at least, we don't know, there's no possibility of making boys and boys who will be directly connected at the end of the FP right now. If you've got such a formula, you should go and enjoy it. On the whole, there is no agreement between the connections of demography and the rate of fertility, and from this alone it is not correct to plan politics to increase the rate of fertility. Moreover, in the opinion of many people, it is no ethical use of the discourse of fear for the political interests of men, to answer or to answer the necessities of war, economy, or production, which are not paid, and which depend on women. As for this, we wish to make it clear that we women own our own bodies, that we do not allow our bodies and lives to be employed for productive, economist, and political purposes, and that we are as a party not protected by any policy that plans the use of our bodies. In the meantime, as I said before, it was in January that I had signed a pact, and it would require an introduction to the Basque Family and Childhood to aid the investment strategy and family in aid of the 4th. The plan. By the way, it's supposed to be a plan that takes two years of delay. President Urcullu was engaged to protect the Basque families, and even in the government of the groups supported by the Government there was this commitment to protect the families, and this delay for two years calls attention, in those policies which you have played for the first time. In any case, centrality is restored to this age of birth, and the focus to measures which the family has not been able to protect, and to measures which are of no use to regain balance. It is a planning that is mistaken for us, because it can completely limit the amount of modification to be given. This plan has a wide and new purpose, which must be admitted. In a great hein, as I said before, what we can share in this broadness. Conceptically, it is an undeniable attempt to place ourselves in another context, and we may be agreed on certain cases which are planned, but the discrepancies we have behind certain other matters are obvious. In our opinion, the planning itself, and the activity of the government, are evidently patches and contradictions; The poverty of children is to be avoided, but the measures to which restrictions are maintained are to be sought for equality between men and women, but the propositions made from the eternal logic are brought. They also appear in the text. It is said that there is no reason for aormism, but it is made in that same ratio of birth again. In the end, it's a remarkable tentitude for the eternal. We see that the reading is bad, confused, and interested. Wrong political point of view, based on permanent logs. We find that the strategy we're planning is that of want and inability, it's not just a pressure, status quo -- it's a precaution to maintain care, and change the distribution between the production and the sexual division. They do not at all respond to what thousands and thousands of women announced on March 8th. And in this sense, it must be said, there is no popular challenge without the complicity of the middle of society. And this is not just our opinion. CES himself, in the same line, has pulled out a dictatorship this week, and today he asks you to restore the current system with irrigation. And last month, even an orator who had been around the family strategy said that it is no longer an eternal thing to continue to do. And so far, what we have seen, and we believe that this will still be the means, the system and social organization, which will only be enabled to follow the same. What happens is that the Euskadi of the 21st century is not the ancient Rome in which the proletariat had a clear function, which was to procreate. We are at another time and, of course, I believe that people's expectations and especially women's expectations are very different. He's right when the president says the challenge is important, when he says this country has an important challenge. But we believe that this challenge is not confined to the rate of birth. Mr. President, the increase of birth is not the object of the nation, as you said, for the purpose of living with dignity every citizen of Spain, and I dare say that you share it. For the question we have in our hands is not, as the chief physician told us in these proceedings, that we must bring children either to maintain their lodgings, or to employ them; no, we do not mean the finances of the model of well-being, as has been said before. The question is whether we can choose children or not, to give them social and economic conditions. And the question is, that things have changed and many have changed, and that, as has been said before, personal realization is more and more connected with being children, and that they are more and more and more, and we must assume and contemplate people who will not wish to be children. And it's a matter of fact that we don't all have the same chances as parents in this town, which is very serious. It is a question of a society growing old; it is a question that life, by prolonging life, changes both projects and wants. The question is, that we ought to consider how and who will look after our old men, and the question is, that poverty increases amongst our old men, the prerogative of old age. The question is that in these surveillance works, women's lives have been precograted. The question is that the equality of choice between men and women is not given. It's a question of having a mother in this town that women are impoverished by 6% while men become at the same time worth five percent of their wealth. And the problem is that he's expanding the crack, because our job, the female work, is 25% more prestigious than the men's. The question is, that the invisibility and want of confession of care are maintained when the women who work in these works are migrating women. It's a matter of fact that social differences in this country are inherited, that 20% of our children are poor, that 3% of the community is in trouble with food. The question is, that the revenues of money are removed from the 10th of those who receive the rent of Berma when they have no children, and only three out of the ten when they have children of poverty. And the question is, that poverty accumulates in families which have children in the community, and not only in families which have children of little age. The question is that our young people can't start a life project until thirty years ago, and the question is that the state of our trade, of our business, of a market that moves between poverty and temporality, does not allow the project to survive. And the problem in this sense is that the greatest ones responsible for this precariousness are among the signatories of this pact, creating needs, their own, which is something like putting the fox to take care of the chickens. And the question is, the subpoenas of protection have suffered severe attacks during the past few years, and the case is that the last prosecutor reforms can't have the resources we need for other social investments as well as family politics. For you propose to look into Europe in this treaty, and where will those 1,600 of which will be derived from the last reform that has just been tried or will be tried? Hard. And the question is, that we have not the power necessary to answer many of these questions, with our hands tied to the complete dependence of the Spanish government. The question is, that the public policies of our days do not guarantee the dignity of every person. That's the real issue we think we're in now. It is true that we have a challenge of great dimensions, I share that with the lehendakari Urkullu, but in that I believe that this challenge has more to do with, as we said in a previous discussion, with good living than with birth. It has to do with balances and imbalances. It has to do with breaking with an unjust system and moving together and together towards other models. It has to do with restoring new balances between productive and reproductive work. It has to do with what we already made clear to women on March 8. It is our most urgent task to establish new balances, to recover dignity and happiness, that the balance of the construction of society is a matter in our hands. And as we have seen and heard what has been said in recent times about the demographic challenge, we believe that it is urgent and necessary to demercantilize lives and politicize happiness and dignity. That's urgent. Before this point we know that the situation which is planned puts the public in the face of great challenges, that it is of complex and various extremes, and therefore we believe that changes of structure and deep politicalities are necessary, which interpose the whole example of society. The question is that our present system is a social system, and the differences between men and women are situations. As they are matter of structure, they need structural solutions which will go to the roots of problems. Because reality hasn't changed. If we want to achieve a permanent and direct social and demographic pattern, we have to build a two-axis strategy. On the one hand, the change of social organization, and, on the other, the series of public policies directed to guarantee a decent life of people. And he must speak of it, of the division of employment, of decent work, of housing, revenues, children's schools, and we shall have to discuss the state and future of our children and old men. Of these kinds of politics some of them are IV. they may be grafted into the family plan, and others will be included in the niceties of other highly influenced sectors. And no doubt, and besides guaranteeing the basic rights and social justice of people, they will probably raise the degree of happiness and influence the rate of birth. We have no doubt about it. In this double discussion we have proposed to the thread of this monographic discussion, the propositions we have made. They are all solutions that seek to guarantee the happiness of all the members, children, adults, and worthy conditions of life. Ours is a series of solutions, directed to the possibilities of the projects of life. A set of measures for good living, proposals that arise from an intersectoral feminist perspective, that also seek a pact between generations, and that understand that the most effective family policies are those that seek to establish new balances between productive and reproductive work, promote reference public services, quality employment and a good system of protection. From this point of view, the collecting of the Basque Country, has brought to discussion the measures of the solution of 46 solutions, the projections of the solutions which are placed in this integrated strategy, and the proposals for public model and care, the solutions for the correction of the patches which are now in the system of confederations, and that, being understood by the unpresumed domestic policy of families, the measures and proposals of promoting the physical employment, especially by the measures of laborers and workmen who are feminated. The resolutions around the Housing Police, and, in general, proposals to enable the Institution; a series of precautions to protect the families who are most likely to protect, and the precautions to regain their equilibrium in function; the measures intended for the development of the protection, and in which the protection of the family may be extended. And of course, the propositions about the nicest taxes, without saying that if there is no resources, politics will be the next of nothing. A double strategy and an integrated point of view which seeks a new balance between the player and the producer, which forces the giving of the members of our society, and seeks an answer to many of those wrongs which are given to our society. Policy for creating another fairer society. Policy for creating the conditions that will allow the projects of happiness. Policies for a state under construction, which wants to keep its sense of community strong, of a living, just and supportive community. Good living policies. Sense policies in a decent state. Policies that seek to create a new social horizon. Let's build, from the negotiation of these proposals, and from the direction we can define in common, a new social north. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing on the other teams, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u5	Thank you, Mr. President, President, Chief, members of the legislature, all good days. I do not know, Mrs Kortajarena, whether it is catastrophic but, of course, in family policies in relation to the problems we have at birth, the low birth rate, ageing, the consequences of these specific issues in the future, also in the Basque economy, which leads us to be absolutely realistic. And after six years of Mr Urkullu's government as a lehendakari at the head of the Basque Government, we have to say that the policies of the Basque Government led by Mr Urkullu have been unrealistic, unambitious in relation to family policies. We understand that family policy needs to be equipped with the essential tools to address decisively the challenges we face as a society, to respond to the needs of its members, both individually and collectively, as well as to find a scenario where people can develop their life plan. Family politics must have tools to face the wants of our society, to answer the wants of the inhabitants, and to offer them a convenient stage for the people to make a plan of their lives. The family is configured as the basic unit of society, a natural medium for the development of its members and as the most effective network of solidarity support, especially in times of difficulties and uncertainty. We may say that the family is the fundamental unit of society, the environment of development of its members, and the most effective network of the solidaries, especially in situations of difficulty and doubt. The population of Euskadi currently stands, according to data collected in the Basque Statistical Yearbook 2017, at 2,171,866, of which 1,116,345 are women and 1,055,541 are men, and we have to say that it is the same population as 40 years ago. We're the same, but something or much bigger. This maintenance, relative maintenance of the population, has, however, led to changes in the demographics of enormous silence, which have undoubtedly to do with the fall of birth, fertility and a greater number of elderly people. The composition of Basque households and families has also experienced a process of change in recent decades, which has led to the emergence of new family models; although forms of coexistence have diversified, kinship relations remain the basic element of the constitution of households. At present, the majority of the population of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is grouped into households composed of persons with a family relationship between them; persons living in households composed of two related families, whether through marital, filiation or other relationships, account for 73.2%; and single-parent households, composed of a parent, account for 11% of the Basques' household. If we are talking about the birth rate in the Basque Autonomous Community, we must say that this rate is comparatively among the lowest in the rest of Spain, but in the rest of Europe and the world. At the present day, not only is the lowest birth rate of Euskal Autonomy in Er-Hordi, but we may say that it is one of the lowest in Europe. The number of births last year reached 18.240 in 2016, 3.2% lower than the previous year, according to data from Eustat. Among mothers of Spanish nationality, the decrease was 5.2%, while among foreign mothers there was an increase of 4.6%. The largest birth rate is for women between 30 and 34 years of age, with a percentage of 36.7%, and it should be said that in this age group there has been a decrease of one percentage point compared to 2015. If we look also at the data of Eustat, in the third trimester of 2017, the number of births reached the figure of 4,422, which means in that third trimester a decrease of 7,4 regarding the same period of the previous year. These data show the data and forecasts that are in the future, which we cannot be optimistic at all. The forecasts tell us that between 2016 and 2025, and according to Eurostat data, there will be a 22% drop in the number of births. The predictions of the future are not good at all, but contrary. According to the Eustatian data, this shows that between 2006 and 2025 years, the rate of birth will be 22%. If we look at the index in the short-term indicator of fertility provided by the INE, in 2016, the average number of children in Euskadi is 1.32, far from the 2.78 children on average in 1975 and the 2.1 children required for generational replacement. In the international context, the fertility rate in the Basque Country is also below the European Union, which is 1.58, very far from countries such as France, 1.96; Ireland, 1.96; or Sweden, 1.85. Among the causes that explain this decrease – far from the simplification that Mrs Kortajarena has made, which I do not know if it is entirely correct – is clearly the delay in motherhood, the fall in fertility, that is, the smaller number of sons and daughters that women have, in this case Basque women. And if we analyze the average age at which Basque mothers, whom Basque women are mothers, in Euskadi is 33.4 years in 2015, and is above the European Union, 30.5 years, but also by countries, such as Italy, 31.7; Ireland, 31.6; Luxembourg, 31.5; and Greece, 31.3. In addition to the fall in fertility below the generational replacement threshold, which requires the average number of children to be 2.1, it should be borne in mind that the number of women potentially capable of having offspring has been significantly reduced. We must also take into account another important fact, which is the data provided by the Basque sociometer, number 62, which is family-centred, a specific number which addresses family issues, and we are told in this number that in 2016 a number of people were consulted on the number of children they wanted to have and the result was that 45% indicated that two children and 32% three or more; only 11% indicated one child and 5% none. In other words, these data also show that there is a significant gap between the desired fertility and the achieved fertility, or the number of children they have and the number of children they would like to have. In speaking of the delay in family formation, mention should be made of the existence of multiple difficulties at the present time, such as youth emancipation, the construction of autonomous life projects. The average age of emancipated children, also according to Eustat data, has increased from 26.8 in 1990 to 29.7 in 2016. And already the poverty and social inequalities survey of the Autonomous Community of 2012, already told us and revealed the existence of almost 112,000 people who wanted to build a home and who could not do so for economic reasons. Also, and together with the low birth rate we have, we must highlight the ageing of the Basque population, which is going to increase in the coming years, and how the number of dependent elderly people is also going to increase progressively. Thus, in 2010 the percentage of people over 65 with some type of dependency in Spain was 24.43 %; in 2030 it will be 34.32, and in 2040, 59.07. Also in Euskadi the data tells us, according to the Eustat, that in 2017 a historical maximum of 145 people over 64 years of age has been reached for every 100 under 16 years of age. And according to the projections of the INE, by 2029 in Euskadi there will be 596,329 people over 65 years of age, 29% of the total, and of this percentage 200,000 will be over 80 years of age. The number of people over 55 will be around one million, that is, almost half of the Basque population. These data undoubtedly highlight the serious problem of generational replacement and the welfare challenges we face as a society. These facts indicate the problem of the generative regression and the well-being of our challenge as a society. The demographic issue will also have an impact on the Basque economy in the coming years, as, according to the findings of several studies and consultants, the Basque Country will have a deficit of 100,000 workers over the 10-year horizon. In the special report of Ararteko 2014, on policies to support families in Euskadi, it is already noted that in Euskadi, although the family structure with children remains the most common model, the evolution of family models must also be taken into account and, apart, the following elements are highlighted: the fall in marriage; the increase in cohabitation; the increase in divorces, separations, invaliditys; the increase in the number of births between unmarried persons; the prevalence of single parenthood; the delay in family formation and the age of first birth; the reduction in the size of couples; and the increase in the number and percentage of foreign children. Having realized the context and analysis of the situation of Basque families, with data that I believe, Mr Lehendakari, that they do not call optimism at all, I will focus on investment, on policies to support families in recent years: In Euskadi, according to Eustat data, household expenditure rose from 0.22% of GDP in 95 to 0.71% in 2015. Social protection expenditure from 1.15 % to 2.94% over the same period. In other words, all Basque public administrations spent in 2015 a total of EUR 487 million on all services and economic benefits for children and families, without computeing here the expenditure on tax benefits and the expenditure on GIR. If we take into account the balance sheet of the last two decades, it is clear that there has been an increase in spending on family policies, but we also have to say, Mr Lehendakari, that this development has been very uneven during this period. There was an initial phase of expenditure expansion between 1997 and 2009, with very significant annual increases and a later stage, from 2010 to 2015, where the growth rate slowed considerably, with a very significant decrease between 2012 and 2013. It should be noted that in 2013 not only expenditure on family policies is reduced, but also the relative weight of this expenditure on GDP as a whole in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, thus reducing the budgetary effort of the Basque administrations. In addition, the figures for subsequent years, while showing some recovery, show parameters lower than 2012, which bring the Basque Autonomous Community back to the situation at the beginning of the last decade. And if we compare ourselves with Europe, so much so that Mr Urkullu and this government like to compare themselves with Europe, it must be said that while in 2014 the European Union allocated 2.4% of its GDP to these benefits, in the Basque Autonomous Community it was allocated 0.72. And in that sense, reaching the EU average would be to multiply spending in 2014 by just over three, from EUR 483 million to EUR 1.6 billion. In this sense, the average of the European Union would be to multiply the expenditure of 2014 three times; we would pass from 483 to 1.600 million. In short, it can be said that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country not only spends less than the average of the European Union on social protection, but that in the field of the family the difference with the European Union is even more pronounced than in other social policies. After all, we can assert that the Euscal Autonomia Esquimia is less spending on social protection than on the European Union, and, moreover, with regard to the family, the difference of Europe is more remarkable than in other social policies. Let us now review the family policies implemented by the Basque Government. Act No. 13/2008 on Family Support of the Basque Parliament aims to establish a framework and the basis for developing a comprehensive policy aimed at improving the well-being and quality of families and their members from an integrated perspective. Hau law, family of the buruzkoak lagoon, family-politika integraleko markoa eta oinarria jartzea da helburu, hau yes, ongiszaren age family age beer kideen bizi-kalitaren hobekuntzara zuzendua. Economic support for families with dependent children helps to meet the economic needs related to the maintenance and care of children, and this law has been the subject of regulatory development to implement some of the established forecasts, especially as regards financial support for dependent children and conciliation aid. These aids are defined as a subjective right, provided that a number of requirements are met, and are regulated both in Decree 30/2015 of 17 March of the Economic Aids to Support Families with Children, and in Decree 177/2010 of 29 June on Aids for the Conciliation of Work and Family Life, which was also amended by Decree 31/2015 of 17 March. Apart from promoting reconciliation as an element of co-responsibility between men and women in the care of children, reconciliation policies are incorporated into those who are in a situation of extreme gravity or dependence. With regard to the perception of the Basque population of family policies, and according to data from the Basque sociometer number 62, 60% of the Basque population considers that the institutions have a responsibility to promote birth, with a percentage of almost 70% among those with children under 18. With regard to the reconciliation of family and working life, according to the same sociometer, 83% of the population and 88% of those who are of child-rearing age also consider that institutions have a more active role to play in this area. If we look at the 2015 survey of families and households, it is concluded that knowledge of these aids is relatively low, which has to lead to the reflection of this government. They are very well-valued aid, but they are aid which unfortunately are not fully known to the Basque population. And if we go to the degree of acceptance of these aids, the degree of acceptance of these aids is very high, since between 95% and 100% of the people who know these aids consider them absolutely necessary. If we go to the plans developed by the Basque Government, the purpose of the Family Support Act states that a package of measures is needed to support families. And the last Family Support Plan in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country included a series of actions, 169 actions, grouped into 15 objectives and 4 lines of action. It should be said that this plan was redrafted and 33 actions were prioritized. This Government had to prioritize and reformulate this plan in 2013 due to the inability to meet the objectives initially envisaged and the lack of implementation of many of the actions due to lack of budget. Undoubtedly, Mr Lehendakari, it must be pointed out that the convergence objective with Europe, as laid down in the plan itself, has not been met, that successive governments have failed to comply with the budgetary forecasts established at the beginning of the population of the plan, and that, if we go to expenditure on birth aid, it has been a total of EUR 307.5 million and the expenditure on birth aid at the end of it has been EUR 139 million. In other words, the initial forecast was EUR 307.5 million and EUR 139 million has been spent in the end. The same applies to the reconciliation of work and family life. The planned expenditure for the whole period was 205.8 million and only 136 million have been implemented. These data are taken from the evaluation of the corresponding family plans put in place. It should be said that the plan has also suffered from a system of useful indicators to measure the real impact of the adequacy of family support policies and their quality and degree of satisfaction on the part of the recipients. And it has to be said that the economic amounts of the budgets have decreased, especially those of conciliation in the years 2012, 2013 and 2014. And, of course, we understand that the issues relating to conciliation have not had during the years of validity of this plan either the importance or the determined political momentum that the issue required. We must also stress that there has been little weight in this plan for matters relating to education, especially those relating to childcare in the zero-to-three-year cycle, all of which has to do with school hours, the carrying out of complementary and extra-curricular activities. There has also been an important absence of specific measures relating to gender equality issues and the co-responsibility of men and women in the upbringing of minors. No specific measures have been put in place in relation to intergenerational solidarity and active ageing of the population. No calls for grants have been made to third sector entities working in the family sector. We have to say that the balance sheet cannot be positive in relation to the commitments made and the reality of the Basque population, with one of the lowest birth rates, not only in Spain, but throughout Europe, with an increasingly ageing population and a lack of labour also evident. The reality of this government is that you have recently approved a strategy for investing in the family that must be said to be late or rather late than what was announced by the lehendakari himself, who already announced in the middle of the election a multi-year investment of 200 million euros in four years. Obviously, all this has been significantly delayed and we have not seen that 200 million euro multiannual investment announced by the lehendakari. In short, Mr Lehendakari, two years late, and at the moment we know nothing of that 200 million euro multiannual investment that you announced in the middle of the election campaign. The reality is that successive governments have renounced the goal of convergence with Europe and have not been given the importance due to the social investment needed to give a strong impetus to family policies. For the last few years, Eusk0 has shown that he hasn't been able to set up the pre-predicted tools, especially to give an answer to our problems in order to develop effective policies. We can say, Mr Urkullu, that your two governments, and at least this one to date, have suffered from a clear lack of leadership, strong leadership and a clear ambition to advance family policies in Euskadi. It can be said that they have practically done nothing. It has not been your priority, Mr Lehendakari, and that which your Government and you have built up in the people's government. They presented themselves as the people's government in order to provide, it is supposed, a solution to people's problems and to put those citizens at the centre of political activity. Of course, we have to say that unfortunately this has not been the case. You in your two governments have not addressed decisively, or at least this to date, decisively, effectively and realistically the problems of the fall of birth, ageing and dependence presented by Basque society. Today we are in a full monograph, on the demographic challenge – family – and the one that comes out concrete measures, but concrete effective measures that, of course, solve the problems we have, depends exclusively on the will of your Government. It will depend on your intention to remain in self-congratulation or to face the needs and challenges that we have as a society. We have put forward a set of proposals which I am sure are not the panacea, but I do tell you that they have certainly not been thought about randomly and that they are trying to straighten out your Government's erratic family policies. I ask you to look at them carefully. In that regard, we are going to put forward a number of motions for resolutions which I will try to explain, not all of them, but the most important ones. We believe that it is important, Mr Lehendakari, for a Basque pact for reconciliation and equality that includes political parties, institutions and organisations in the third sector, and that place at the centre of Basque political action family and children's policies. We believe that the fourth inter-agency family support plan must be presented before the end of this session. We also need to establish a guide for families that collects all resources for Basque families. Everything is scattered, if you access the regulations and the help that Basque families have, you have to use different websites. We have a family observatory that doesn't give us an exact X-ray of the situation of Basque families. We have to push forward everything that has to do with aid, also to families; in this regard, we must say that the existing aid is absolutely insufficient in line with the convergence with the European Union that you also raised in that family plan. We believe that progress must also be made in supporting free education, and in that regard we are putting forward a concrete proposal. We also believe that children who have difficulties in special education should be facilitated, assisted. Well, there are many proposals that we put forward, Mr Lehendakari, but some of us believe that they affect decisively or that they attempt to alleviate the problems that we present as an autonomous community in relation to one of the lowest birth rates, at a very high rate of ageing, to problems with generational relief, to problems with which our young people leave Euskadi, because they do not consider that Euskadi is attractive enough to stay; and that, Mr Lehendakari, and this panorama that we have, which is certainly not very optimistic, is what you have also reflected in the evaluation of your own family plans. In this speech I have relied on many of your conclusions from your own family plans, of course, they do not invite optimism. They do not invite optimism, and therefore we do not understand that after the implementation of the III Family Plan we no longer have a new family plan. That is why, Mr Lehendakari, we do not understand that you are announcing multiannual investments of EUR 200 million and then that these investments are not really included in the budgets. That is why we in this plenary, and then when we debate and discuss the concrete proposals, have initiatives that try to address in some way the situation we have, and above all the challenges we face as a society. And I believe, Mr Lehendakari, that you, sincerely, after six years of virtually government, have absolutely settled in self-congratulation; that family policies have not been a priority, and the last legislature, did have to be cut, where it first cut was in family policies. There were specific aids, such as conciliation aid, which were halved with you as lehendakari at the head. We must therefore say to him that, unfortunately, not only for the People's Group but for the whole of Basque society, family policies have not been a priority for its executive. It has been practically six years of government, and you as a lehendakari at the front, and we hope that this plenary can serve to straighten out, in part, an absolutely erratic family policy, an absolutely aimless policy and a policy that is not working. I therefore hope that you will take some of the proposals of the People's Party which is trying to correct the situation of the Basque families and, of course, to alleviate the problems we have. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u6	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u7	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group faces this debate with the challenge of talking about equality and the future, because the fundamental issue underlying family policies, those that we have played in the past and those that we have to take into account for the future, are expressly linked to issues of equality, women's equality and equal opportunities, without limitations for socio-economic reasons. This is the central idea on which we want to focus this debate today, proposed by the EH Bildu group, but which does so, and I want to say this, in case it is overlooked, because the government has taken the initiative, and because it has done so on the basis of a commitment made since the agreement we signed in November 2016 with the Basque Nationalist Party, and because this public commitment at that time set in the spring of 2018 to approve the new plan. We believe that following the usual order of things, and known this commitment and also known that this plan was based on a previous pact between the institutions and actors involved in the family and the rights of minors, we would expect the relevant communication from the executive and proceed to its subsequent debate and parliamentary improvement; this is done in other plans, but not with this one. Now yes, welcome. Welcome, because for the Socialists it was an inescapable issue on the agenda for this legislature, and that is not a mere statement, I will read literally what our electoral programme says, with which we are last running for elections and with which we feel committed. "Citizens and citizens have the right to constitute, if they decide freely, a family that acquires structures as diverse as different is our society. We Socialists recognize the importance of families as the core of the human relationship and of social, affective and community education, and for this reason we are strongly committed to the development of policies that facilitate people with family responsibilities, and those who want to constitute a family, the realization of their vital project in the best possible conditions. We believe that, just as no one is obliged to undertake a family project, no one should be obliged to renounce the project of starting a family, whether for economic or labour reasons. We are also convinced that family responsibilities, which have traditionally rested on women, must be shared among all members of the family; special attention deserves the thousands of single-parent households that exist in Euskadi for widowhood, divorce or free exercise of maternity or paternity alone; the vast majority of households are headed by women and are particularly exposed to situations of poverty. We will therefore promote a pact to support families who, through sectoral measures in the areas of economic aid, taxation, co-responsibility, care, housing and the world of work, remove the obstacles faced by many Basque citizens in undertaking a family life or in coping with the family responsibilities they have assumed." With regard to the Family Support Pact, it was established that effective public policies for co-responsibility should be implemented, through awareness-raising and training measures, allowing for the sharing of household tasks and care for men and women, and that the economy of care should be socially prestigious; that, depending on the income of the family available, it should develop the extension of support for the birth and maintenance of children; that it should encourage the necessary regulatory changes to ensure that fiscal policy is also an instrument of family and social policy, adapting to the working hours of parents and mothers; that it should implement an aid scheme for the care of children, through a system of check-service, developed professional care services in the home; that it should analyse the services provided by the haurreskolak, adapting them to the working hours of parents and mothers; that it should develop programmes for the extra-curricular and leisure-community support in collaboration with the education administration; that it should incorporate criteria for prioritization in housing policies for families that provide for mono-parental training and for collective leave; that it should be carried out by the employers's and employers's supervision schemes, and collective supervision schemes; This was the bet we made in 2016 and the one we will see reflected in this new plan and in this monograph. A paradigm shift in family relations, which is reflected in the analysis of the pact signed in December at the Basque Council of Families; an institutional coordination and social participation body, provided for in the 2008 law, but developed, not by chance, during the socialist term, two legislatures ago. And we say that it is participatory, because, without anyone questioning it to date, it accommodates not only the institutions and socio-economic agents, but also the representation of the different forms of family that exist: single, numerous, separated, disabled, immigrant or homosexual. It also accommodates the views of associations working on children's rights. This has not always happened; not always have all these civil organizations been heard to define the objectives of previous family plans. This time it is, and it's no big deal to keep in mind. So we believe that no one can avoid in this session that the pact where the foundations of our plan lie has a broad participatory and contrasting process behind it, and, more importantly, a very broad consensus. Consensus on the evaluation of the last plan in force, consensus on the merits and its shortcomings, and consensus on the issues to be corrected, all of them, as we have just pointed out, were reflected in our electoral plan, because we consider them very necessary and it is time to address them. And it still seems more relevant than ever, when we are finding that much of the consequences of the crisis of the last decade are translated into the destruction of jobs, precarious jobs, temporaryity, part-time contracts, widening the wage gap, impoverished pensions, and backwardness in conciliation and co-responsibility, and that all this has affected families and especially women. We are therefore talking about freedom to make up families, freedom not to make up if you do not want to, but that there are no impediments to doing so with anyone you want, as you want and when you want to. What this pact proposes to us is that we do not confine our discussion to a question of aid, to assistanceism and paternalism, to the mere promotion of birth; that we see the risks that exist when someone wants to make the decision to form a family, and this condemns him to poverty or the risk of exclusion, which leads to minors being unprotected and which leads them to inherit situations of inequality of origin from their families. We have built a Euskadi with public services that must guarantee the rights to health and education without looking at the current issue of anyone, and it cannot be that the way in which these children are protected binds them to inherit inequality. And this is one of the strengths of our reflection: freedom to create families and investment in children, not being seen as spending, but as a future bet, a country bet. Have we been wrong so far since family public policies were deployed in the first decade of this century? Or is it that the failures are only of the III Plan, which we have to review and update? It does not seem that in this matter any of the groups we are here have to talk about failure. And I say none, even though some have recently joined and believe that things may not go with them, because even within them there are formations that have participated in these strategies in the past. I would like to recall, for example, that the pre-existing plan, which was drawn up by Councillor Azcarraga in 2006, had measures such as increasing child support and conciliation, increasing places in haurreskolak or encouraging paternity permits. Nor did he lack criticism for insufficient, but no doubt he went ahead, he went ahead of what was done in Spain as a whole. And the III Plan, which we now evaluate, went beyond that. And as it is recognized, even in spite of the crisis, he got a timid rebound at birth. In this one that we have ahead, a global balance is made within the Basque Strategy for the Family and Children. Of this trend of policies that have been, as I said, fundamentally aidist, even, despite the fact that the 2008 Act set more ambitious objectives, which my group considers to be in full force. And what is more worrying, even if it was against the will of both the legislator and the various governments, has allowed to deepen both gender inequalities and social inequalities. The Socialists and the Socialists were already pointing out these deficits. This was moved by our secretary-general, Idoia Mendia, in the Monograph on Paro and Poverty that we celebrated three and a half years ago in this House, where, among other things, we put on the rostrum the concrete problems faced by the increasing number of single-maritime families, with women carrying out their children in solitary confinement, and other realities that in some cases might require help, but in other public services, to have the guarantee of reconciliation, when there is no other hand. This is a matter that we have reiterated in every plenary session of General Policy, because it seems to us to be a central issue. As already stated in those speeches, we were being called upon to pursue other policies of birth, reconciliation, housing and education, as is the case for traditional families. Because it has cost a lot to conquer the right of women to make their own decisions. And it can't be that deciding to be a lonely mother is a new glass ceiling. We wanted this debate on families to become a mere debate on aid, so that it would become a debate on rights. And a couple of years ago, my partner Rosa Fresno, too, pointed out that, in addition to legislative changes, which we not only demand, but that the Socialist Party is pushing in the Congress of Deputies, we had to start by doing what is in our hand. For example, in the Basque public administration, with flexible measures at work, in those positions where it is possible to explore the extent of telework in public positions; encouraging social agreement in collective bargaining, so that parents have the children they want, without fear of losing their job or well-being; and that men and women also care for their dependents, especially the elderly in an increasingly ageing Euskadi. We must work to prevent single-parent heads of household from juggling to take care of their relatives; ultimately, that everyone can choose their family model without risking exclusion. In that we are, in a paradigm shift, as the pact points out and defends, and for my group that paradigm shift also goes through a culture shift. It said at first that we are in a debate of the future, a debate that goes beyond birth policies, which have to do with a society of equals and rights, and which has to do with a demographic reality that needs to be corrected in the short, medium and long term. And that although it will not return to the levels of the past, its trend would never change, to the extent that we want to achieve, if stable family policies are not maintained over the years, that they will be able to change those trends. This reflection was already a strategic issue in the Socialist Government two weeks ago, in which the lehendakari Patxi López wanted to put forward medium-term policies to respond to all the consequences of this phenomenon, which is to stay for quite a while and which will affect our public services, employment and family realities. And we began by reviewing one of those basic pillars of our welfare system, such as the chronic health strategy, which has been consolidated today and is seen as an example in other communities. As in the public sphere, from the administration, pilot experiments, such as telework, have begun, which has proved to be a tool that facilitates reconciliation. An experience that also wants to be consolidated, as do the non-transferable parental leave that has been a repeated demand from this House. But we also share that fear, which has already been expressed publicly, that there could be a duality between the public and private sectors in matters of conciliation and co-responsibility, but that must continue to be legislated, also in the General Courts, and take decisions that guarantee real equality between men and women, that being a woman does not entail a penalty if it is decided to form a family. It is a way of intervening in the private sector, because we are talking about an issue that affects society as a whole. However, we cannot and do not want to intervene in collective bargaining; we do not want to interfere in the area of social partners and their fundamental role in the construction of workers' rights. That is right, we must promote those agreements, and from the Department of Labour and Justice we are leading the process of concerted efforts with social actors to extend these measures to private companies. It is an undertaking of my party, but it is also a unanimous agreement of this Parliament, which we are not going to consent to be left on wet paper, out of conviction and obligation, because we do not take parliamentary mandates for the sake of inventory. The wage gap, labour fraud, in which this income gap is largely explained, is also a reflection of those public policies that consolidate that only reconcile them and, therefore, a focus of inequality to be addressed. That is why this session is once again an opportunity to ask all the social actors to sit at a table again, to propose measures that lead to collective bargaining and facilitate this freedom that I have been talking about from the beginning, to decide whether to form a family and that this does not entail a burden on equality, together with achieving policies aimed at eliminating fraud in temporary and part-time recruitment. This is the point where we are, being aware that all groups have participated in voluntary policies, in policies that have been good but that are proving that there are no children to receive money in return and that we are already late in the reaction. That we have failed to reverse the low birth rates and the perpetuation of inequality. That the current model reproduces that of always, that for which they are the ones that remain at home to the care of minors and older people, that expels them from their professional careers, that drags them to partial jobs, that condemns them to precariousness and to reduce their income, that leads them to dependence during their working life and to the risk of poverty when they can retire. And another issue that is clearly pointed out in the analysis of which this pact starts is the difficulty of the emancipation of youth, which is a direct factor, which influences the difficulty of forming families and being able to decide whether to have children. Today, in the Basque Parliament, it turns out that there are a majority of voices calling for a comprehensive law on this issue. But I can only remember the last full session of two legislatures, when at the last moment of it, at the last second, that option was pushed back, only because it came from the hand of a socialist government, and only because it wanted to punish it on the eve of an election. We have to add this reflection to the bag of explanations for which we are going late, in particular six years, despite the long participatory process, despite the fact that for the first time the young active agent of a changing society was considered to need tools for its formative development, work, experience and advance real emancipation. But let us look to the future, so, and even if it is not a concrete subject of debate in this plenary, my group looks at the plan that will have to come in weeks, but look at what we want to see later. Therefore, in the proposal for updating our self-government, we have proposed that the new Euskadi be defined around the determined will to build a community in full equality between men and women. It implies the effective guarantee of their rights and their recognition as an active part essential to the progress of society. We believe that from the very preamble of the new Statute and its articulated development, we proclaim that in the exercise of women's freedom, the new family realities are considered and that this is reflected in a new way of shaping economic, labour and social relations. We will have to continue to talk about the country in which women and men, with equal rights and equal obligations, can develop their life projects with dignity, and public authorities forced to guarantee them. That is how we understand self-government and that is how we want the new Statute with real and full rights. The Socialist Group is firmly convinced that everything that affects our society, its challenges, must be built with all. We hope that it will be possible to do so at this meeting after the consensus reached at the Basque Family Council, and we hope that we will do so as soon as possible. If we can't change the present, we'll never change the future. That is our challenge in the family and childhood strategy in our Basque Autonomous Community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u8	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u9	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Congressmans, chief physician, President. Eduardo Galeano said that, as we know, in black Africa and indigenous America, your family is your entire village with all their living and dead, and your kinship doesn't end in humans. It also speaks of the crepitation of fire, the rumor of the running water, the breath of the forest, the voices of the wind, the fury of thunder and the rain that kisses you. And also the canterium of the birds who greet your steps. Considering the beautiful and rich metaphor of the author as a premise, I will present the contributions of the Podemos together today. In the opinion of our team, speaking of demographic challenge and families requires an inevitable wide view. All the limits of society must therefore be considered and connected with depth. First, in order to help us extend the view, I will explain the meaning of the concept of family. When we talk about family, in Elkarrekin We can talk about people who decide to live together or share everyday life, people who decide to take care of themselves in the most basic needs, but also in the emotional ones; needs that are covered in the most diverse subjects – education, health, principles, culture, economic support; people who are accompanied in the joys and are there to face pains and difficulties. A group of people who are being protective life jackets in a world and a socio-economic model that very often generates precariousness, inequality and injustice. A group of people who sustain the lives of those who need the most care, which we want to place at the centre today: of children and adolescents, of older adults, of people with functional diversity and of all those who are temporarily or permanently dependent. This is for us a family and, therefore, from there we will focus today's plenary, not to mention that these families, forced to be the life jacket for so many, must assume this role because of the absence of public policies that support them enough. Families that carry a very large weight, that carry with all the tasks essential for social reproduction and the maintenance of life. Sustaining the life that in Euskadi is synonymous with grandmothers, sisters, aunts, grandchildren, who rise up to care for the creatures or the great-grandfather in the hospital. It is synonymous with mothers who must give up their professional career, it is synonymous with overtime to complete precarious wages and endless hours that no one pays or values. It is synonymous with pensioners who are putting their shoulders on when the unemployment of their daughters and children is prolonged, when mortgages cannot be dealt with; it is synonymous with women heads of household alone, who come forward with much effort, it is synonymous with young people who come together to share the expenses of a home or not so young. It is synonymous with young people who go to other latitudes to fulfill their emancipation projects; it is synonymous with families who arrive from other latitudes with suitcases full of dreams, projects and illusions and find endless obstacles. It is synonymous with people who choose to live alone making up one-person families and are essential for the care of mothers, parents, nieces or grandmothers, it is synonymous with families made up of people who also said to open their homes to foster care or adoption of children. We, today, are putting measures on the table, measures for debate and consideration, because we want families to stop being forced to bear that burden, a burden that we understand must be shared by the public authorities. We want social reproduction and the sustainability of life to cease to be a daily struggle. We want families to stop assuming everything the state is missing. We want the State to create the conditions necessary for families to be spaces for enhancing dignified, full lives, projects, dreams, co-responsibility meetings and protection. We want that care that is at the heart of this discourse to be also at the heart of public policy and economic interests. That is why we want to involve all groups, and in particular the Government, in making a common analysis of the problems experienced by families from this broad and feminized perspective, in order to contribute to the construction of structural solutions that go to the causes that make our families life-saving and not safe spaces. To talk about families, as the inter-institutional pact presented in January says, is to talk about policies of a social and demographic nature, which, of course, and in our view, go far beyond the few commitments that this Government has put on the table, beyond the country's objective, beyond increasing birth and increasing support for families with children. And while I do not want to devote much time to data, I do think it is important to point out some issues that make it clear what we are talking about. The present and future young people of this country in Euskadi have to devote 54% of their wages to access to a home on their own and up to 66% if the home is for rent, this over an average wage according to the Youth Observatory of 1,094 euros. That is, young people from 24 to 29 years who after working with a contract 40 hours a week, have about 450 euros left to pay for electricity, water, taxes, eat, dress... So you can hardly think of expanding the number of members of your family, don't you think? It is Euskadi who has one of the highest emancipation rates in the European Union at the age of 29, far from the top 10. But let's not just talk about young people, let's talk about poverty. 62.7 per cent of situations of real poverty correspond to four specific types of household: foreign persons from outside the European Union, 26.4 per cent; persons over 45 without stable occupation, 13 per cent; persons under 45 without stable occupation, 12 per cent; and single-maritime families without stable occupation, 10 per cent. Unemployment and precarious employment are by contrast in the different barometers the main problem of Basque families, regardless of their composition, followed by health-related issues, data that we do not say, emerge from the evaluation of the III Plan for Children and Family. In relation to Europe, the Autonomous Community reduces very little the poverty of children, adolescents and their families, and this, I insist, is not ours, but the evaluation of the III Plan for Children and Families. With regard to the effectiveness of protection systems in reducing poverty, we see – as Mrs Kortajarena has already pointed out – how to reduce poverty by 86% in the case of people without dependent minors, but it drops to 26 when there are minors in the family. Without calling into question the protection mechanism that has alleviated the worst consequences of poverty, we do believe that this data shows something serious. In our opinion, having daughters and children in Euskadi pushes you to a greater risk of poverty, makes your life more precarious, more difficult and less viable. So, before we discuss what policies we think we need to implement in order for people to have more children, we should talk about what is the problem of those who are already here. A problem that resides on the basis and has to do with social inequality. A problem that confirms that in our society there is the infantilization of poverty. A problem that shows that young people cannot emancipate, therefore, have life and family projects is impossible. A problem that shows that women continue to suffer more precariously, bearing the burden of care, worse pensions, greater responsibility for the well-being and development of children. We continue to have worse access to our sexual and reproductive health, we continue to find it difficult to live decent lives and, therefore, to decide freely whether or not to develop life projects and expand or not our families. A problem that shows that our elderly people are experiencing a systematic precariousness since the beginning of the crisis, the beginning of the crisis that made them become with their already precarious pensions in the livelihood of many families. A problem that is also seen in the fact that girls, boys and adolescents suffer and consummate violence on a constant basis, they consummate and suffer poverty, in some cases, and uncertainty in almost all, issues that also make it difficult, and very difficult, to have family projects. A problem where employment is increasingly precarious, guarantees less and covers worse and therefore does not mean guaranteeing rights. The job no longer gives people the possibility of imagining a future in which there are daughters or children, and in many cases it does not even allow the possibility of imagining a future tomorrow, what we are going to say to consider forming a family. It is a problem that also affects those who have had to leave Euskadi, the ones and those we have thrown out of this land, and who have built up life and family projects, but have no possibility, nor any effective support to be able to return, if that is what they want. A problem that also affects many families of different origins and that today are helping to maintain that generational relief and also our care, and that, in return, are only obstacles to exercising their rights on equal terms with the rest of the neighbors and who, in addition, are absolutely invisible in the family pact. A problem that clearly echoes the kind of childhood policies we have. Let us take as a reference the evaluation of the III Plan. Three conclusions were noted that we wish to highlight. The first, lack of ambition and leadership in promoting more far-reaching and better articulated family policies; a lack of leadership that could be replicated in the pact, and that we understand is intolerable and hope it does not happen. It is also seen that in the III Family Plan there has been an express resignation from the objective of convergence with Europe, an objective that seems to have been resumed with the pact this year, but will be abandoned again along the way. The persistence of a very short-range look that prevents – and I quote – "the development of a real family policy in Euskadi" is also called into question. But instead of taking steps to correct this, we see again how, apparently at least, we repeat mistakes in the approach of the inter-institutional pact for children and the family, a pact that we understand must vertebrate public policy, because that is where the strategy and plan will be broken down, issues that, we want to remember, come late. It is not a receipt, nor does it make sense, to allocate time and resources to carry out assessments to disappoint them and continue to stumble on the same stone. But before I get into the content, I'm going to go to the shapes because I can't resist. I do not resist to repeat what our colleague Eukene Arana has already commented in this rostrum, but today I have the opportunity to ask you directly, Mrs Artolazabal, to ask you directly who was separated in the corner. Why is your leadership relegated to the schinita in the photo, Mrs Artolazabal, in such a central pact for social, employment and equality policies that you lead? Last week you yourself at a public event encouraged women not to self-exclude themselves, and of course, we cannot avoid the following reflection: Were you the one who self-excluded the schooner from the photo? Really? Do you think that the inequality between women and men is due to the fact that we women, competent and capable in so many areas, are self-excluded from the schinite? Phrases like that, among other things, explain the deafness of your department and your party to the massive demands of women, and it is a shame. How is it possible that our institutions talk and agree about birth without including us in the photo? How is it possible that your commitment to the country's goal is to increase birth and support for daughters and children, and to do so, I insist, without us, without women? How is it possible that from the basic principles contained in the pact there will then be no transfer of concrete commitments? This is a sign that makes us think that the signing of this pact can remain in a mere toast to the sun between ties, be, Mr Urkullu, of the color they are. And now, I am going to enter into the content of the pact, because I want to make clear our position on the children's policies that are being put on the table and on the debate today. The first of the basic principles of this pact speaks of recognition and support of family diversity, but there is no concrete commitment. Mention is made in the first of the commitments, and I read textual, saying "with respect for family diversity". The diversity of the composition of families, of their structure, of gender, of origin, of typology, of customs and uses, is a wealth, of which there is no doubt. But this diversity, in addition to respecting it, must be made a void, so that it does not become an ascension to the Himalayas to be able to live that diversity with freedom and equal opportunities. Because when girls or boys, children of single or foster families have to leave blank one or two sections of the forms, when those of the homomarentales families have to put mothers with a disease by ticking the father box, or those who come from other cultures or have a certain skin color find no reference, sensitivity or recognition in their condition in our speeches, in the textbooks or in the activities that are carried out, we are not respecting, we continue to isolate them. And of this, in his covenant, there is nothing. There was nothing in the third plan, and let's hope that this goes back to the room, and that we don't leave these people at the stand again. Concrete measures are indispensable, not accessory. The second of the basic principles speaks of co-responsibility and gender equality – and I quote the following: "condition sine qua non for increasing fertility". And this makes us angry. Because equality and co-responsibility between women and men is a structural necessity, in order to live lives worth living; so that half of the population living in Euskadi does not paint less than the other half; so that they can, we can exercise our rights on an equal basis; because it is law, because it is justice, because it is claimed by the population, because it is a matter of human rights, but not, never, as a mechanism of pressure on us. If the bet on co-responsibility and equality is such, take this into account and correct this from the covenant of men who decide on our bodies. Having said that, which is the basis, it seems essential to us to point out that the only compromise intended for this principle is to put on the table vagueness and common places, with lax objectives, such as that of favouring. Institutions have legal obligations, tools and opportunities to do more, and their duty is to do more. On March 8, the women told us loud and clear that it is worth a world without us. Let's be co-responsible for that, too, and let's hear it. If we do not make clear, measurable and ambitious commitments, we will remain exactly where we are. The third of the basic principles on the combination of direct care services and economic benefits are translated into a number of measures for which we have not yet seen a budget, such as measures to promote childcare services, to strengthen programmes of positive parenthood, child health, conflict prevention or family mediation. That is true, without concrete commitments, measurable objectives, to which we have nothing but mistrust. In the fourth you speak of progressive universality, but when you enter the content we realize that it is no longer universality that is being pursued, but partial measures against child poverty, as if there were, Mrs Artolazabal, poor children or children in wealthy families. But it is also that we find that the measures set out in the commitments are reduced to none. We understand, because we wanted to be empathetic and open-minded, that in this respect it is the country's commitment to increase second-creature aid by EUR 400 a year. We are not going to criticize it, we are just going to say that it does not solve or provide real solutions again, and it is a partial measure for a pact that only serves a small part of the situation that we have to deal with. Another principle tells us about the importance of social capital, co-education and non-formal education, which translates into a commitment that aims to reorient educational policies and deepen the construction of an inclusive and co-educational school system. It is a necessary compromise, but it will take the wind if there is no economic investment consistent with the importance of the bet. The Education Plan, which they so much mention and boast, has, Mrs Artolazabal, 100,000 euros allocated. How do you plan to change the school model, in your own words, with this economic investment? If we do not invest in improving the education system, we will not be able to deepen the improvement that is being pursued. This principle also interferes with the eighth commitment to improve the governance of family and child policies by developing – and I quote again – "a real socio-educational space". What do you mean by that? Why is it virtual today? Or that it's just a statement of intent today? We know the essential work that many people are doing, primarily in the third sector, and, we take care of our words, because language is not harmless. What is virtual, in any case, will be the political will behind this principle. The socio-educational work, which, in extreme precariousness and under conditions of saturation, is performed by those who leave their skin in this work with girls, boys and their families, is impeccable. The following principle tells us about girls and boys as subjects of law. We see it again as an empty beginning, we cannot see it any other way. Let us hope to go wrong, because if the basis is to act as Lanbide has done since, in 2015, it was urged by Ararteko to incorporate the principle of the best interests of the child, we make it clear. Lanbide – I remember for those who don't know – responded to this recommendation – textually: "the application of this principle is sectoral, and this is only applicable in the field of children, paternal and filial relations, divorce situations, separation, adoption procedure, guardianship and care in similar situations". The thing about eating and having a roof to sleep, it's not relevant. In this bet, by incorporating girls, boys and adolescents, is this making them subjects of law? It's not serious, it's not worth being, as the saying goes, "to God praying and with the bouquet giving." If we want to see children and adolescents as subjects of law, we have an obligation to start with the basics, and the basics are to understand that with all, absolutely all policies and, as it cannot be otherwise, also those of income guarantees, they are elements that affect children and their correct development, their well-being and, if they are cared for, their vulnerability. And this same story is repeated in the following principle, which tells us about investment in children, a principle that is not recognized in the exercise of everyday policies, as long as it is gnawed with expenditure and only named investment from a business or profitability perspective. And yes, we know the paradigm of social investment or the social state to which they refer in the pact. But should this be the focus that guides the need to invest in the family? Do you think it is ethical to bet on the rights of girls and boys, so that they can be profitable in the future? Do you think it is ethical to bet on family rights to reproduce, in an attempt to sustain voracious development models like the ones we have? Do you consider this to be consistent with ethics? And what does it translate into? Because we remember that the concrete commitments, again, there is not a single word for this investment that they say they are committed to making. In our view, the good intentions pacts are very good, but if there is no concrete commitment, they are a wet paper. And we already know that wet paper is not a solid foundation for nothing or anyone, let alone for building a future. We agree, yes, that it is essential to approach social policies from a preventive perspective, but we insist, as we have been doing since we arrived in this House, that betting on a preventive policy requires economic investment, it requires assessing the impact of government decisions and not avoiding obligations. A question that is again reflected in the principle of the value of early care, but does not mention that there are problems in children and adolescents who, if they do not immediately address themselves, make their lives difficult forever. But there is also not a single concrete commitment in this area. With regard to the principle of equal opportunities and social mobility, you speak of reducing the intergenerational transmission of poverty, nor of translating it into any concrete compromise. There is talk of neutralizing differences and ensuring a basic level of equal opportunities. How's it going, ladies and gentlemen? Is there a basic level of equality and then an advanced level? Who has the right to each? Don't you think that's funny? We, of course, have been greatly drawn to our attention. At this point too, we continue without any concrete measures or commitments. For us, the redistribution of wealth is a fundamental element in the set of issues that make it possible or impossible to exercise free of autonomous projects, of family projects. Without a secure basis for them, without clear studies, which are indispensable, and do not exist, without a serious bet and beyond good intentions, we insist, we are not going anywhere. We didn't transform or make it possible. We just keep putting on patches. To conclude this part, the last two principles: institutional and multidimensional nature of the pact and the commitment to invest in families and children. If you really believe, like us, that this pact must be as plural as possible to be shared, you should have tried to make an effort to let us be part of other political groups and options before closing it and agreeing, with a monochrome version of what family policies should be. But not only have they left out other parties, they have left out too, and as I said at the beginning, women, and not only seen the image of the firm. They have left out associations or movements that, we are sure, would have a lot to say, and if they really want to have the multiple dimensions, why is Mr Azpiazu not present in this? Why isn't Mrs. San Jose here today? Why isn't Mrs. Tapia here? Well, we want to remember, in case you consider that we are dismembered, that already in March 2016 you announced for the first time a family investment, you announced an expenditure of 200 million per year, which we have not seen transferred to the budgets, neither in 2017 nor in 2018. Could you clarify what happened to this? Moreover, when we talk about family investment, we talk about economic investment as well, not only, but also. The budget of the Directorate for Family Policy and Diversity is €73 million, which accounts for 0.6 per cent of the total government budget. Is this a priority bet? Because we certainly don't think so. Having said that, from Elkarrekin We can make proposals that encourage the Government to review the course of this pact, strategy and plan IV that we understand are in draft, because correcting is wise. And apart from this proposal that we will then disaggregate more calmly, we propose that this monograph be the starting point for a debate, a broad and shared reflection with as many actors as possible. We propose that other elements be introduced for the construction of a pact that is truly representative of the reality of all Basques and Basques, of all the neighbours and neighbours, a citizenship that in this month of March, once again, has shown us on two very consecutive occasions that it is solidarity, that it mobilizes massively, that it is proactive and that it wants a more just, more equal and more involved society. As I said, a deep, long gaze, a gaze that considers the whole population. Just for the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The principles which tend to the use of the Jeltist Party of Family and Childhood, are the Conventions of the Rights of the United Nations; because the highest interest of the minor is established as the fundamental guide of public policys, and it is confirmed by them as a citizen of the whole right. It concludes responsibility and challenge at the same time: how to give the preference to childhood, by producing its useful environments to its proper development, by securing its protection, and by the default investment to be made in childhood. Our efforts do not repeat the disadvantages between generations, that the investment of Europe and Eucharadia is absolutely essential to the future, and also that direct contribution to Europe 2020, to the use of an intelligent and integrated growth, and that it will be beneficial to it in the long run of our childhood, economic, and society. To invest in childhood is essential to the present and the tolerable development of the future. It's fair, profitable, and profitable to everyone, to encourage economic and social development, to increase productive product, and to guarantee a tolerable growth. We believe that early interventions and prevention are indispensable for the more efficient and efficient policy of the family. In the first years of life we must defend ourselves from correcting disadvantages, because it is important to double our efforts in the struggle against poverty and in general against social resistance. We believe that the most effective prevention is acquired by integrated strategy, by mutual assistance, by association with children of quality, health, housing, and social services, and so the children may use their full powers and have less weakness. At the same time, in our opinion, the family context plays more and more important roles in determining the life of young men. The economy, relations, culture, and educational pains which parents leave to their children, are more and more important to the poorer and less remunerated hands. We have a need to promote a member of society. If so, then, the two parents are equally engaged in producing or acting in the same manner, and also in respect of reproduction or care, based on the model of the receiver and the double watcher. In our opinion, we have one of the most helpful policies for birth, and one of the most effective methods against childfulness. Family structures, family life routes, and the deep process of change in which the family relations are suffering. Thus we are in favour of the development of an integral strategy of family and childhood in the Eural Party, by which all family structures will be in the same degree as the consideration and protection of social families, which, in their family and childhood, reduces the social differences connected with family structure, and in spite of the chance of all children, and the kind of families which depend on their welfare. We also observe the importance of social capital and social communion. That's why we believe that we need to highlight the need to strengthen the social network by consistent integration with the families in the communal structures. In this context, we're in favor of answering social problems, and we're in favor of implementing services to all children and equipment that have the character of social training. In the same way, we have to develop the forms of education based on cooperation. The measures which we plan from our group have a degree of character, and influence upon the several parts of public politics; the principal support of education, equality, housing, money-principles, cultures, and health policies. On account of the archification of the jurisdictions of the Euscal Autonomy, it must necessarily be a strategy of the constitution of institutions, and thus, as the Euscal treaty for Family and Childhood began, based on a global agreement between Government, Aldus, and municipal cities, it will not be successful. Family policy. Beyond the complication between the organizations and the organizations of these engagements, we consider the intervention of all other social agencies as essential, and especially of those who are involved in determining their mutual intercourse. The complication of unions and corporations is inevitable, and especially when a member of society is created, in order to protect the more and more adapted families of their children, and to preserve their habits and structure. Why and why a new family and a new investment strategy? The cultivation of any political system, directed to children and families, the improvement of families, must begin with the examination of the obstacles or restrictions which make men attempt to reduce the number of their children to the number of their families, or the prevention of the social distribution of the most vulnerable families, from the discovery of their being threatened by a financial crisis. Beyond the co-unction of this state, the policy to be executed must also proceed from the necessity of generating a series of public policies which answer to two events more structurally. These two facts are as follows: One. On the one hand, to increase the economic difficulties of families with children, which increases one of the indicators to the poverty of children, and the increasing difficulty of breaking the announcement between the generations of differences, which compromises the principle of inequality of choice. And two. The duration of the difficulties which Pertsion makes in the education of their family, and renders the number of children which they desire to have. It's located in the necessity of getting ahead in the best-made improvements to protect the Basque family and converting all the social policies into the paradigma of social investment. With these concerns, and beginning with this monographic discussion, we receive proposals in the family and childhood of an investment strategy which will attempt to give an answer to the subject mentioned. It is evident that there are different problems, which give only one part to answer the same questions, and that each of them needs a different approach. We, on the other hand, the application of principles and ends, which have a connection between both these events, and which includes them (as the equality of genera, man and woman-relationship in the seed of children, family and labour, the extent of economic preparations for their children, a wager of inclusive and cohesion, of the support of social equipment in common nature, and also of the support of the father-in-laws, so far as we think the programs may be included in both respects, we make this answer by the same policies. But we're in trouble, and we admit it without any self-portrait. In order to enter into a new phase of the family and the politics of childhood, we have identified some elements which are clearly conditioned by the cultivation of the resolutions which we now bring to you, by families, and within them by the many distinct conditions of families with children. On the one hand, the poverty and poverty of families with children and children, and, on the other hand, the greater and greater weight of the family-feeding process and diversity of social motion. Both of them are modology demographics and the traditional descent of the birth rate produced by the hope of life. To the intelligible delay of birth, which has been rendered more fertility by the decay of others, the new is added to it by the class which has most income. These facts are added to the determination of men and women as well as to the educational capacity of their parents, so far as their resolutions appear, that two additional elements are indispensable: On the one hand, as far as this inquiry is concerned, the preservation of the genus, and, more particularly, the difficulty in the association of family and laboring life, which most of the guard's habits are more apt to make women depend on themselves. On the other hand, the duration of the difficulties of young men to their own execution, and the increase of them. As to the right of young men in the form of a project of autonomous life, beyond what it supposes, these affairs of separation have a direct relation to the delay of their children, or to the number of children they choose to have, when they cannot have the right of all persons. And what is the role of public policy in all this? As noted above, our vision in this area is based on concern about the growth of inequalities in childhood and the economic difficulties of families with children, as well as on the desire to remove obstacles that make it difficult for people to start their family projects and to have the desired number of children. With regard to the prevention of child poverty, the promotion of social mobility and the improvement of the economic well-being of families with children, it is obvious that they can be addressed in part at least through public policies supporting families and children themselves. A wide range of analyses of the incidence and characteristics of child poverty in developed countries show that, apart from the socio-demographic factors that may exist, there is a close link between this phenomenon and the design of public social policies. There is a great consensus in recognizing the essential role that social policies play in the prevention and containment of child poverty, and in promoting policies that promote equal opportunities for all families. In that connection, the relationship between public social spending on children and families and the reduction of child poverty seemed clear, and countries with social protection models more or less geared towards the protection of children and families could be referred to. There is, however, no direct relationship between public policies and increased birth rate. The various analyses that have been carried out do not find a clear link between the various public policies carried out – economic benefits, conciliation measures, child care... – and birth rates; and it is possible to think that there are other social conditions – economic perspectives, the configuration of labour relations, gender equality patterns, etc. – that influence the birth rates of each country, in addition to the long-term demographic conditions themselves, the increase in the length of life and the consequent historical decline in fertility. Low birth does not have a single cause and therefore there is no magic formula to solve it. However, as I have already pointed out, there are birth-related reasons which justify a concern on the part of public administrations and require action in this regard. It should be reiterated in this regard that public intervention in this area should not focus on the social consequences of birth, but on the rights and well-being of people. Current birth levels do not only respond to individual decisions or a change in values over previous periods, but also to a social environment that does not facilitate or even hinder people from having the offspring they would like. It has already been pointed out, in this regard, that part of the low birth rate in our country can be attributed to a social structure that hinders the realization of people's desires for their offspring. In this case, the action on this anti-natal environment would be an attempt to guarantee the well-being and reproductive rights of generations of reproductive age. It is therefore key that public policies contribute to the creation of a social, cultural and labour context that fosters the decision to have children or the decision to have all the children that are desired, taking into account the change experienced in the respective roles of family members and, in particular, those of women, and accepting that the desired fertility in the more advanced societies is maintained around the two children, and will probably never again rise to the levels that characterized our past. This is why, in our view, one of the keys to public policies to be carried out is the European institutions' commitment to investment (preparation before having to repair) in children, which is reflected in: One. Avoiding the transmission of disadvantages between generations, which is a crucial investment for the future of Europe and, of course, of Euskadi, and has long-term benefits for children, the economy and society as a whole. Two. Early intervention and prevention are essential for the development of more effective and efficient policies. Three. Addressing the disadvantages in the early years of life is an important way to redouble efforts to address poverty and social exclusion in general. In drawing up our motions for resolutions, we have taken into account some of the philosophical approaches or orientations that are to the greatest extent affecting the definition of policies for families and children in Europe, contained in the Basque Pact for Families and Children, with which we share the principles, analysis, evaluation, as well as the proposal for content and commitments. The approaches on which this strategy leading such a Basque compact for children is most clearly based are as follows: One. The paradigm of social investment. In recent years, an approach has been developed mainly in Europe which undoubtedly implies a paradigm shift in the definition of social welfare policies and which brings with it a fundamental change in the role of family support policies, giving them new or greater centrality in all social protection policies. This new paradigm – the main feature of which is the shift of emphasis from policies aimed at repairing to those aimed at preparation – is a new way of conceiving public intervention in relation to children, insofar as the well-being and optimal cognitive and emotional development of boys and girls is seen as an essential factor in the long-term social cohesion of society as a whole. From this point of view, investment in children, the development of policies to support families, the provision of quality child care and, by extension, the fight against child poverty are the basic pillars of the so-called social investment model. Two. Gender perspective and co-responsible social organization. The reasons for the fall in birth are structural, not cyclical, and are closely linked to the sexual division of labour, gender roles and conciliation. From that point of view, it may be thought that as long as the care of boys and girls continues to fall mostly on women, women who have received an education and have personal and work expectations that are not limited to motherhood, fertility rates will continue to be low. On the basis of this finding, the adoption of a gender perspective, the search for measures to promote the equality of women and men, and the co-responsibility of men and women in the care work, within the framework of a co-responsible social organization, are some of the elements that have been taken into account in the elaboration of this strategy, which is based on a model of dual caregiver/caregiver and dual caregiver/recipient of income, in which both spouses participate equally in the work, productive and reproductive or care tasks. In this regard, and from the point of view of the identification of practices and experiences of interest, it is essential to refer to the extension of parental and male care permits, and in general to the increasing extension of equal and non-transferable permits for both parents. Three. The intervention or importance of the first years of life. Increasingly numerous and conclusive are the studies that link the first years of life and early intervention with the development potential throughout life, under a common paradigm that can be encompassed in the generic concept of the "fundamental years", in the sense that this is the phase in which the foundations of the entire later life path are placed. Various scientific disciplines have shown that the first 1,000 days of life are critical for learning, both cognitively and non-cognitively, and that socio-educational interventions are either cost-effective or cost-effective as soon as they develop. Access for children to high-quality child education centres should therefore be part of a truly effective policy for equal opportunities, bearing in mind, as has just been pointed out, that the basics of learning, as well as the main origin of inequalities, go back to the preschool period. All this must not, however, make us forget the importance of educational intervention in the later stages of education and the need to intervene at all stages of people's life. Four. Policies to support parenthood, the promotion of social capital and co-education. Reference should also be made to the growing importance given throughout Europe to support programmes for parents and to the approach of positive parenthood, mainly for two reasons. On the one hand, because it corresponds to some of the elements previously mentioned, such as social investment in childhood or the importance of parenting relationships and the intra-family transmission of human capital. On the other hand, because it shows that there is an arsenal of family policies that goes beyond those that are usually analyzed (economic services, childcare services, measures for work reconciliation...) and that are related to the socio-educational intervention and training of parents. This approach intersects with various traditions of analysis on the beneficial effects of social capital and is based on the premise that raising and educating is a collective responsibility, in which not only families and educational agents, but the whole community, must be involved. From this point of view, this strategy is based on the premise that boys and girls are exposed and at lower risk if there are community structures that care for them, their families are solidly linked to their environments and are assisted by a wide array of local actors when they experience needs. In this context, this strategy calls for community-based responses to social problems and the development of socio-educational services and equipment for the entire child population, which take particular account of the needs of children with the greatest disadvantage. In the face of this, we propose principles and axes of intervention: Children as subjects of rights and the best interests of the child, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Investment in childhood. Investing in childhood is fair, profitable and benefits everyone. Investment in children as a tool for improving the well-being of society as a whole. Equal opportunities and social mobility. Reduce the burden of social inheritance on the present and future well-being of children. Co-responsibility and gender equality. Support for the dual-income and dual-care family model as the best tool for poverty prevention and birth promotion. Recognition and support for family diversity. The same degree of recognition and social protection for all boys and girls, regardless of the type of family they live in. Combined use of direct care services and comprehensive economic benefits. Progressive universality. Services for all children, compatible with the focus of expenditure and intervention in people and families with greater needs. The importance of social capital and co-education. Emphasis on the need to strengthen the social fabric, the development of socio-educational services and equipment for the entire child population and the development of educational formulas based on co-education. An inter-agency and multidimensional character (education, equality, housing, income guarantee, culture and health policies). And linking public and private agents. In the presence of all this, our proposals are derived from the Euscala treaty for family and childhood, and we agree with the decalogy of the commitments that appear there. One. The minimum economic resources are guaranteed to every family with children, and to prevent child generation, to respect family skills. Two. It is easy for parents to have as much time as is necessary for their children, and to encourage the social disposition of the social economy to resist them. Three. To assist autonomous projects of youth and life, thus facilitates the production of new family units, and in cases which they wish to be offspring. Four. A positive parenthood, a child's health, a reminder of programmes for the preventive prevention, in order to strengthen parent and education in this way, encouraging healthy habits, and facilitates the repairs which may occur in families. Five. To ease all children from receiving access to attention services, reasonable prices, and quality. Six. The educational policy reorganizes, and the construction of an inclusive and coductable school system, which supports equity, and has balanced the difficulties of students at a social and economic disadvantage. Seven. A wider offer of social education, sports, culture, and entertainment, to all children and young men in equal possibilities. Eight. To improve the government of families and of childhood, and to improve the growth of a real centre in social education. Nine. An engagement to co-workership between different institutions and disciplines. For a multi-dimensional character of these subjects affects a variety of public policies: genus view, language, equality, health, housing, social services, culture, employment, etc. And ten. To assess private operators connected to this subject, especially those who are directly involved in working relations (e.g. unions and corporations), because this connection is necessary between public and private agents. And according to these, they're going and they're going to go with our prospects of resolution we're going to present today. What is the meaning and strategy of this? Ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, we can face the greatest challenge we've been in for a long time, and we really ought to be in favor of the public policies we all need. We're standing in front of a genius project, Eusk0Y, with its various departments, not just the project that the town has in them, but also the town. So, social operatings, unions and corporations, and third social sector. But especially this day, I would like to speak of this parliament, you, all of us, representatives of this people. Even a problem which they aim at is not easy to solve, and the solution of these matters depends on the more social and cultural changes which may, in some measure, take place outside the influence of public politics. Hence the strategy is to take long-term measures, which ought to be maintained during time by determining and modulating the plan of the family to begin. From this point of view, we ought to regard the fundamental elements of this strategy as strategic, and consequently as permanent and applicable to all public policy. Helburutzat behar genuke strategy partakatu eta epe lukeko bat ezartzea, UNICEFek dion bezala, haur-poverzia ratak murriztu eta haur guztien berdintasuna bermatzeko, "A strong social and political consensus is needed to allow a new approach more focused on the well-being of people and at the same time more strategic towards children. A pact involving social actors in a broad sense: boys and girls, families, businesses, trade unions, public administrations, social organizations and political parties. A pact with and for boys and girls with a consensual vision in the medium and long term that, taking into account the current emergencies, will also bet on social investment in children as one of the envyes that will allow the real and positive transformation of our country and its citizens in an increasingly complex and variable environment." I said in my last intervention that we wanted to close the earlier phase by agreement, and so would we begin this new phase. We await your contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u12	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. After that, Mrs. Artolallun, who's a Lobster, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u13	The President, the chairman, the congressman, all good days. On the 18th of January, the Basque Institutions made a strong commitment to assist the Basque family and children. The principal object of the agreement which was concluded is to remove the difficulties which men have in order to begin their family project, and to have as many children as they please. And also to anticipate the difficulties of the increase of the differences in childhood, and of families with children. Today, on March 21st, the Basque Parliament will discuss and agree the measures to assist the families in order to influence our democratic tendencies as advanced countries. I know that we are all concerned about this subject, and I believe the agreement of the discussion today, and the consequence of it, will serve us to determine and establish the policy of the family. 4. To aid families and children by these. The measures that will be taken in the plan will be completed and consolidated. The definition of the fourth support plan for families and children is based and will be based, in addition to the ideas put forward today in this plenary, on the background document of the Basque Strategy for Investment in Families and Children. That document began to be drafted in the past legislature. It has been attended by individuals related to the administration, third sector entities and also academic experts. This background document was also worked out and presented at the Basque Family Council, where there are representatives of public administrations, the third social sector, the trade union sector and the business world. From the synthesis of this basic document was born the Basque Pact of Support for Families and Children, signed a few weeks ago by Eudel, outlaws and Basque Government, and which also obtained unanimous support from the Basque Family Council. The signing of the Basque Pact for Families and Children, following the elaboration of the Basque Strategy for Investment in Families and Children shared with administrations and entities of the third sector working in the field of family and children, is a second milestone in this whole process. This process will culminate in the implementation of the Fourth Support Plan for Families and Children, which will include concrete measures – yes – and which we plan to conclude shortly. Thanks to the agreements that will be taken today, the family agreement will be strengthened. For as it is necessary that the alliance should be carried before the treaty, this share of the work is of no importance. These institutions and entities, which we have signed the Euscal treaty for the family and children, may, in our present context, be said to have some obstacles. Both the pact signed by the institutions and the IV plan seek to articulate a coordinated package of policies that responds to two phenomena that have a structural character: the low birth rates and, above all, the persistence of the obstacles that make it difficult for people to start their family project and have the desired number of children. Secondly, the greater economic difficulties of families with children – one of whose main factors is the growth of child poverty – and the growing difficulties in breaking the intergenerational transmission of inequalities, which question the principle of equal opportunities. The agreements we can make today will determine the course we have to take to support the families. We can face the hits I've mentioned with this. We don't start from scratch. Since 2008, we have had a Family Support Act that sets out the basic principles that we must follow in defining family support measures and we have the experience of the three previous plans. We work on solid pillars that mark our playing field. Thus, according to Law 13/2008 of 12 December 2008 on Family Support, the family policy of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is based on the following fundamental values: Respect for freedom of decision and choice on the family project. Respect for the rights of all family members, regardless of age and degree of autonomy. Respect for family diversity and equal treatment for different types of families. Equal opportunities for women and men and co-responsibility of both partners. Recognition of the role of the family as the main agent of intergenerational and intragenerational solidarity. Recognition and respect of the role of the family as a transmitter of the values of freedom, solidarity, respect, tolerance and equality, plurality, participation and coexistence, and, in general, the democratic principles of social coexistence. Solidarity with families in situations of special vulnerability or risk of social exclusion. And, also, autonomy of its components in order to its full personal development within the family sphere. Euskakia, like other European countries, challenges the development of social and demography politics which answers to the age of the population and the need to promote the increase of their birth. In this regard, in addition to care policies for the elderly, support policies for families and children are two fundamental pillars of social policies. On the basis of this, we recognize the importance of families as cores of human relationship and social, affective and community education. We bet on policies that make it easier for people who already have family responsibilities, and those who want to make up a family, to carry out their vital project in the best possible conditions, working to overcome the difficulties that can prevent it. Targets. 4. To assist the family and children by the Euscal treaty, and the family and children, to assist them in assisting them. By this plan we seek to obtain the following basic goals: Number one. To give occasion to the propagation of women and men and children, and to remove or reduce the difficulties they have in order to begin their family project and to have the number of children they want. Number two. To invest in children who are protected by the institutions of Europe, and to arrange the equality of opportunity for all children and teenagers. Third. To prevent the transmission of inequality between generations and to reduce the poverty conditions of families with children as much as possible. In order to obtain these designs, the plan will have the following principles: Number one. To confess family skills and help her. Today, the family made up of a married couple with biological sons and daughters is no longer the only family structure in which to raise them. There are couples who have no children and others who adopt them. There are families made up of unmarried couples or same-sex couples. There are single-parent families and reconstructed families. In other words, today's Basque families, as in all the advanced societies in our environment, are more plural, more versatile, more complex and also more fragile. One of the reasons for this greater fragility is that there is an unequal distribution by socioeconomic strata in the different family forms, with a clear association between family structure, inequality of opportunity and social well-being being raised. We recognize the profound process of change in which family structures, family life paths and inter-family relations are immersed. We believe that all family structures have the same degree of recognition and social protection. As the International Day against Racial Discrimination today, I make a special mention of this principle that drives support for and recognition of family diversity: Support for and recognition of Basque families of foreign origin, to which they are added a step in the way they have to go. We seek that these families and these children may have the same dreams and opportunities as the rest. Number two. Repudiation and diversity of genera to increase the fertility of conditions. Equality between women and men and co-responsibility in upbringing are the best policy for the promotion of birth. The available scientific evidence shows that as long as the care of children continues to fall mostly on women (women who have received an education and have personal and work expectations that are not limited to motherhood), fertility rates will remain low. From that point of view, it is essential to move towards a responsible social organization, in line with what has been said in successive equality plans for women and men developed in our Community. In this regard, and from the point of view of the identification of practices and experiences of interest, it is essential to refer to the extension of parental (male) care leave and, in general, to the increasing extension of equal and non-transferable leave for both parents. In the fourth plan we will promote the amendment of Decree 177/2010 of 29 June 2010 on aid for the reconciliation of family and working life, in order to introduce gradually an economic benefit for the coverage of paternity surpluses for a period of 12 weeks in the 12 months following birth, which does not coincide in time with the mother's permission, and with an amount equivalent to 100 % of the contribution base. This is an alternative to the reduced state paternity permits and is in addition to the one already announced by the Basque Government for the civil service. This measure, together with the impetus of programmes aimed at working on attachment, positive parenthood and resilience, will require further parallel changes in the system of aid for reconciling family and work life, in order to avoid as far as possible the exit of women from the world of work, a situation which is currently taking place, which means increasing gender inequality and the wage gap. Having more committed parents in care tasks will mean winning a battle against the pay gap and taking a step forward in the race to overcome inequalities. Similarly, labour legislation that streamlines working hours and guarantees existing rights – today conditioned by the existence of a work environment and comprehensive work leadership – would have a fundamental influence in this regard. The so-called wage gap must also be eliminated, with the aim of enabling women to develop their professional career on an equal footing and to participate fully in an equal social situation for all. This same year we are already developing a pilot conciliation plan in 30 Basque companies. Third. Computing direct attention services and economic preparations. While the correlation between high expenditure on family benefits and support to the family and comparatively high fertility rates is demonstrated, a direct causal relationship between the provision of financial benefits to families with daughters and children and the increase in birth rates cannot be established. In fact, it may be thought that what people need, rather than more money, is to be able to realize their desire to have children, and in order to guarantee their well-being, time is essential – a structuring of social hours according to their needs – and adequate support services. Since that finding, emphasis should be placed on improving social, educational, health and childcare services, as well as childcare benefits in the context of a co-responsible conciliation. At the same time, the role that economic benefits play in reducing child poverty and, in general, in compensation for the costs of raising children should also be recognised, and measures aimed at extending and universalising these benefits should therefore be collected. To this end, we will have to reflect, together with the outside parliaments, on whether the mixed form of direct aid and tax deductions is the most appropriate for the achievement of the proposed purpose or whether, on the contrary, there are other formulas which contribute more harmoniously to the achievement of the objectives of the new plan. Until the formation of that working group and decision-making by it, we will continue to focus on improving economic benefits for families with children. In fact, the amendment of Decree 30/2015 of 17 May 2015 on financial aid and support for families with dependent children is under way in order to extend the assistance to be received by the second child from two to three years. Fourth. Generality: the services and preparations of all families, and the attention of those which are most needed. The most successful strategies to address child poverty have proven to be those based on policies aimed at improving the well-being of all girls and boys, while taking into account, at the same time, those children in particularly vulnerable situations. Indeed, many studies have shown that one of the bases for the success of family support models is its universal character. This universality is not constrained by a progressive or focused approach that grants higher amounts and stronger support to families with lower incomes or who face greater difficulties. For this reason, we have already proposed in the reform of Law 18/2008, for the guarantee of income and social inclusion, measures to improve the treatment given to family units with dependent children within the framework of the AES and the RGI. These include the reduction of the minimum registration period to two years in the case of families with dependent minors for the perception of GIR; the increase of the existing supplement for single-parent families in the framework of guarantee income; and the establishment of a supplement in the framework of guarantee income in the case of persons who are victims of family violence. Fifth grade. The importance of social capitalism, of education and of non- formal education. The approach of strengthening the social fabric, solidly integrating families into community structures and appealing to them to alleviate the deficits and dysfunctions that may appear in their daily lives, intersects with various traditions of analysis on the beneficial effects of social capital. It is also based on the premise that raising and educating is a collective responsibility, in which not only families and educational agents, but the whole community, must be involved. Girls and boys are at less risk if there are community structures that care for them, their families are firmly linked to their environments and are assisted by a broad network of local actors when they experience needs. We call for community responses to social problems, the development of socio-educational services and equipment for the entire child population, and the development of educational formulas based on co-education. In this context, it is necessary to intensify and strengthen all policies for children and young people that act not only in terms of protection, but also on the basis of prevention and promotion, from a conception of socio-educational intervention based on non-formal education and access to sport, culture and leisure and leisure activities. The 6th one. Children subject of rights. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child provides the best interests of the child as a basic guide to public policies on family and children. The Convention calls upon States to ensure the child the protection and care necessary for his or her well-being, taking into account the rights and duties of his or her parents. In addition, it requires States to implement the economic, social and cultural rights of girls and boys to the maximum of their available resources, to ensure their survival and development, or to assist parents in promoting development and an adequate standard of living for children. The implementation of the Convention necessarily implies making girls and boys entitled to rights. To this end, and with the aim of disseminating good practices, evaluating interventions and maintaining a system of indicators related to child and family well-being to identify needs and reorienting public policies from evidence-based practice, we will strengthen the Family Observatory and the Observatory for Children and Adolescents, with the following actions: creation of a scientific advisory committee, online publication of a database of indicators on the situation of families and children, specific research and study programme, and identification and dissemination of good practices. Seventh. To invest in children. A new constellation of arguments in favour of proactive public investment for children is being articulated in recent years. These new concepts understand that investing in childhood means investing in the future of our society. In this new paradigm of social policy, public spending on children no longer represents a social cost, but is the main focus of future-oriented productive social investment. Appreciated by extensive social research, this new paradigm calls for intensified efforts to combat child poverty, support families in difficulty in balancing their dedication to work and family responsibilities, or encourage the participation in preschool education of children from families with low cultural and educational resources. Investing in childhood is fair, profitable, benefits everyone and everyone, and is a fundamental element for the transformation of societies. The European Commission's recommendation shows that investing in the family is breaking the cycle of disadvantages. Brussels recognises that in the vast majority of EU countries, the child population is at greater risk of poverty or social exclusion than the general population, and Euskadi is no stranger to this. Furthermore, the Commission considers that girls and boys who grow up in poverty or social exclusion are less likely than their better-off peers to have good school performance, enjoy good health and realize their full potential in later stages of their lives. Most effective prevention is achieved through integrated strategies that combine assistance to parents with adequate income support and access to essential services for the future of boys and girls. These services are those related to quality preschool education, health, housing and social services, as well as opportunities to participate and assert their rights, which helps children to realize their full potential and makes them less vulnerable. Eighth. Early attention: It's the importance of the first 1,000 days of my life. Increasingly numerous and conclusive are the studies that associate the first years of life and early intervention with the development potential throughout their life. Research in different disciplinary areas positively links investment in early childhood with greater participation of women in the labour market, higher fertility rates, improved equal opportunities for girls and boys from different socio-economic backgrounds, and better alignment with the needs of the so-called knowledge society. In this regard, a great deal of work points out that the optimal time for productive intervention is when girls and boys are very young. A broad evidence that educational interventions are all the more profitable or effective as soon as they develop. To this end, we will deepen educational policies that advance in an inclusive and co-educating school system, able to guarantee equity and to compensate for the difficulties of students in a situation of social and economic disadvantage. The supply of haurreskolas is essential in this task. In fact, in order to promote the acquisition of parental skills for the upbringing, bonding and secure attachment, and to offer families support in difficult situations, in addition to other positive parenting programs, within the framework of the Basque Council for Social Care, we will promote a pilot program to support young pregnant mothers, aimed at first mothers under 25 years of age with risk factors (monoparenthood, risk of social exclusion or under education). The 9th one. The equality of choice and social limits. The measures to be defined in the Fourth Plan of Support for Families and Children aim to promote social mobility and reduce intergenerational transmission of inequality. From the idea that the economic crisis has increased inequalities and the change of productive model, reducing equal opportunities and especially harming those children who have not been able to receive from their parents sufficient financial, cultural or relational capital, this pact seeks to develop educational, cultural and income-guarantee policies. This will allow for neutralizing differences and ensuring a basic level of equal opportunities for all, regardless of their economic, cultural or educational heritage, and that of their families of origin. Number ten. Between organizations and multi-dimensional character. The commitments and lines of action set out in the pact, which will be defined in the Fourth Plan, are multidimensional in nature and affect various areas of public policy. Similarly, given the competence of the Community, this is an inter-institutional area, supported by the Basque municipalities, the outlaws and the various departments within the Basque Government which have competence in the fields of education, equality, health, housing, social services, culture, employment and income assurance. Eleven. The connection of public and private agents. In order to build a model of social protection and social relations more oriented towards families and children, the involvement of all social actors and, in particular, those directly involved in the determination of labour relations, such as trade unions and employers' associations, is essential. The drive and demand of third-sector entities working in the areas of children, the family and equality, disability or social exclusion is also essential. All this has justified the unanimous signing of the Covenant for Families and Children by all the entities that currently form the Basque Family Council. However, there are birth-related reasons that justify a concern on the part of public administrations and require action in this regard. In this regard, it should be reiterated that public intervention in this area should not focus on the social consequences of birth, but on the rights and well-being of people. Current birth levels respond not only to individual decisions or a change in values over previous periods, but also to a social environment that does not facilitate or even hinder people from having the offspring they would like. It has already been pointed out in this regard that, in part, low Basque birth can be attributed to a social structure that hinders the materialization of people's desires regarding their offspring. In this case, action on this anti-natal environment would be an attempt to guarantee the reproductive well-being and rights of generations of reproductive age. Public policies need to contribute to the creation of a social, cultural and labour context conducive to the decision to have offspring and the descendants they want. And in this regard, we will promote the emancipation of young people and the formation of new families, facilitating initial work experiences to people with little or no previous work experience. For this, we have initiatives such as the Lehen Aukera programme, Global Training fellowships or internationalization fellowships. But we also want to promote the emancipation of our young people by facilitating access to housing, preferably for rent, establishing a preferential reserve of shelter for young people. At the same time, new formulas and alternative measures for young people will be developed: endowment accommodation, shared floors, programmes that promote intergenerational coexistence initiatives. Admissions of those who have signed the treaty to help their families and children. From these principles we have also defined engagements which have been made by entities and institutions which have signed a treaty. And as you have already mentioned, there are 10 lines of action, which are included in the pact, which I am not going to repeat again. We've been developing family policy for many years and now for families and children. We're getting ready for the help plan, and it'll be published in the spring. That means there's been three other plans ahead. When from the department we have attended the inter-autonomous meeting convened by the Commissioner of the Government of the State for the demographic challenge, we note that there are autonomous communities of the State that speak proudly of their first family plan, others do not even have it, and we are already going for the fourth. And these plans have had definite actions. It is evidently the autonomy which tends the most closely to the aid of families in the Eukadin States to the aid of these actions which have hitherto been performed. Besides, if they assist their families with children, they are the only aids of subjective and universal right in the State. Despite the efforts that the institutions make, our birth rates are the lowest in the state, which means that a bet on financial support for families with children is not enough for our citizenship to have the children it wants. Apart from this financial assistance to families with children, the Basque Government has been developing policies that work on positive parenting, family mediation and co-responsible conciliation (and that in the next IV Plan will be strengthened). Concluyo. We want to be influenced by a new family plan, by proactive policies for families and children, and by positive policies. This new plan, this young man, must affect all the policies that give him access to a home and a quality employment. That will ease the adult process and the transition. We want to continue to bet on positive parenting policies. It is a means of transcending the differences which may occur in the pair and in its surroundings. There is a need for a commitment to insist on the implementation of co-responsible conciliation policies, since any policy that wants to be effective in this area must go hand in hand with creating conditions that favour equal opportunities for men and women, overcoming gender inequality, facilitating women's access to paid and quality employment, reducing the wage gap and eliminating the current one. At this point, we will insist on the importance of introducing conciliation measures in companies. IV. The plan will continue to wager the support of families with children, the support of families, or the assistance of their children, or the assistance of their unions for the birth of their children. And thus it is confirmed by a decree already in progress. Through this decree, the support for the second son and daughter will increase, and that support will increase 50 percent for the second son or her daughter. The commitment to this government to its families is firm. Hence it is that the autonomy community which invests most in social affairs, and the community which invests them in children's territory. Public expenditure on families in the different institutions in Euskadi has increased from 0.22% of GDP in 1995 to 0.71% at present, according to the evaluation report of the last Family Plan in the Basque Autonomous Community. Euskadi, with €63.5 million, is the state community that invests most in reconciliation and support for families with children. It is the only autonomous community that grants birth and adoption aid with criteria of universality and subjective law. The president of the Basque Committee of Unicef commented in July that "a girl or child born today in Euskadi will be able to grow with a child welfare level higher than the European average". Now is the time for a more ambitious strategy. The main achievement in recent years has been to keep the system in full crisis. This has taken a step forward. We are aware of the challenge that we have as a country and as a Government, and it is time to articulate measures and policies that serve to ensure that Basque families have the desired number of children and that they have a future in line with their expectations and on equal terms. Finally, I would like to highlight some of the measures provided for in the Fourth Plan of Support for Families and Children. Extension of parental (male) care permits and, in general, to the growing extension of equal and non-transferable permits for both parents. We will promote the amendment of Decree 177/2010, on aid for the reconciliation of family and work life, in order to introduce gradually an economic benefit for the coverage of paternity surpluses for a period of twelve weeks in the twelve months following birth, which does not coincide in time with the maternal permit, and with an amount equivalent to 100 % of the contribution base. This is an alternative to the reduced state permits, as I said before, and is in addition to the one already announced by the Basque Government for its officials. We propose a reflection within the framework of the Basque Finance Council, together with the outside parliaments, on whether the current mixed formula of direct aid and tax deductions is the most appropriate for achieving the proposed objective. As I mentioned, until the formation of this group we will continue to influence the improvement of the financial benefits for families with children, and that is why we are in the process of processing and amending Decree 30/2015, in order to extend from two to three annuities the assistance to be received by the second daughter and son. We have already proposed in the reform of Law 18/2008 on Income Guarantee Income, measures to improve the treatment of family units. In order also to disseminate good practices and evaluate interventions and maintain a system of indicators related to child welfare and families, we will strengthen the Family Observatory and the Observatory for Children and Adolescents. We want to encourage the acquisition of parental skills, and for this we will also work on the Basque Council for Social Care, which will boost this pilot program to support young pregnant mothers under 25 years of age. We are working to promote youth emancipation and the formation of new families, facilitating early work experiences with various programs. We also want to promote the emancipation of our young people, facilitating access to housing. We will also develop new formulas and measures targeted at young people, especially for accommodation facilities, shared floors and programmes that drive the intergenerational coexistence initiative. Our families and our children are the basis for the sustainable development and social and solidarity progress Euskadi is making in Europe. Today we will receive motions for resolutions from this Parliament to improve the Fourth Family and Children's Support Plan that we are preparing. That's right, we have to make it clear that our goals won't be achieved in two days. We need to propose realistic, sustainable and feasible actions that need to be progressively implemented. The example we have in our neighbors. France initiated policies aimed at overcoming the demographic challenge at the end of World War II and is now collecting its fruits, with a fertility rate of 1.97 children per woman. We have to walk, that yes, with a firm step, towards that our goal, being aware of where we are and where we want to go. It is an opportunity for everyone to have the paradigm shift that serves as the basis for this new plan addressed with the broadest consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u15	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Thanks to the chief of the departments and the delegates from the rest of the team. So much to say! The debate has lasted so long, and many things have been said. There have been degrees of agreement and differences, and I hope from now on at least in the afternoon we may try this way of agreement. I'll start with Mrs Garrido on order. It is clear that only patches appear in the Poopular Party speech for us. It is evident that we have very different views in such pretty things, in family-politics, and sometimes in other respects. That's clear. But there's something I don't understand from your interference here today. You mentioned the investment made in the family police, you mention the restrictions and you charge the restrictions in this sense, but you've protected the budgets of this government and not just once. I don't know. This makes me think, because for you, as a matter of fact, these policies are primary to you, even in the absence of budgets, they don't seem to have made a special effort. Here is another of your contradictions in your discourses. You, in the last inch of your interference, have made a description of the panorama. You have mentioned so many things in our society that are happening, and I will tell you one thing: you have mentioned it here and again. The family's plan evaluation and the third. In this evaluation of the family plan, in the evaluation of the most beautiful, one thing becomes clear, and one of the principal cares of the Basque families, one of the greatest, or the future of its children. Deutobaro, too, carries with it some sort of uneasiness into the same place, when he says that in our society, one of the greatest questions we see to be the state of the manufactured in the human community. Perhaps the worst is that the euscal society looks upon the future with a resignation, and that it seems to her that these conditions of labor are very limited in the short term, or in the middle term. In this sense, you also have responsibilities, and in certain situations you're talking about, it's the right responsibility. I told you the other day. But if you want to do Christmas politics, withdraw your labor reform. That would be a measure that would certainly facilitate and protect many families – many of them – and also, I am sure, would increase – only happiness – birth. With regard to Mrs Sánchez, I would like to say that I do not understand what you say that we have asked for this monographic debate because the Government has taken the initiative. We have asked for this monographic debate because we have discussed it over and over again before this plan was presented, and we have commented over and over again that the orientation of family policies had to be changed and that we had to look at other directions (you have heard me say it many times); not because I say it, but because the evaluation of the III plan also says so. In that regard, already in that last debate, waiting for Mrs Artolazabal and the Government team to present that pact, we already proposed that monographic debate, but we understood that we were going to participate in it in another way. And given what has been presented, given what has been presented, we have taken the initiative because we understood that it was essential to discuss before what has to come, both with the development of that pact and with the next plan. And you said that the future is closely linked to equality policies. We share it 100%, but I would like you to explain to me how that is done, how that is combined with policies that put birth at the centre, which talk over and over again as a fundamental goal of birth. That's a fundamental problem for me. And you were talking about consensus... You've said so many things, haven't you? He was talking about consensus, about the consensus that revolved around that pact... And I also say this to Mrs Artolazabal: it is true that there is a high consensus, that the agents showed that broad consensus with this plan, but there is also a very broad consensus on something else and it is in telling them that this plan will remain in mere words, this pact will remain in mere words, if no measures are taken and no budgets are provided. Yes, the plan and the pact, because a pact in which no measures are then developed, then you will explain to me what it is for. I'd tell Mr. Faraway that I agree with many things you've said here, but the same thing happens to me, that some things are said to be, that a few big words are said here, but that there are some sort of contradictions. For you and Mrs. Artolaland and you, Mrs. Gloria Sánchez mentioned the need to strengthen these precautions to avoid the poverty of children, the protection of children, the protection of children... I'll tell you what. most of the poor, because they have poor parents, and children are equally subject to rights, their parents, and every grown-up person must be subject to rights. Eta nik uste dut, hor aipatzen zen – you dot Artolazabal andreak aipatu duel – that an investment in the future of children, an investment in child protection, is a guarantee, a bit of a future, which is a good social investment policy, from that paradigm, which is also nothing new but which you now bring on the occasion of this pact and after. For it is that investment in children is as good investment as investment in families, in general. It is that an investment in protection policies is a very good investment, it is an investment in dignity and quality of life. So, it's a very good investment, but, expanding that focus, not only to boys and girls, but also to parents, mothers, people who live with those boys and those girls and others who don't live with boys and girls and who have chosen other ways of life, because it seems that here is going to create a mantra, that "the best protection policies are birth policies." One thing I don't think you can accept. Or is it that in order for us to have a better level of protection we will have to be part of families, of families besides being very classic? Well, no. Well, I think that kind of contradiction has to be clarified, because the pact is heading in another direction. I think it's the people who should be in the center, and when people are in the center because so are the boys and girls, there are all the people who are around those families, those who are out of the families and all sorts of things. Y hay una cosa que no pudo compartir. I can't share it with you because the pact and the plan marks a long-seeing strategy, and the negotiations we've had here these days have clearly shown that we're talking about a long-seeing strategy. So when the fourth plan comes, the process hasn't ended at all. We're in the middle of a social transformation, we're facing a change of paradigma (you've both mentioned it, I think we've almost all mentioned it), and that's what requires the staring strategy, which demands the agreement, and demands precise measures, and asks that it does not require economic resources. I have already explained to you before, but we understand that it is the policies of "good living" that have to be put in the center and that these will bring happiness, good living and, surely, also an increase in birth. It's a very clear subject, isn't it? And you mentioned some very concrete measures, didn't you? Because you were talking about that concrete measures will come with the plan, but you mentioned some. He mentioned the reform of the RGI, he mentioned a series of measures that want to protect those families or put them in the center... However, the data I have given before, that only three of the families who perceive GIR come out of poverty, I think it also leads us to a reflection on the amounts that should be addressed, or even on how these complements are applied, which arises and which you have also mentioned. Collective responsibility in parenting. I cannot agree more, but you do not want to develop one of the tools that we would have for that collective responsibility for upbringing, which is the Social Services Act, and you are making the whirlwinds with the development of that law. Strengthen the Children's Observatory. It is reinforced with resources, because many of the things that you have mentioned here, that want to make the Children's Observatory go forward, are already functions, by decree, of that observatory. And I think, as far as social investment is concerned, your department at least has shown very little of what is done in the family investment, and even less in the nicest members of the family, because in the budgets of 2018, there are still restrictions. And to finish it, I'd say something. "Quue necesitamos un pacto de famens?" Yes, I agree, Mr. Faraway, and besides, as you said, we didn't lie down in this discussion as you told me on the previous day's round, we've brought about the evening and the stuff, we added the table. For us this family pact should be the basis for establishing a social pact, a pact of broad consensus, a kind of network, a network of protection, a network of equality and a network of dignity. It has to be like those lines of life to which climbers rise, which allows them to face the most daring challenges and adventures, for that should be. That should be it. We should create a great social pact around the dignity of people. That is what this country needs; no more birth. Those who have to come, born here...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u16	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u17	... or born there, but those who come can live well, can enjoy, can be happy, and we support them in that sense.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u19	Gracias, thank you, Mr. President. Chief of... Look, Mrs Kortajarena, sometimes when we talk about these issues, about family policies or social issues, we think from the Group of the European People's Party that we are not in such different positions, but then you always, in some way, make some statements that make you think that, in fact, the differences are more than the points in common, and I do not think, honestly, that is so. But look, when you talk to me about aid, and you like it so much to look in the mirror of Europe, aid in Europe is universal, it is universal aid in the vast majority of the countries of the European Union, in that country which, of course, we have as a mirror, and I understand that you too, because your reference, by skipping everything, is always the countries of the European Union. Absolutely universal aids. And the amounts, look!, not only in some of them up to the age of 18, but up to the age of 21. Therefore, it is not a fixation on the issue of aid, it is that if in the advanced countries, which are in line with Spain in family policies, they make family policies and support to families that are producing results, because I sincerely believe, Mrs Kortajarena, that it is a good mirror, in which we have to look, because those policies are producing results. Look at Germany, look at Denmark, look at Sweden, look at France... They are working and, therefore, it is in the mirror in which the People's Party is undoubtedly being watched. Sure, you tell me about the increments. We have increased birth and conciliation aid by some EUR 3 million and the others by EUR 2.5 million. You'll tell me what the solution is. It is just that the countries which have seen the problem of low birth rates as one of the main problems of their societies, have decided on family aid, birth aid and conciliation aid. And we're getting a lot out of it! And we, through concrete proposals that we have been putting on the table for a long time now, and today we again raise this issue, want convergence with Europe, because it seems that it is the line that comes to solve the birth problems that we have in Europe. And it is that we are in one of the societies with the lowest birth rates, not only from Spain, but from the rest of Europe and the rest of the world. And I think that is to make him look at it, and so that this executive, led by Mr Urkullu, would have taken steps and letters on the matter for a long time. Look, we have one of the lowest births, not just from the rest of Spain, but from the world. The young people are leaving us! And, on the other hand, those aids that seem to be useful, and that was understood by the Government in the Third Family Plan (convergence with Europe in aid to solve demographic problems, including the low birth rate we have), so we have not arrived. It is that convergence with Europe was by 2020, and what this government is proposing to us during this parliamentary term is to increase birth aid in the second child. That is, we see no ambition in this Government to face the challenges we face as a society and among them family policies. And we have to say that this government is installed in the absolute self-congratulation on these issues, that this government, which is called "the government of people", is not putting family policies first on its political agenda. And to the facts I refer: The III Family Plan ended in 2015; we are in 2017, and we do not have a new family plan. We don't have a new family plan. We have here an approved Basque strategy for family and children, but it is such a general framework that it does not contain concrete and specific measures to solve and address the problems we have as a Basque society, of the lowest birth rates, not only in Europe, in the world. Obstacles persist to form a family, young people leave us... Tell us what society we're going to have in the future. I gave them the data at the beginning of my intervention, we are the same as 30 years ago, only much older (some more, some less), but we are the same. We have a problem as a society in the demographic challenge and in the demographic policies that must be made to look at, and I believe that this Government is absolutely set up in self-congratulation and absolute inaction in family policies. And when this Government had to have put family policies as a priority, it did not. It must be said that this Government has cut support to families, it must be said, that the first priority of this Government, which was set up as "the government of people", has not been to put family policies at the centre of its policies, by cutting support to families. Precisely, the increases that have come in the budgets in this legislature have come at the hands of the People's Party, increasing the aid, both by birth and by conciliation, and in line with the convergence with the countries of the European Union, and in line with the objectives that we set ourselves in the Third Family Plan. We therefore believe that we need to be ambitious, that we need to be realistic, and that this Government should have faced a major problem that we have as a society and has not done so. It has remained installed in self-congratulation and, of course, has not put family policies in their proper place. Of course, the help... It's just that birth or dependent child support... Luxembourg, EUR 216; Belgium, EUR 112; Germany, EUR 184; Austria, EUR 132, of course, on a universal basis. That is to say, it is to put it to you, because the trend in Europe is to establish aid on a universal basis. In the vast majority of EU countries, aid is universal, in some countries up to the age of 18 and in others up to the age of 21. I sincerely believe that we have to look in the mirror of Europe, but we have to look in the mirror of Europe at family policies, which have certainly been able to detect problems, and have been able to anticipate and implement really effective and really useful family policies to remedy the problems we have. Of course, it is that the III Family Plan ended in 2015, it is that we are in 2017, and we do not have a family plan, counselor, we do not have the main instrument in which the concrete measures that are necessary to reverse a situation that I believe is absolutely problematic. I will stick to the proposals put forward by the People's Party (some of them are not new), but, of course, we have once again found a lack of decision, commitment, leadership in this Government in the design of a fundamental policy, such as family policies. And in order to alleviate all these shortcomings that this Government presents in family policy, we have been presenting many initiatives throughout this legislature, and we again propose a Basque pact for equality and reconciliation, but that includes political parties, not that it stays in the institutional sphere, no, that includes all political parties and that is at the centre of Basque political action the demographic challenge and family policies in children. And when we draw up this fourth family plan (which comes with absolute delay, since the third one has already expired in 2015), we want strategic lines, concrete measures, concrete economic allocations and evaluation systems (in half and in the end) to see the degree of compliance with the measures; we want quality indicator systems, and we want that, just as we have a tool to measure the gender impact, we can look at the family impact on the regulations developed by the Basque Government. We want a guide for families, so that they know the resources they have within the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country from the various institutions, an absolutely updated guide. We want the Family Observatory to be given content. Look, one of our main proposals, and in line with the convergence with Europe (this objective that you had already planned a few years ago, but that you have left it on the way), we propose a tax check linked to the income declaration, regardless of its outcome, for an amount of 1,200 euros for each child under the age of 18 living with the taxpayer. These are realistic measures; these are measures that would help reverse the situation we have in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and these are measures that really look at what is being done more in the most advanced countries in Europe, which have long since seen where family policies have to go. Since this government so much likes to look in the mirror of Europe, look in the mirror of Europe to see what policies are working. And these are the policies that are working. We therefore propose an amount, a tax aid, a tax check on the income declaration for an amount of EUR 1,200 for each child under the age of 18 living with the taxpayer. We also propose (we already know that it is the competence of the outlaws) that deductions by ascendants be increased. We also plan to make progress in the gratuity of the first cycle of children's education concluded, in the 2 to 3 years stretch, and to make progress in the progressive elimination of quotas in the 0 to 2 years stretch, until the total gratuity for this stage of the education system is reached. We also propose out-of-school initiatives to reconcile family, work and personal life. Specific programmes that can be carried out in the educational field to instill the importance of responsible reconciliation and positive parenting. And we also propose to create a "Euskadi Concilia" badge for companies in this country that implement measures to promote reconciliation. We must encourage companies which are established in our Autonomous Community to also promote measures in favour of conciliation. Or enhance the Concilia Portal, which is an effective tool for supporting and supporting companies. Or promote teleworking in the private sector. Also awareness-raising campaigns in training, in co-responsibility, in the value of the family, in effective equality between men and women. These are the proposals. I have highlighted the most relevant ones, but I think they are proposals that go in line with the mirror of what is being done in the countries of the European Union, and they are the policies that are really working, and they are really the policies that have allowed...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u20	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u21	... or they allow us to reverse the birth problem we were having (and we are clearly at the head of the birth and aging rates we have as a population). Some of the solutions, modestly, are these proposals. I hope you look at them carefully.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u22	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u23	Mrs Kortajarena, I indicated to you in my first speech that it was precisely we who welcomed the debate, but that it was clear that different things had been done before, such as the elaboration of a Basque strategy for the family and children, seeking the greatest possible consensus and participation, and also the agreement in the Pact for Families, and that it was already planned within the programme – yes, forgive me, I was looking for you, I did not know where you were – for the family and for the children that we already collected within our government pact between the PNV and the PSOE. With which, you've been doing things. We have recently experienced a reaction from society, on 8 March, where there has been a growing awareness of the need to move forward on effective real equality between men and women, and we must ensure that our public policies, that this awareness does not remain in a mere mobilization, on 8 March, but in a clear before and after in the fight for equality. Mrs Kortajarena said that we should move forward in measures that avoid inequalities from childhood. We have said that we were in agreement with this and also that these improvements had to affect all types of families, not only traditional families (if you have listened to me correctly, in my first intervention I made clear reference to this situation). The Employment and Social Policy Adviser has referred in her intervention to the need to implement a set of policies that respond to two phenomena that have been seen to be structural in nature, such as the low birth rate, resulting from other causes of persistent obstacles that make it difficult for people who can develop their family project and have the children they want, and, secondly, the greater economic difficulties of families with children (which has led to growth in child poverty), as well as increasing difficulties in breaking the intergenerational transmission of inequalities, which calls into question the principle of equal opportunities. The recently signed family pact has found not only that mentioned above, but also, despite the efforts made in recent years, that support policies for families with children still have in Euskadi, as is also the case in the other countries of southern Europe, a significant margin of improvement, at least when compared to those developed in other countries of Europe. And today we have in this plenary an opportunity to continue working on this improvement. I have already pointed out in my first speech that we are facing a paradigm shift. The main feature of this new paradigm is the change of emphasis, from policies aimed at redress to prevention based on the consideration of educational family and gender equality policies, among others, as a key and fundamental element for not only social but also economic development. From this point of view, this approach focuses on services that allow investment in children, generate conditions that allow for a certain level of equal opportunities and social and intergenerational mobility, facilitate the processes of emancipation and transition to adulthood, support families with children, and facilitate women's access to quality paid employment. But it is very important that birth is valued not only in terms of its demographic or socio-economic implications, but primarily in terms of its individual implications, as it affects the vital satisfaction of individuals and their own well-being. That is what I defended, Mrs Kortajarena, in my first speech. It is therefore important that the ultimate objective of the family policy that we want to emerge from this monograph and from the measures that derive from this family pact is not only to increase the number of children who have families, but also to allow the free realization of the reproductive expectations of those who make them. The current reality is that families are not having the number of children they want because of difficulties in having the time to reconcile personal and working life and because of low co-responsibility in the care of children and older persons, among other issues. The most recent data on hidden poverty provided by the poverty and social inequality survey indicate that there is a contingent of 100,000 people aged 18 to 44 who would like to be a new home and who cannot do so for economic reasons. The problems associated with the lack of adequate employment or instability at work highlight the drop in wages in general, after the 2012 labour reform, and the low wages in particular that young people are receiving, together with the difficulties they may have in emancipating themselves and accessing housing, are the main obstacles to the emancipation process. In addition, some 30,000 people have interrupted their work over the past three years due to problems relating to the care of dependent persons. Of these, 83% are women. The consequence of this current reality is the clear risk of poverty in families with dependent children. More than 30,000 people live in this situation of real poverty. One of the most important effects of increasing poverty and inequality in children has to do with lower opportunities for upward social mobility and intergenerational transmission of inequality. In the knowledge society, people's vital opportunities will increasingly depend on the cultural, social and cognitive capital accumulated since the first years of life. That is why today the main forms of inequality and the main sources of exclusion come (and will do more in the future if we do not make policies that effectively change this trend) from the different capacities of families and educational systems to offer in those early years of life the necessary stimuli and learnings in this context. Euskadi is at the head of the state in schooling in the first cycle of Early Childhood Education, with rates comparable to those of the Nordic countries, but we must continue to take steps in this direction. The main problem we have is that Basque social spending is much less geared than that of the other countries of the European Union to children and families with children, so we have to correct that situation. Much work has shown that one of the bases for the success of family support models is its universal nature. But such universality, in any case, is not constrained as a progressive approach that grants higher amounts and specific support to lower-income families. It is clear that we also have a Basque income guarantee system that prevents real poverty rates from being reduced within the population by 36 per cent. But these incomes are only part of our system, but it must, of course, be complemented by family policies that will serve in the long term to change those trends. My group agrees with this, because equality between women and men and co-responsibility in parenting are the best policy for the promotion of birth. From the observation of this reality, the actions deriving from this pact will have to emphasize the improvement of social, educational, health and childcare services, as well as the benefits for the care of children in the framework of a co-responsible conciliation. When the PP spoke to us about the responsibility of successive governments, I understand that it must and must also refer to the responsibility for measures that have also been taken by governments, such as the Government of Spain (which I agree with Mrs Kortajarena that has clearly affected this growth of inequalities that directly affect the family and children) and also those that have been taken from different parliaments. Today in this monograph we have the opportunity to continue working in this direction and to seek the broadest political consensus in the public policies to be taken in order to achieve this objective. Now it's up to us to work on it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u24	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u25	First of all, thank you, ma'am. See if I can sort out all the ideas. The first thing I want to bring to this reply is that I am deeply surprised that we are having as a sort of two parallel debates. Some of us speak clearly of child and family policies; others speak of birth policies and with everything else as garlands to adorn. Talking about family investment policies is having that ability to look wide. Maybe this monograph is the beginning, maybe we'll have to take some time to think, to talk, to agree... In mediation the first thing is to establish a language and a common glossary of terms, a clear definition of objectives. And that, a clear definition of objectives of what we are pursuing when we come here to build these discourses, is part of building the common good and is part of putting at the center also worthy lives and social reproduction, not reproduction of people. Apart from this, I would also like to bring another reflection that arises from an expression that Mrs Sánchez said, but which to some extent we have reproduced – some more than others, but we have reproduced all of them – "to form families is synonymous with having daughters or children". That, in our view, is an anachronism, logical and consistent with the education received, which we all have, but of course, if we are talking about investment policies in children and families, we will have to talk about childhood and we will have to talk about family, and we will have to talk about those children as subjects of law; subjects of law who need a family environment, but they also need many other things. If we apply a reductionist view to the approach to the problem we are dealing with today, we run the risk of putting on the table solutions that they pay for and that they will not find everything they have to cover. And the third, a curiosity. A curiosity that emerges to me when suddenly all the people who are speaking today in this rostrum point to being spearhead around equality, care and women's rights. I will remind you when the budgets come back and we will remind you every time we are coming up to this rostrum: if there is a serious commitment to equality, there has to be a serious commitment that has its correlation in the budgets, right? I remember, for example, that in November 2017 we brought to this House an initiative to increase the budget to combat sexist violence and equality, to which you vote against and arrive, on the contrary, at an agreement that speaks neither of budgets, nor of resources, nor of anything at all. There each one of you hangs the medal, you'll know what's inside it. We talk about family policies, we talk about children's policies, and sometimes I miss that we are able to cross-reference the whole government – not just your department, Mrs. Artolazabal – this bet we make with the reflection around families. I miss how, for example, Save the Children has been systematically proposing to us to bet on plans for the prevention of violence, which would not be fair to you, but that they would not remain in anyone's land, nor would they seem to care who is directly questioned. Mr Urrutia, you have spoken about the portfolio decree and the importance of socio-educational intervention, an issue that the Councillor has also mentioned. I was saying that in my initial speech, in the pact it is said that from now on we are going to make a real bet on socio-educational interventions. I am waiting for them to be provided with sufficient resources, because that real investment, that need to bet and put at the center the socio-educational interventions, if it is not provided with resources, goes nowhere but to the precariousness of those who are playing day-to-day in jobs in which they do not have the necessary resources to achieve the objectives. Mrs Artolazabal, thank you for appointing migrants and refugees today, thank you and let us hope that you will not remain alone in the ephemeride. We take the opportunity to remind you that it is our laws – the Housing Act, the Social Services Act, the Etxebide Regulatory Decree... – that establish the obligation to have legal and effective residence. Therefore, there are a number of neighbours and neighbours, of those migrants and foreigners who are contributing to the development of our society, to which we are leaving out. I remind you today, 21 March, and I will remind you of the rest of what is left of the legislature, because this is not the first time I have told you. We're talking about child poverty, and I'm sorry, but if I don't say it, it's going to come out like the ears: When we're talking about child poverty instead of talking about childization of poverty, we're plotting a problem. There are no poor children in wealthy families, or it is not normal at least. It is shown that there are people who have daughters and children, therefore they are families, who also charge income guarantee income. You have talked about proposing measures that will improve income guarantee income, but you have forgotten to mention that they also propose an RGI for housing when we have thousands of families who are having to share housing in Euskadi, not out of taste, but out of necessity. Yeah? You don't remember those. Nor does it remember that GIR only ends poverty in 26% of cases. Mrs Kortajarena told you, I repeat it to you now. We need structural solutions to structural problems. You from the government have the capacity, you have the possibility, you seem to have the will, you take responsibility and you are serious. Propose concrete commitments. You cannot come here to say that you are going to strengthen the Children's Observatory and you are going to strengthen it with more tasks having a person working, without providing it with resources and without apparently expanding those resources. I'm sorry, Mrs. Artolazabal, it seems to me that your commitment is not serious. It seems to me that the goals that he puts on the table in the pact are inconcrete, they are poor, and it seems to me that people are left out. Where are people with functional diversity left in the Compact for Investment in Children and Family? Don't they have daughters and children, people with functional diversity? Don't you have the right to have them? How much do you think of them as subjects of public policy as well? They forget things and when we forget things, we leave people out and that can't be. Thank you for letting us contribute, in any case, this monograph to the family plan; thank you for not doing what you have done with so many other plans, which brings them in as an appearance and where Parliament has nothing to say. I also want to mention one last thing. He spoke about the increase in birth rate in France thanks to investment policies in children and families. I have no doubt, but you are forgetting to mention that this increase in birth rate also has a very direct relationship with the migrant and refugee people living in France who are second-generation French and who are contributing just as much as here to increase birth rate and to provide generational relief. You have also said that in Euskadi the levels of protection are among the highest in Europe, but you have forgotten to say that when you are under 18, you also have one of the highest risks of falling into poverty. When we talk about universality and we don't give the whole part and we take into account all people, we're drawing the concept. We understand that consensus is indispensable. We understand that in order to reach consensus we need to talk and we need to give in to all parties, not just a few. We understand that some things should be reworded and that many more people and many more collectives should be heard, than they have been heard so far. We understand that we have to invest in people, because that is important, and in that we agree with the policy that you bring us here (at least on paper), but we agree with what Mrs Kortajarena has said: people have to be at the centre, the principle of well-being and the guarantee of rights for people has to be what guides all this. It cannot be social or political profitability. Mrs. Garrido – I'm shortening – what do you understand by universality? Because the truth is that I am quite surprised when I repeat it, I think it has been nine or ten times, but then we talk about other services or other services and in that already universality goes to a background. In the PP universe, it seems that there are no precarious pensioners, no young people, no people whose party has left without Social Security, no migrants or refugees. I don't know, so, of course, they can't count on us. That said, I repeat, we bet that this pact will help us all to be able to fight for a more just, more supportive, more egalitarian and more participatory society for all people and so that we are all free to decide whether or not we want to have children. Like I said: a profound, long glance, a gaze that considers the whole population. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. And finish this trip, Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Congressmaster, good noon to everyone. I'd like to answer some of the things you said here, those you said during the two cabins. I'm going to start with Mrs. Kortaja's. You said, "words and actions." I believe that we begin a way this evening, and that it is not yet time to accuse the differences between words and actions. Maybe it can get further, but now, now, no. And besides, I'm sure that by degrees, and that even progressively, we can be able to get to great agreements. You said the same thing about placing people in the centre. We have always maintained that people should be placed in the centre. And I'd say more: I believe that, even as a political refrain, it is not at present; but in the previous legislation of the President Urcullu, when he mentioned "the object." And besides, I think I should put people in the centre... You see, of all the things I've said on my first turn, I'd mention a sentence. And that's when I said: "Debe retererarse que en este feelo, que la intervención pública en este ámbito no debetrasque en las consecensias de lananciaidad, sino en el derecho y el bienestar de las." And that's because we're thinking about people. You say no, but... Maybe you don't think the same way, but we're thinking about people. I think, because we are in the presence of great matters of size, I must confess that I respect the will to the agreement I have felt in you in the last few days. You said that the balances were essential, and I quite agree. And with the intention of making such balances, I believe I have repeated it in this other tribe, there are two ways of going to ruin. One, which is impossible, and is at the moment impossible to demand, and another to postpone what is inevitable. And we're not here for either one or the other. You said also that the contract was taken from a populist joke, but you've later confessed that in your first round there is "a large goal" and "replaced in other contexts." I think that it is a great end, and that in other contexts they do not agree, and that they do not very well reconcile themselves with populism. And you also mentioned what was said by an expert during some of our proceedings last time. but I shall mention what another has said: They were representatives of the North or Pyreneo Atlantic, where he praised the model of social investment and protected the model we have here today. You mentioned on the second round that there are places for consent and disagreements, and I agree. I encourage you to cultivate our agreements. And you also mention that you're afraid of creating a new mantra saying "que las mejores pollicas de protección sonn las de familys." I think we're talking the other way around here. What we really want is to promote family policies, which also lead to having, whomever you want, the children you want to have, basically attacking that parameter that is called the "deficit of well-being", which is precisely that relationship between the children that one – or one – wants to have and those who finally have. And I see that you remember what they told you at the meeting, and, as I told you, not to put a perfile. I'll confess to you today, from the same tribe, I don't think you've ever put up with a perfile. And then I'd say that you were the most focused on the rest of the teams, but I'll tell you one thing: I, too, remember what I've been told at other gatherings, and you may be sure that with such an attitude as yours there will be no allergic to agree with you. Mrs Garrido, you were talking about unambitious policies in your first speech. I believe that it was unambitious to continue with the policies that you have wanted to push so far. We believe that this plan is ambitious and seeks to make us converge with Europe, also in this area, but this will not happen overnight either. The ambition of this plan – if it allows me and does not call me complacent for it – is to be able to become, at the level of philosophy at least, a Nordic country in southern Europe, and that is the ambition where today we want to start laying the foundations. The data you have provided on the differential we have with countries such as France, Sweden and Germany are, among other things, the public policies undertaken by those countries in the field of family and children, although it is true, as I said in my first speech, that this is not only resolved by public policies. You have repeated throughout your interventions the previous data, the balance sheet of the last two decades, the evolution of spending, the year-on-year increases, a review of family policies so far... No, not at all, Mrs. Garrido. At this moment our intention is at least to look forward, not backwards, and the challenge, in this case, is enormous and needs all and all of you as well. That's why I'd ask you to turn your speech around at some point. With regard to Mrs Guanche, it is not true – or at least I do not see it as true – that some here are talking about child and family policies and other birth policies. I believe that, at least we are talking in child and family policies also about birth policies. And, as I said, our intention is, basically, to attack this well-being deficit, to be able to also grow birth. Yes, it is, but this is in a very focused area of children's and family policies, which, as I have long recalled in my first speech, I believe is cross-cutting in many areas. Anyway, I take the floor, this "take some time to conjugate our languages." I think it's important. And look, to finish, they give a lot of importance to the photo of the pact. Well, I don't know if it's the best photo; no, it's probably not the best photo, but, look, I'm gonna think about it. What do I see in the picture? (I hope you don't call me anything for it.) I see in the photo three times represented to 100% of the citizens of the Basque Autonomous Community: One, in the figure of the lehendakari; two, in the figure of the three deputies general; and three, in the figure of the president of Eudel, who represents 251 municipalities of Euskadi. And I'll tell you more. If there were five women in that picture, I would see the same thing, because social representation is given by votes, votes articulated in institutions. Yes, the votes, and the votes articulated in the institutions, and not the sex of those who lead each of those institutional levels. So, of course, I'm telling you this at an anecdote level. It's not the most important thing. I'm staying, and I'm telling you, and I'm telling you again, with "taking some time to conjugate languages." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u28	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. At this point the meeting stops until three-thirty. And to book resolutions until two to ten. If you need more time, you'll ask for it. Half an hour to get into the register and negotiate for half an hour and a half. If you need more, ask me. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-one. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-eight.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u29	We'll go back to the whole meeting. The members of the legislature, in order that they propose the resolutions, will be within 20 minutes. And first, Mrs Garrido, representing the Basque Potula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u30	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Given and analysed the motions for resolutions of the other parties, and without wishing to underestimate the other proposals, which some of us consider very positive and in fact we are going to vote on, I believe that the People's Party in this plenary has made a clear exercise of ambition and realism, putting forward absolutely realistic proposals that affect the real problems we have and with the aim of reversing a situation. I will dwell on some of the proposals, but above all I would like to focus on a proposal which is also in line with convergence with the European Union. So much so that you like to look at Mr Lehendakari and his Government in Europe, I think that in the area of birth aid, it is a good reference to look at what is happening in Europe. Moreover, I think it is a matter of clear political will, Mr Lehendakari, because there is money. And when there is money, it's about prioritizing, and I think that family policies, and a government that stands as the "government of people", would have to make a lot more effort in family policy and also in family support policy, if we want to converge with Europe, and if, of course, we don't want to stay behind either. In addition, we are left behind the very approaches that this government has taken in the past parliamentary term. We propose a tax check linked to the income declaration, regardless of its result, for an amount of 1,200 euros for each child under the age of 18 living with the taxpayer. This tax check, which is linked to the income declaration, regardless of its outcome (no doubt, because if it were not a new proposal and which also really emphasises the issue of support for families in line with convergence with Europe, since so much the lehendakari likes to look at Europe), we would suggest that this amount of EUR 1,200 should be added to the current deduction per child. That is to say, it would not be 1,200 alone, but 1,200 euros plus the deductions that currently exist per child. We are talking about 1,200 euros plus 594 euros deduction for the first child; for the second would be 735, plus 1,200, and for the third 1.242, plus 1,200; for 1,467, plus 1,200 for the fourth, and then we would already talk about almost 2,000 euros. Therefore, we were talking about an aid amount of 1,200 euros for each child under the age of 18, which would be added to the current deductions, is what we call "tax check". We also believe, Mr Lehendakari, and taking advantage of the fact that you are now present in this debate, which is possible, that it is a question of political will, and if you stand up and have stood up as the "Government of people", and that puts people at the centre of your political activity, this is a mere question of political will. And I'm going to tell you why: The collection in February 2017 was 7%, the forecast of the Basque Finance Council was 4%. We are talking about what the People's Party proposes: this tax check of 1,200 euros per child (which would add, as I say, to the amounts I have previously indicated based on the current deduction by the number of descendants) would amount to about 450 million euros (which is calculated). We have surpluses in collection, and I therefore believe, Mr Lehendakari, that this is a matter of mere political will. We're talking about 3.5% of the collection, when you... That is to say, those 450 million euros would represent 3.5% of the collection, when you have had a 7 % collection compared to the forecasts that were 4 % of the collection. That is why I say to you, Mr Lehendakari, that if you believe in Basque families, in their problems; if you believe in convergence with Europe (as much as you like to look at Europe), you have nothing more to look at than what is being done in the countries of the European Union, and you have nothing more to look at the possibilities that we have in accordance with our legal system, and according to our surplus collection, which, as I say, have been higher than the forecasts in the Basque Finance Council, which have been 4 %. We therefore believe that this aid (and this is the real convergence with Europe) is absolutely feasible in relation to the collection forecasts that this government has. It is a matter of mere political will, and I have to say that the 1,200 euros for each child under the age of 18, as a tax check linked to the declaration of income, would already be added to the deductions currently by descendants. I therefore believe that it is a realistic objective; I believe that it is an objective to which as a society we can reach, and which we can aim for, Mr Lehendakari. It is a matter of priorities, and of course the priority of the People's Party (one of them, I would say, the most significant in line with what is being done in Europe), is this: tax check linked to the income declaration, regardless of its result, in the amount of 1,200, for each child under the age of 18, which would add to the deductions currently existing for each descendant. I have to say, in this respect, that there is a similar proposal, I do not know if it is similar or similar, on the part of EH Bildu, because I have not quite understood it, but it is rather short, because it speaks of EUR 1,500 per year. And with the proposal of the People's Party (1,200 euros), that if they are added to the deductions currently per descendant, we far exceed the amount established by the group of EH Bildu, of 1,500 euros. I therefore believe that our proposal is much more realistic. I believe that it is also in line with the collection possibilities we have had, which have been higher than the forecasts of the Basque Finance Council itself. Mr Lehendakari, Counsellor, it is a matter of mere political will. If you place Basque families as a priority in the policies of this Government, you cannot, of course, reject, as you have rejected, this proposal by the People's Party. You know that we have been very short on family support. It is no longer because we have not converged with Europe, which was provided for in the Family Plan, which has already expired, but we have fallen far behind the very forecasts envisaged in the last Family Plan. I believe that you in this matter are very raccoons and not ambitious for the situation we have in the Basque Country. We have the birth rate, we have the rate of ageing of the population, and I believe that you, as far as family and family policies are concerned, have sincerely raised very little ambition and have been absolutely conformist, Mr Lehendakari. And I say that to the government that has been erected at all times in the "Government of People". Of course, I believe that families, with their problems, with their needs, have not been in the first line of political action of this Government. I say to you, Mr Lehendakari: you have surplus collection, the forecasts are much higher than you have anticipated and those envisaged in the Basque Public Finance Council itself. We are talking about EUR 450 million; we are also talking about a division between the various institutions by coefficients, and, if we are talking about convergence with Europe and if we want to look in the mirror of Europe, I believe, Mr Lehendakari, that this is the time, because if not, as a society, we will clearly be left behind. Well, Mr. Lehendakari, we've been left behind. That is our main proposal. I am sorry that it has not finally been possible to reach an agreement with some other groups, with Podemos, EH Bildu... I also call you to think about it, because I think it would be an approach, which we would put on the table, which, moreover, in line with the most advanced countries in Europe, could solve the problems that we have of low birth rate and aging of our population. Mr Lehendakari, it is a matter of political will. So don't tell me that the "Government of People" couldn't make a greater effort in Basque families that make up people... It is a laughing matter; I do not think it is a matter of laughing when the figures are there and when you know how we have the indices and, of course, in some areas we are in line with the most advanced countries of the European Union, and they have detected these problems for a long time. This is our main proposal. I continue to call for reflection, for the possibility of an approximation between the EH Bildu and Podemos group in relation to this proposal, because I do not know if at this time, but perhaps we can move forward in this line, because, I say, it is also the line in which the countries of the European Union are moving, with systems of aid up to the age of 18, universal (some countries far beyond, up to the age of 21). And, of course, this should be an absolute priority for this government, to converge with Europe on the issue of support for families and families with children. And it gives the impression that, because of the proposals, because of what was carried on in the program of legislature of the Basque Nationalist Party, so then we have seen black on white in the program of legislature between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, there is very little ambition in the matter of family policies, there is too much conformism and little ambition, Mr Lehendakari, for a government that stands in the "Government of the People". Therefore, do not tell us any more that you want to represent the Basque families, because it does not correspond to the reality and reality that will emerge today from this plenary, for lack of ambition, realism of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which are the parties that are part of the government. This, of course, is our most significant proposal. In the morning I have stopped in others, I will stop now in others, but I believe that this is an objective that can be achieved, taking into account the surplus collection, taking into account the Basque Finance Council's own forecasts, and we believe, Mr Lehendakari, that you are sitting here today, which is a matter of mere political will. And if you put people at the center of your political activity... You were talking in pre-election campaign of 200 million euros for Basque families, and the strategy has still been approved recently, we don't have the plan, we don't have the 200 million... I do not know, of course, where your word is, Mr Lehendakari, but as far as the family is concerned, I have to say that there is a lot of doubt. And, of course, I am sorry for the Basque families, because this government shows a clear lack of ambition and, of course, here the mirror, Mr Lehendakari, are not the most advanced countries in the European Union, they are not the most advanced countries in the European Union, they will be others, but, of course, they are not your mirror when it comes to implementing family policies. This is our proposal, of the most significant, but I shall go on to detail a few others that I have pointed out this morning. We propose a Basque pact for reconciliation and equality, which includes political parties, beyond a photo, Mr Lehendakari, in which the Counsellor appears in a corner. We believe that a much more ambitious pact for reconciliation and equality is possible. And to put the demographic challenge and the policies of children and families at the centre of political action. We believe that, in addressing the IV inter-institutional family support plan, it is a plan that should also stand out in detail, and not remain in bulk and, of course, establish evaluation systems and, of course, the economic appropriations envisaged, so that it does not pass as in the last Family Plan, that the forecasts for support to families have clearly not been met. We believe that it is also important to introduce a family impact report. All day long, Mr Lehendakari, talking about people and that the centre of action has to be people... and then, when the People's Party puts forward a proposal that we believe is in line with a modern society, a society that has ambition and objectives in relation to family policies, it should introduce the issue of gender impact into the legislation that is being developed by the Basque Government. I think you guys are finally going to accept the family guide. We understand that this was another important issue, that this Government is considering and developing a guide for the family with all the resources available for Basque families. We believe that the Family Observatory should also be given content. It is an observatory, that if you stop and we take a look, of course, we believe that you have to give it a good push, and that it clearly reflects the X-ray of reality, the situation and problem of Basque families. He spoke of the tax check linked to the income declaration, regardless of its result, in the amount of 1,200 euros, which would be added, as he said earlier, to the deductions currently provided for by the first child, 594; second, 735; third, 1,242; and fourth, 1,467. In other words, it would be those amounts plus 1,200 euros. I believe that the economic scenario allows us, and I believe that the reality of Basque families demands it, Mr Lehendakari. We also propose to increase aid for conciliation, and also to increase deductions for ascendants. We also believe that there is a need for greater harmonization of labour standards and school hours. And I do have to say that there is some other proposal from the EH Bildu group, in relation to free education, but it seems to us that it is also rather short. Because we talk about the gratuity of the first cycle of children's education agreed, in the 2 to 3 years stretch, and progress progressively in the progressive elimination of quotas in the 0 to 2 years stretch, until reaching the total gratuity of this stage for the entire non-educational system. I think it is another of our proposals stars, ambitious and of course they are feasible to tackle, if we are concerned about Basque families, about the problem of birth, about the problem of reconciliation... Mr Lehendakari, I do not think these are measures to dispatch them with a small headline or a small argument. We also plan to create a badge for Euskadi Concilia for self-employed, SMEs and large companies that implement measures that promote the reconciliation of the working and personal lives of their workers, that is reviewable every year and that allows access to benefits in the different lines of action that can be promoted from the institutions. We also believe, and it is a demand that has come to us from different collectives, and we have seen that it is a portal, the Concilia portal, that had to be updated, in order to really set it up as an effective tool of support and accompaniment in matters of reconciliation to the companies. We have also proposed assistance for the development of out-of-school integration initiatives for pupils with special educational needs. Also information campaigns, telework promotion measures. Also measures to prevent different violence, also actions for the prevention of addictions and drug addictions. Also for the care of the elderly in their own home. Also situations of measures and mechanisms for the prevention, approach and follow-up of situations of child neglect and adolescence. In short, Mr Lehendakari, Madam Counsellor, but I will refer above all to Mr Lehendakari, because your Government, with you at the head, has always stood up in the people's government. You, with the proposals of the People's Party (in some of them I have stopped quite exhaustively), have an opportunity to make a turn in the family policies that you have carried out in the years that you have been as lehendakari. And I have to say, regrettably, not for the People's Party, but for Basque society and for Basque families, that their family policies, in terms of convergence with Europe, which was one of their objectives, have a clamorous suspension. Take a closer look at the amendments by the People's Party, which seek to remedy that absolutely wrong direction and not in line with the challenges we face as a modern and advanced society. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u31	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u32	Yeah. Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief physician, everyone, good afternoon. In the first place, I have heard from this account that Mrs. Garrido, first of all, the body asks me to introduce all these measures here proposed in Spain, and that, in fact, this Spanish history does not produce much attraction to us, but I believe that those measures suggested by such an account, even in Madrid, are to be protected by us, Mrs. Garrido, if they are to act with such force. As we have said in the morning, the question of our present system is a concept of contemplation, and these differences between men and women, and as far as they are structured they must have structural solutions, which will go to the root of the problem? We have, as we have said, arranged this monographic discussion round the two axes. On the one hand, in the midst of the change of social organization, and on the other, of the collection of public policies which tend to raise a decent life for people. And I've mentioned it before, but the division of the job, the decent work, the apartment, the income to guarantee the incomes, the children's schools, the giving of incomes... So the resolution proposals we've made have been placed in the back of these two axes. He has introduced the Basque People to 46 apposals, and, to be honest, we think we've made an attempt. We've been trying to prepare these proposals, and we've been trying to make a fairly accurate request in these 46 resolutions, because we've made a specific request for each sort of resolution. Before we continue, I'd like to say that we'd like to accept it, and that we're also grateful to most parties and to the government itself for this negotiation. We knew it from our projections, and we discussed it (especially with the representatives of EAJ) that sometimes we're at the end and there'd be no chance of agreeing... But at other times, we've made an attempt to understand each other, to open paths... That's what this monographic was asking for, right? Looking at this long strategy of the treaty, such as to open up the possibility of these ways together. Some of our proposals have been taken up in this way, and we wish to accept this government with the dignity and dignity which he has been able to answer to our proposals. The other teams did too. Together we had an easy negotiation with Podemos. We've tried other things, too, with Mrs Garrido. But, well, we believe that in this way of defining such negotiations and strategy, especially in this way of defining national challenges, it is important to put them all on the same account. We, I think, have made this attempt, and have seen it from other groups, and in this sense, I think it is very important to confess it. Our proposals, as I have said, have been related to these blocks. Some of them have been the proposals of preparation which lie within the protection system and the protection system. We've just brought in a few proposals about the rent to ensure their income, which they have not been accepted. It is true that we have a reform on our way to this reform, but it is true, as I said yesterday, that the rules of gambling are likely, and that we made some proposals, and the chief physician himself, when he has here mentioned the proposals of the treaty, has also brought in the exact proposals of the rent, and we believe that it might be important to take care of them too. In any case, we shall look forward to this reform, and examine here the measures here proposed, especially to that progress which is now at present, that progress which is planned for the children, and to the extent of our deliberations. Even in the course of the social change of arrangement, we've presented several proposals. Above all, what is proposed is the opening of intercrossing and means with feminists of movement, and the transition to be made in this change of social care, in order to be accompanying, is also accepted. And it seems to us that March 8, after this surrender, and that movement that has arisen there, is important to gather these forces, and when such popular reports are made, even in such popular challenges, may be brought to a grave use by the aid of the feminist movement. We therefore take a very positive view of the production of these interhopulation spaces. And they are very positive for us in certain propositions which have been admitted to work. What we planned was, in order to be able to do in a sort of fashion, the relembling of the generations which must be directed to the future; and, above all, to answer the needs of those collective ones who are the most premeditated, we made certain proposals for a decent employment and a proper job, to make a way of doing it. Above all, the planning of an orderly plan, and applying to the exact measurements of women and feminists in this plan, which have been accepted. And it's very positive for us, because even when the Eplegu Plan was introduced, we said that this Eplegu Plan had great holes in its way to high-quality employment, had great weaknesses, and we believe that today's sanctions will, in some measure, be a positive influence on our present point of view. We had also proposed some measures in relation to housing policies and that the subjective right to housing could be exercised, above all focusing on at least not giving priority to replacing the right to housing with the benefit that replaces that right. Because, in some ways, that implies emptying from contents a right that is subjective, and we also consider that the amount of that benefit that replaces the right to housing today is reviewable, because it remains very short. That 250 € stays short. We have also proposed a few measures on the expedition, and these proposals have also been admitted. I don't know if this was accepted or not, but Mrs. Gloria Sánche will probably tell me later. We proposed an examination so that we could somehow direct this rupture between the working world and the education world. It seems to us at this particular moment that it is not possible to apply precise measures; it is very difficult for us to stand in the presence of a state that is complex. But it seems to us that this process of information, the inquiry, may, in some measure, give us some arguments to put on the method which is to be done later on, and to determine by form what is to be done. Mrs. Sánchez will explain it to me. Because that was the limit of the deadline. We put some time forward to bring forward these proposals, we were asked to be supple, and in this sense we found that these proposals were more interesting than to carry them out for the time being, and thus we behaved with elasticity. And we requested a specialized plan of association, because it seems to us that we have a great deal to reflect on all groups and to look forward to. Perhaps, as Mrs. Guanche said, we all need time, and we all need exams. Well, it's true that all the facts show that the help and preparation which they've been directed to the treatment we've been dealing with don't have the effect they wanted to be. Not only because they have been effective in these natists of yours, but still more because they have left the watch-points behind the women. And this is because we think it's essential to go around and do a process of modification. In this sense, what we proposed was, well, to take a kind of study, to have a special plan. To give a debate about four elements of the balance. that it is necessary to consider the manner of paying, and to examine the numbers which are placed in the same proportion. And even in the world of education we have proposed a step on the way to the freeness of children, and it has been accepted. We know that our choice is probably about the freeness. We've defended it a lot. But we're happy, we're so happy, because after we get the negative round, it'll be agreed to be here today for families with incomes less than 180,000 dollars. And we think it's a small achievement, we're very grateful in this sense. Well, we are very grateful that these posts have changed, and that we think it's a very competent benefit and resolution that keeps us on the right track. Then even in that sense, we're very happy. Of course, we've also made proposals about the prosecution. It's true Mrs Garrido says she didn't understand our proposal. Our proposal is, I think, perfectly understood. The fact is, we didn't understand each other, but I think the proposal is understood. What we were proposing was that the present removals could be reembolsable, and that when the rental is made, those families which have the most entrances would be determined by payment or deductions required by a progressive and balanced prosecution. And 'tis the benefit he has, or may have, of those persons who have least means, and who have no need of an income, because they have no other kind of ingregation, but are thought to be a concrete measure for them. And then it seems to us that these Subtractions become somehow useful to everyone, and that it leads us to correct the social inequality which created them in their origin. It seemed to us, moreover, that these removers ought to be renewed, and to be resurrected from different points of view. From our point of view, they should be non-linear removes and not progressives as they are now. And on the other hand, the number of things must be rejected. And we, using the reference which Savee the Childen proposes to guarantee those basic incomes for children and teenagers, propose 1,500. It would be a 12-month proposition. And, well, this proposal won't survive. But I suppose we shall have a chance to discuss such matters. And Mrs Garrido also said they're willing to discuss it, so are we. So we'll have a chance, right? And we'd plan it around the prosecutor. We knew we wouldn't be able to protect ourselves in that, but of course we proposed to cancel those last prosecutor reforms. Why? Both Mrs Garrido and Mrs. Artola wideage, and Mrs. Guanche, with Mrs. Sánchez and all those proposals made by us and Mr. Faraway, all these processes of modification, these congregency for Europe, because they demand money. They're asking for money to be able to solve the paradigm of the social investment here mentioned, which demands that they're placed in a different state of politics. I don't know how Mrs. Garrido makes these proposals, and how they become suspicious of the reforms which she makes and which they encourage, because the resources of the country are now reduced to such a policy. Just like that. Some have asked me to summarize, and I will (we are all tired), but I would like to mention this: for us, the monographic today has been useful. We are satisfied, especially if we agree, that we do not seem to be speaking of native politics, which demands the principal object of the treaty, and that the general object mentioned by the President is to alter, because the general purpose of this country is not to increase the stage of my existence. It's not. We all acknowledged that we are not speaking of native policies, and I believe that it has been revealed today, that we all have accepted it, and this is very positive, because in this process of transformation we are not far from it. We have also seen that the discussion has spread, and that we have been able to draw them out of them for ever. Everybody, we've brought to our desktop many measures that go beyond those abstractings of eternal alliances and direct aids. We all have, in a certain sense, agreed that we must make a way together, that what we have in our hands is a challenge for long-term, and that this demands the consensus, and that this demands the ability to negotiate, not that romance in yours. And it seems to me that you will not see it so, but it is evident that this treaty has its weaknesses, and that we spoke of them at the beginning of our discussion. A few complications, which are sometimes normal, because our discussions are connected with a stage, which is quite conceptally advanced. Let's see if we're capable, as I said before, of doing this way of action, and whether we're capable of doing this thing from word to word, because social modifications must be built together with complicity. And besides, what I like about today's discussion is that sometimes we all have a team, especially the ones who support the government don't give up today. We've had a chance to discuss the proposal, I think we've all had that opportunity. In the propositions of one and the other, we have laid out the contributions of one and the other, and have accepted them, and have changed our propositions of resolution in this respect. And that's very positive. I think it's very positive. And from now on we'll see, but Mrs. Artola generous will have the first test. Here, all those intentions which have been expressed and expressed in the treaty, especially the first test of this protection to direct or extend to those families which are most likely, will be the first examination of your political will to know that your former political will is true, the reform of the revenue. We shall see whether this will is real, whether this will is really esthetic, whether these views are here proposed, whether these social investments, like the future, are real or not real. That's where we'll have the first test. Eta nik gauza bat dzuet dango: Goizean aritu race Europara begira, Espainiara begira. Itunak Europara begira jartzen gintuen eta posetzen zuen Europako konbergentzia bat. Artolazabal salilburuak nahiago izan hitzartzean beer Espainearekin konparatzea. Eta esaten zuen "Guk hiru-lau plan ditugu, besteek lehengoa daukatenean". It is not a question of who has more or less, because the truth is that the assessments of the plan are also not to throw rockets, with which, because if the fourth is the first in a new direction, the truth is that it will be to throw rockets, and there we will see if really all that arises in the pact because it is true. And we, of course, if that is the direction, for we will make efforts to support it and to move forward. And we'll see what gives us. If we were able to maintain gaur izan dugun jarra hori, éta akordiorako, éta etorkizunerako begirada hori mantentzeko gaitasuna baldin badugu, seguroski, ba, lehen esan bezala, zoriontasuna handiagoa izango da Euskal Herrian, ondo bizitzeko politicak izango ditugu, eta, henera, seguro-seguro, natalidade ere igoko dela.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u34	Hello, good evening, all of you again. Madam Head, thank you. Congressmans, chief physician... As we were already advancing in our first intervention, for Elkarrekin Podemos the debate on demographic policies and generational relief, the conditions for a dignified life, for equality and care, the role of the family, the well-being of children and older adults is central. To that end, we reiterate that there are many problems that need to be addressed. To this end, we present a series of proposals aimed at intervening in different areas of public policy and, therefore, at trying to contribute to the improvement of the life of citizens. We will try at this time to present a synthesis of our main proposals, then already, in the reply, if that, we continue to talk. We consider, first of all, as we have already said, that it is essential to open our eyes in order to talk about the family. We therefore propose to create spaces for dialogue and participation, spaces for debate around these necessary policies of a social and demographic nature, around the Youth Act, around the future amendment of the Child Care Act, around the right of persons with functional diversity to make up also life and family projects, to open a debate that resolves the tension between employment and motherhood. We also propose that dignified life and well-being be present in this debate. We propose to talk about the rights of people today, of children, children, adolescents, adults and older adults, at the heart of politics and in their well-being as an end in itself, not as a strategy to resolve generational relief. In this regard, we reiterate that the unfair 7 % cut in social benefits and in particular in GIR should be eliminated, and that the government should increase 8 %, although we already know that this is not going to be approved. We also propose that children and adolescents whose families are at risk of being evicted, their benefits interrupted, extinguished or suspended should not be left in a vulnerable situation as their only livelihood or their only home. We also plan to create response services for families in situations of housing emergency, that the RGI can be asked at the age of 18, if we really want to give young people a chance. We call on the parliaments to implement a tax model focused on the best interests of children and adolescents, with gender perspectives and to ensure the redistribution of wealth. We propose to expand the fields of study in the area of intergenerational transmission of poverty, covert poverty. We propose that the entire population be guaranteed access to the subjective right to housing, through rent and rehabilitation, as well as specific guaranteed access to persons with functional diversity. We propose to all Basque institutions that ensure the rights and services and services of children and adolescents and their families in rural areas, because it is a reality that the abandonment of these spaces means the loss of wealth, development capacity and life that is more viable for all. We also believe that women, equality and co-responsibility are essential. As we said in the morning, talking about care is talking about feminism. Thanks to feminism, today we place care as a right of all and, most importantly, as a public responsibility. Because if we do not shield the co-responsibility between men, women and the state in the maintenance of life, families can become an element of pressure and overload, especially for women, and we cannot fail to mention at this point a feminized sector that today assumes invisible and an alarming precarious care of so many people: domestic workers. Women care professionals, not recognized by the regulations or as professionals or workers, with a special regime that should not exist in our legal treatment. To this end, we propose measures to open spaces of coexistence by placing social co-responsibility at the centre. We urge the initiation of processes to universalize equal and non-transferable parental leave and 100% paid parental leave. We call on the parliaments to designate resources for the development of existing legislation on dependency, and on all administrations in the area of social services. We propose to all institutions to develop specific service policies and services to support single-maritime families to help eliminate interrelated phenomena, such as the feminization and infantilization of poverty. We believe that children and their protection should be a priority of demographic and family policies, because they are present and future and the world we build is for girls and boys. We therefore want the principles of the best interests of girls, children and adolescents, equality of treatment and non-discrimination, equality of opportunity and equity to be incorporated into the IV inter-agency family support plan. We propose that within six months a plan be drawn up to strengthen, indeed, with resources, staff, the Observatory for Children and Adolescents, which is essential for the periodic reports that assess work on children in the Basque public administration. We believe that older people should also be a priority of these demographic and family policies, and we are witnessing a precariousness of their income, a devaluation of pensions that seems to have no end. People who support and contribute to the well-being of the family, to care, and also who may need care, take on mortgages, take on rents or open their homes, when precariousness plagues their family. The Ararteko, like the Ombudsman, has warned, yesterday, that the revaluation of pensions approved by the Government of the People's Party is so small that it may not be compatible with the Spanish Constitution, which recognizes in the law of citizens pensions that guarantee their economic sufficiency. The Basque Government must take concrete measures not to leave pensioners who do not come to an income for a dignified life at the stand. We propose means and tools to do so. It will not solve the fundamental problem, it is true, but we cannot leave our elderly people alone to political decisions that put their well-being at risk. Youth, emancipation and autonomy projects. More life and future opportunities are needed. In this sense, we have all heard of engineers, nurses, doctors or sociologists who are being trained and going to steal dishes in London because the opportunities here are scarce, because better to continue training, to improve the language... That you're here with your arms crossed. To this end, effective policies to ensure the capacity of young people to develop life projects worth living. Participation of people in the development process of the Youth Act and improvements in employment. Employment, on the other hand, is worthy and of quality, because with the precariousness, the temporality, the impossibility of conciliation, the working conditions that express the lives of many people, one cannot think of extending the family, one cannot have security and many times, one cannot have a future either. The productive model, the labour relations and the conditions under which such relations occur must be reconsidered. First, because it is necessary to have those lives that we seek and, second, because we must end the disjunctive between being mothers or parents and having professional careers. To this end, we propose that within the framework of the employment strategy, which is the backbone of public policies in this field, necessary measures be incorporated to ensure that reproductive work is quantified, ensuring that measures are put in place to promote co-responsibility between men, women, the family, the community, the market and the State in the sharing of responsibilities. We propose that ambitious targets and means be put on the table to ensure the quality of jobs through social clauses and public procurement. We propose to encourage the relieving contract, the 35-hour working day and strict control of the legality of the day, overtime, rights, duties and opportunities associated with care. We propose the implementation of a programme to monitor and monitor recruitment fraud, with special attention being paid to the feminized and precarious sectors, such as domestic workers. We believe that the health of all, especially with regard to the sexual and reproductive rights of women, must be fundamental in addressing effective family policies. To this end, we propose measures to ensure that people find facilities, whatever they are and wherever they come from, to access assisted reproduction media. We also propose strengthening policies on affective-sexual education, sexual and reproductive health, as well as reviewing and improving the accessibility of assisted reproductive techniques and treatments. Society and families free of violence, because sexist violence also makes it difficult for us to create projects of life in freedom and on an equal footing. We propose that all institutions assume as their central objective the achievement of a society free of violence against children and adolescents, implementing measures of prevention, care, protection and reparation of harm. We also propose to develop and strengthen justice services that focus on the needs of these children and adolescents. We propose that we talk about education in capitals, because investing in education at all levels of life, making the public system one that provides opportunities for all people, is essential to be able to talk about future projects. To this end, we propose measures for the Department of Education to ensure free, public, quality education since the age of zero, measures, which, moreover, we want to thank because it will have the support, which we have been able to trade with EH Bildu. We also propose measures to ensure that Basque institutions guarantee access to inclusive and quality use and also access to euskera learning. But it is not only necessary to talk about family policies, but also about going and going, about migration. Women and men who have come, young or not so young that they have had to leave by necessity or by will, who have built projects of life and family in other countries and do not return, because they do not want or because they cannot. Through the turns and turns of this globalized world, mixed, intercultural families, with more than one geographical reference space, have long been a reality in Euskadi. To that end, we propose that return policies be adjusted, because there are many people who have had to go and we must facilitate them to come back if they wish, making available to them sufficient measures for all, not only for those that are useful to us. We also propose a sensitive policy towards migrants and refugees, who give them the status of neighbours and neighbours who are, eliminating legal and bureaucratic obstacles to their day-to-day exercise of rights, and paying special attention to migrant children, who accumulate vulnerabilities that hinder their lives, development and rights. In short, talking about demography, social reproduction and family, is talking about what kind of society we have and want. It's about rights and well-being. Security and that public institutions, accompany people, protect and guarantee decent lives in order to be able to choose present and future. To that end, today we are putting on the table 51 proposals to advance towards those lives of justice, freedom and intergenerational solidarity. 51 proposals aimed at sharing well-being. We aim to solve key issues for the sustainability of life, social reproduction, equality and, in short, for families to stop being that life jacket we talked about in the morning and be one more support, not the only one, so that all people who integrate today in the future have lives that are worth living. That is why today we are going to be very critical with our vote, but also responsible and coherent, with a firm and clear commitment to the well-being of families and children. We share many of the approaches put forward by the EH Bildu Group, which is why we are going to vote in favour of all its proposals. We will also vote in favour of two motions for resolutions by the Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists, because they are interesting and necessary, but in the others we will abstain because we are open to dialogue and because we do not want to hinder any step that can be taken to improve the situation of families and children. But we are really critical of the form and consider that they are unambitious for the needs we have right now. Finally, we will vote no to 19 of the resolutions of the People's Party, on the understanding that it is on the basis of which the differences in the measures we are working on are raised. If paper endures everything, families, not always. Specifically, we would like to highlight our failure to endorse the first of the resolutions of the Basque People's Group, because we cannot, Mrs Garrido, talk about a pact for reconciliation and equality by putting at the centre the demographic challenge and the policies of children and families. A pact for equality must have women and their rights at the centre, it cannot be otherwise. We will abstain in the rest of the proposals, because, despite not having the depth or orientation we would like, we consider it a priority to maintain open channels of dialogue in this area. And in this sense, I do not want to end without reminding Mr Urrutia that he takes the floor for me, and I take his as well. I hope that this commitment to dialogue on concepts and topics will be put on the table and will be translated into something clear and effective, and will also be reflected in the day-to-day life of this Parliament and will also be reflected in the vote on today's proposals. Finally, no less important, I sincerely thank all the groups, as well as the Government, for their willingness to reach the agreements that have made it easier today for us to succeed in adopting the motions for resolutions that will be accepted. This is our contribution. Together, the Podemos is holding out his hand; you know that we are ready for interview, ready to work for people, families, and the welfare of the whole society. Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u36	Today, I think we would have to congratulate ourselves on having achieved a broad consensus in many of the resolutions, which address the main public policies in which we will have to rotate in the future in order to achieve effective policies in the areas of family, children and demographic development. In addition, as in the recently signed family pact, these resolutions are based on the profound recognition of the process of change in which family structures, family life paths are immersed, and seek to ensure that all family structures have the same degree of recognition and social protection, and to develop the conclusions contained in that pact. In this way, we are taking an important step towards institutional consensus, because together with the institutional consensus, and that of the social actors and that of the municipalities, which took place at the signing of the pact recently in January, we are going to achieve, today, here, a majority consensus, in the political sphere, in many of the resolutions that are being put forward today. And this accession was reflected in the first proposal put forward by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. I believe that this is a step far beyond, it is important, because it joins the pact that had already been reached before between the different institutions and the social partners. Because all of them must also have a political consensus to maintain those policies in the long term, in order to achieve a change in the current problems and to ensure real and effective equality of all family members in the future that is not now being achieved. Today, we have to congratulate ourselves because we have achieved, with the effort of all, a broad consensus in many of these resolutions that are going to be adopted here today, in which we have worked and to which we have devoted a great deal of time the various groups in this House. The resolutions where no agreement has been reached have been due, in many cases, because they are policies or actions that are already being carried out, and they could not appear as if they had to be started from now on, or because we believe that it was not necessary to include them, because they are included, or are going to include some of them recently, in amendments, regulations in progress..., as in the case of the income guarantee and inclusion income reform project, which we will also address and discuss in this Parliament shortly. We have wanted to focus on measures that specifically affect the family and children, demographic development, without in some cases mixing other issues. The resolutions we have tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. Our proposals are reflected in 24 resolutions, they are very broad and very cross-cutting proposals, covering different departments of the Basque Government, in order to continue to advance in equality, not only of women, but also of opportunities in the socio-economic field. The Basque Government is urged to organize social time, to advance the equality of all family members and to advance in co-responsibility. And, in this regard, we believe that the proposal to extend the non-transferable parental leave and teleworking initiatives in the field of public administration should be transferred to all economic and productive activity, including, if necessary, any relevant legal changes. Also from my group, the Socialist Group, we have attached great importance to the inclusion of a resolution which called on the Basque Government to set up an inter-institutional working group within the framework of the Basque Finance Council to analyse the possibilities of managing an integrated form of child and child benefits and tax deductions for descendants in force under the income tax for individuals, with particular attention to the effects of lower incomes, something which my group has given him very important. A wide range of measures for young people is also included. It also includes that this call on the Basque Government to promote youth emancipation, to facilitate the formation of family units and that young people may have the children they wish to have, without having to postpone the decision to have their children for economic or housing reasons. For this reason, it includes resolutions calling on the Government to promote the youth emancipation of Basque youth and to facilitate access to housing, preferably for rent, and to establish a preferential reserve of shelter for young people. Therefore, this collective will be included as a priority collective in the development of the normative decree regulating the subjective right to housing and will be revised the order of 15 October 2012, of the councillor of Housing, Public Works and Transport, of the register of applicants for housing, especially in its chapter III, where the system of baring the award of protected housing, Etxebide, is regulated. The Basque Government was also urged to develop new formulas and measures aimed at promoting youth rental, and to offer young people different alternatives to respond to their needs throughout their different life stages, formulas and measures such as promoting the development of accommodation facilities, reviewing the shared floor programme, including the possibility for young people themselves to join and present themselves to the programme, promoting intergenerational coexistence initiatives and defining an urban massoving programme. It plans, in the resolutions that are expected to be adopted today, an improvement in social, educational, health and child-care services, mediation in conflicts, in order to facilitate the resolution of conflicts that can be given within families, which, in collaboration with other institutions with competence in this regard, promotes access to a wider range of socio-educational, sporting, cultural and leisure resources and equipment for all children and young people on an equal footing, as well as benefits for the care of children in the framework of a co-responsible reconciliation, marking the general guidelines for progress. The Basque Government is also urged to improve family and child policies by establishing annual evaluation indicators in order to be able to review the progress being made and include within the Fourth Family Support Plan. Emphasis is also placed on close and ongoing collaboration with the rest of the institutions, in order to provide a broader response to the needs of Basque families. In the area of collective bargaining, the Basque Government is also urged to promote the agreement between the social partners and the trade unions of the Basque Autonomous Community, with a view to including measures to reconcile working and family life within this collective bargaining, as well as to promote a system of awards and recognitions for companies that promote plans to make working hours and telework more flexible. In the field of education, the Government is also urged to further develop educational policies in order to advance an inclusive and co-educational school system. And in this sense, the Department of Education is urged to reform the supply of haur-eskolas, a point my group has given particular importance to. With regard to the proposals of the EH Bildu group, I am surprised that a number of measures have been taken by the proposer group, as I have pointed out, to be treated and addressed within reforms that are already under way, as I have said before (such as the reform of the GIR), or because we were asked to change rules, such as the decree of early care, which is recently adopted, and that what needs to be done, in our view, is to develop it and not to do another new one again, or on the implementation of a youth shock plan, because we have one recently approved and it makes no sense to implement another, or changes, without any study, in the area of taxation. However, we have achieved a majority agreement in a series of important resolutions, such as incorporating the interest of the child in all services and services aimed at families, the commitment to an example of quality in order to be able to advance in conciliation, the manifestation of the need to address in collective bargaining a wage rise in order to regain purchasing power, or the elaboration of a relay plan allowing for a transit with quality employment, in general, and the most feminized sectors, in particular. There are initiatives that coincide with other ones included in the resolutions proposed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, such as the reference and respect for the youth law to facilitate youth emancipation. Also references to haur-eskolas or protective measures for the most vulnerable families, such as homosexual, single-parent, divorced or divorced families, or regrouped and regrouped, and couples without marriage ties or same-sex couples. We have also agreed on awareness-raising campaigns on violence against children. With regard to the People's Party, we have also managed to agree on a number of resolutions, such as establishing the system of indicators for the evaluation and monitoring of a family plan (as could not be less, because we also included one of our proposals, which expressly also referred to the importance and need of these indicators). The development of a guide for the family of the resources offered to them. Push and give content to the Family Observatory. Or concerning the promotion and promotion of families' access to new technologies. Or to develop a programme of information, dissemination of benefits, corporate social responsibility and corporate social responsibility. Or also to carry out awareness campaigns in conciliation, co-responsibility and positive parenting. And also, for example, the need to carry out a plan to prevent childhood obesity, among others. We have not reached agreement on initiatives that we believe were not part of this monograph, because they were not related to family policies or because they were reflected in other proposals that we considered to be better collected, as may be the case in the reference to tax deductions. We felt that the proposal put forward by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party was much better, in which the Government was urged to study, in collaboration with the other competent institutions, a system of financial benefits for families with children, integrating deductions by descendants of the personal income tax and direct aid granted by the Basque Government to improve benefits and advance compliance with article 10.5 of the Family Support Act 2008. In addition to the reference I made earlier to the establishment of this institutional working group within the Basque Finance Council. With regard to the proposals put forward by Podemos, I have to point out that we have also managed to agree on many resolutions, some of which go further in the recognition of general principles, of equal treatment and of non-discrimination between different fields, to go further in the promotion of co-responsibility and in the field of youth, which are also fundamental to us. And also in the development of policies in rural areas, policies to move towards a society free of violence in different areas, and measures to recognize and support family diversity. Some that have been accepted, as the benchmark to develop and favor child-centred justice services, to avoid processes of revictimism. Although it must be said that it is already being done, it seemed important to us to continue to delve into it and, therefore, while policies were already being carried out in that direction, it also seemed important to us that the reference to it should be picked up. We have rejected others because they consider that they do not fit within this monograph, and also resolutions that have a fit, not here, but within, as I said in the reference to the resolutions of other groups, of reforms or regulations that we are going to address in the near future, such as income-guarantee rent, or the decree that develops the Housing Act. For our part, we are grateful for all the efforts that all groups have made to reach a broad consensus so that the outcome of all the resolutions that are to be adopted today within this full monograph will further advance equality policies in the future, which will improve those that we have today and benefit all citizens. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u37	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. And finally, the Eubertarians represent the team. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u38	Thank you, Mr. congressman, Congressman, good evening to all. To my answer to the social organisation, I shall endeavour to be brief. As rules say, we have to use this turn to present the radical solution suggestions. I won't mention them all, but some of them, taking advantage of Mrs Sánchez's introduction too. We have 24 proposals of solutions, and, as I said in my early morning shift, they are the solutions which follow from the Basque treaty in favor of family and childhood, by the agreement of all the social institutions of our country and of the third social sector which protects the social achievements of all our institutions. And that's what we're supposed to put in value. For this reason we begin with that which contains the list of 24 solutions: "The American legislature joins the Basque treaty for family and childhood, the Basque Council of the Family signed in December, which is agreed between all the levels of organisation and many social agents that participate in it. The aim is to obtain a view of public policy which allows men to decide freely to form families, preserved by the conditions of dignity. And I, against what the Signora Cortha has said, think that the strength of the treaty has been felt these days, how proper it was to do this and that. Now we have a foundation to work, and we have a tool to turn the situation around. Plans were the same as before, but there is now a foundation where different criteria are more suitable for the present time. On the other hand, we were talking this morning about joining with the paradigm of social investment, with the philosophy that says, "before the settlement," that comes from Europe, and that is what I would emphasisize the 10-perdication of the resolution. The tenth says as follows: "The U.S.A. wants them to help you create new family units, which, if they please, will be able to have descendants, chap. IV. From the line of what you picked up on the young planet, which offers an integrated view of the pretty things you have to push about the young. That's why the Basque Congress wants to make sure they get the rights to make the law of youth, the other to do the other jobs and the housing, the men who are directed to give birth to their youth, to decrease their poverty, and to fix their lives in autonomous projects." And one of the principal criteria of our position is this: 'Esskadian children should have an equal opportunity, regardless of the families born.' A witness of this, for instance, 17th and 19th. (I have not brought them here now.) On the other hand, I should like to praise the slightly extensive degree of agreement obtained, the disagreement of agreement and disagreement. If I haven't got any data wrong, we're going to accept it from 51 to 27, between the organizations of EH Collector's resolutions 24th, and between the 34-proposies of the Polipula Party, 20. I see then that, as I have already understood Mrs. Guanche and Mrs. Guanche, they will not give ours a circle, but that it will generally be abscesssion, I think we are to-day, as if we were to rejoice, and the will shown by different groups is esteemed. I also have to say that we vote against certain resolution suggestions, as is normal. Most of the time because we couldn't accept them from a realistic point of view, or because we understood them that way. But at the same time, I can assure you that we will vote for another batch of them, though we did not see many of them as of the family-or-almost families, when we were on the move, in the daily practice of the government. The subject is very indirect, very indirect, but the impression we have had on certain subjects was that the subject was not in its own way, although the subject was very indirect. We also made our best of our efforts, I believe that Madame Kortja's confessed, because we thought it was the time, and in some way you could not go on without steps. Ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, today we have begun the future of this subject, with a long-term surveyed by the way of the agreement, we have begun a method which has a great deal of dimensions, sectors, and in a word has a great deal of character. We are going to make our way, and, as we have seen today, we shall have our differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u39	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. If it's the answer turn, I don't know if you want to be part of this shift. Garrido andrea, bai. Bost minute.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mr Urrutia, I think you have lacked ambition in this plenary. I think we had an opportunity today to put Basque families with their problems at the centre of politics, and I am certainly not satisfied. I think that from the People's Group we have made a very ambitious approach, and I regret that, of course, the final outcome of the proposals to be adopted for us is not going to be entirely satisfactory, because it does not really emphasize the problems we have as a society. We have one of the lowest birth rates, of course not from Spain, Europe, but from the world, the lowest. We live longer, that's very good. An ageing rate of the population also very high, but this entails a need for care and a health and social expenditure that must accompany the need for care. We also have another problem. It is very good that young people go to see world, to form outside, but do not return to the Basque Country. In other words, we are no longer attractive to young people, who seek other places to do their life projects and do not return to the Basque Country. Therefore, we do not have a very optimistic picture, and I think that today, because we have missed a certain opportunity, we can all settle in self-congratulation and conformism, but I think today was a full one to have been much more ambitious. And so, modestly, the proposals of the People's Party wanted to do so. I have to say, that I regret that at last (and there has been a possibility of approximation) there has been no possibility of agreeing or reaching agreement on the proposal of the People's Party for the tax check linked to the income declaration, regardless of its outcome, for an amount of 1,200 euros for each child under 18 years of age, which would add to the already existing deductions per child in the income declaration. That of course was a much more ambitious proposal than that submitted by EH Bildu, which remained at EUR 1,500 per year. We proposed 1,200 additions to the existing deductions. I believe that it is in line with what we need to move forward, I believe that the most advanced countries of the European Union have already taken steps in this direction for a long time. I believe that we, and the analyses that have been made by the governments of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and the objectives embodied in the different family plans, and especially in the latter, were oriented in that direction. But in the end, I think there has been a clear lack of political will to tackle and put in place effective solutions to the problems we have, which Basque families have. That is why we cannot be satisfied with this plenary. We are undoubtedly going to adopt quite a few motions for resolutions, but, in our view, we have missed an opportunity to really focus on the problems we have as a Basque society. Another proposal, a compromise amendment by Bildu and Podemos, is also short, because it talks about that access to the Haurreskolak Consortium as a first step towards gratuitousness and to deepen progressiveness is free for families with incomes below 18,000 euros. I believe that the proposal of the People's Party was much more ambitious. He referred to the whole of the Basque education system, we talked about progressing in the gratuitousness of the first cycle of Concerted Child Education, in the two to three years stretch, and progressing in the progressive elimination of quotas in the zero to two years stretch until reaching the total gratuity of this stage in the whole educational system. So we are not obviously going to oppose it, but I think that in relation to the proposal of the People's Party that you had on the table and that I imagine that you will have, Mrs Kortajarena, read carefully, I think that ours is much more ambitious, and no longer just more ambitious, but it faces the challenges that we have as a society. I'm finishing up, Madam President, but I think it was time for action. Mrs Sánchez was also referring to the subject of deductions, which carry a kind of proposed study, I think, Mrs Sánchez, that it was time for action. And Mrs Guanche referred to the fact that she does not like the pact for the reconciliation of equality of the People's Party. I believe that equality is a question of the whole of society, and I believe that the proposal of the People's Party referred to that question and to a need for a great pact throughout society. Well, we will vote on some of the proposals, but we do regret that this plenary, in our view, has not served to emphasize and emphasize the problems we have as a society, an ageing society, the problems we have at birth, and, of course, we do not converge with Europe. A government that likes to look at Europe so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u41	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Gather the Representative of the EH Group from there. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u42	Yeah, in short. Just to tell Mrs. Sánchez and Mr. Faraway. See, there is none among our propositions of solution, which has not affected the conditions of human life and their dignity. And so far as they act in the conditions of life, and in the dignity of persons, and as families are composed of persons, all the resolutions which have been made may be brought into this discussion of the present day.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Elkarrekin We can. You're on your way, you're on your way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u44	Okay, very short. Mrs Garrido, you have previously invited us to reflect at the beginning of your presentation. Now I want to make one for you too: about the concept of universality, which I was already telling you this morning that I think your plot quite, and also, when you talk about return policies, about the responsibility you have, more or less, for the thousands and thousands of people who have had to leave both the Basque Country and the Spanish State. Having said that, what I mentioned about the equality pact was that you cannot put demographic policies at the centre of an equality pact, because in an equality pact what has to be at the centre are women's rights. I just said that, not anything else. And to conclude, and simply because I am going with a certain degree of concern listening to Mr Urrutia and Mrs Sánchez, after all we have all agreed that we are talking about multidimensionality, and we have all agreed that it is necessary to open the mind, to look long, to dialogue... So let's stop plotting what's right or wrong in policies that have to do with the family, because the center of policies that have to do with the family, we insist, has to do with the well-being of people. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Mrs. Sánchez, yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u46	Yeah, also from the seat. I believe that all the positions have already been very clear in the various speeches. I believe that with the resolutions to be adopted today, action has been taken. These are fairly broad resolutions, which are very cross-cutting and affect many departments and many areas of different policies that need to be addressed in order to remedy the current situation with regard to the family in children in the future. I, without further ado, thank you for all the efforts we have all made, which I believe has been important. The resolutions to be adopted are very broad and touch on many subjects that I believe will be positive in order to be taken into account later in the Fourth Plan for Families. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u47	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. And finally, Lord Faraway, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u48	Yes, can you hear it? Yes, with your permission, Mrs. congressman, I'll do it from the spot. Bizpahiru gauza isateko. Lehendabizikoa, "ambition, lack of ambition". I think I've responded to this before morning. The lack of ambition, I consider it to be in the criteria that you set so far when we were dealing with family policies, Mrs Garrido. And on top of it, Mrs. Kortache and Mrs. Guanche, I'll tell you something. We spoke in the morning, in speech, in language. So, I think, Mrs. Guanche, if you understand that, you have no reason to attend to it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u49	After the discussion, we'll go to the vote. Let's vote for a mano alada. So you're all tense. Yeah? [[Berber]] Well, and silence, please, or we'll get mixed up. Please! Let's start teaming with the resolutions of the Basque Popular Group. First resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] What? Let's calm down and do it right. Well, please raise your hand. One, one hand. One enough... We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u50	2nd Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 45; the opposites, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u51	So the second resolution has been accepted. Resolution three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u52	So it's accepted. Resolution four. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u53	So it's not accepted. 5th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u54	So it's accepted. Resolution six. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the opposites, 11; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u55	So it's accepted. Resolution number seven. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 47; white, 0; abstaining, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u56	So it's not accepted. Resolution 8. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 54; white, 0; abstaines, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u57	So it's not accepted. Resolution 9. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 27; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u58	So it's not accepted. Resolution 10. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstinence, 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u59	So it's not accepted. Resolution 11. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 54; white, 0; abstaines, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u60	So he didn't accept. Resolution 12. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 47; white, 0; abstaining, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u61	So it's not accepted. Resolution 13. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 45; the contrary, 11. White, 0; Abstations, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u62	It's accepted. Resolution 14. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the opposites, 11; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u63	It's accepted. Resolution 15. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 45; the opposites, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u64	Not accepted... I'm sorry. It's accepted. 16th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u65	It's accepted. The 17th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opposites are 11. White, 0; Abstations, 54.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u66	So it's not accepted. 18th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 45; the opposites, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u67	The 18th resolution is approved. 19th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of 45, 11; white, 0; abstaining, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u68	So it's accepted. 20th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 45; the opposites, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u69	It's accepted. 21st Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 45; opponents 18; white ones, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u70	It's accepted. 22nd Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the opposites, 11; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u71	It's accepted. 23rd Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u72	It's accepted. The 24th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 45; the contrary, 11. White, 0; Abstations, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u73	So the 24th is accepted. 25th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 45; the contrary, 11. White, 0; Abstations, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u74	It's accepted. 26th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstinence, 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u75	The resolution was not accepted 26. Resolution 27. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u76	It's accepted. 28th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 27; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u77	Not accepted. 29th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 45; the opposites, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u78	Resolution 29 has been approved. 30th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 45; the contrary, 11. White, 0; Abstations, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u79	So it's agreed to the 30th resolution. 31st Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 47; white, 0; abstaining, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u80	So it's not allowed 31. Resolution. Resolution 32. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 47; white, 0; abstaining, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u81	So it's not accepted. 33. Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 27; counters, 47; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u82	Resolution is not accepted. 34. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u83	So we're keeping our resolution 34. Next, we vote for the EH Collect Group resolutions. Number one. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u84	So it wasn't allowed first Number two. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u85	The second resolution was not accepted. Resolution three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u86	Not accepted. Resolution four. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u87	The fourth resolution was not accepted. The 5th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u88	So the 5th resolution was accepted. Resolution six. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the opposites, 36; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u89	The resolution number six was not accepted. Resolution number seven. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the opposites, 36; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u90	So he didn't accept 7th. Resolution. Resolution 8. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u91	Resolution 8 is not accepted. Resolution 9. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u92	So it's unanimously accepted. Number 10. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u93	It's agreed, resolution 10. 11th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u94	The resolution 11 is not accepted. Resolution 12. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u95	The resolution 12 is approved. Resolution 13. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u96	Resolution 13 has not been accepted. Resolution 14. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u97	Accepted 14th Resolution. Resolution 15. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u98	The resolution number 15 is approved. 16th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the opposites, 36; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u99	So it's not accepted. 17th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u100	17 is approved. Resolution. The 18th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the opposites, 36; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u101	So the resolution wasn't accepted in 18. Resolution 19. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u102	The resolution was not accepted. 19. The 20th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the opposites, 36; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u103	So the resolution was not accepted. The voting can't move, please. 21st We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u104	Resolution 21 is approved. 22nd Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the opposites, 36; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u105	The resolution is not accepted 22. Resolution 23. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u106	The resolution 23 has been accepted. Resolution 24. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u107	Resolution 24 has been accepted. Now we have the transaction: The 25th of EHG, together with the 7th Podemos. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u108	Accepted 8th The transaction. Resolution 26. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the opposites, 36; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u109	The resolution was not accepted 26. Resolution 27. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u110	27 is approved. Resolution. Resolution 28. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u111	Resolution 28 has been approved. 29th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u112	29 is accepted. Resolution. 30th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u113	So, unanimously, resolution 30. 31st resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u114	Resolution 31 has been accepted. Resolution 32. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u115	The resolution is approved. 32. 33th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u116	So unanimous acceptance is 33. Resolution. Resolution 34. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u117	So it's unanimously accepted. Resolution 35. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the opposites, 36; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u118	Resolution 35 has not been accepted. Resolution 36. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the opposites, 36; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u119	So it's not allowed 36. Resolution. Resolution 37. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u120	The resolution 37 has been accepted. 38th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u121	The resolution was not accepted. 38. Resolution 39. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 38; the opposites, 36; white, 0; abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u122	Resolution 39 is approved. It's 40. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u123	The resolution was approved. 40. 41th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; Abstations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u124	41 is accepted. Resolution. 42. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u125	Resolution 42 is not accepted. 43th. This is the U.S. P.A. P.S. P.R. and the Basque Socialists with the 20th of the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u126	The transaction has been accepted. The 44th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u127	So the resolution was not accepted. 44. Number 45. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the opposites, 36; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u128	The resolution was not accepted. 45. 46th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u129	So, it's not accepted 46. Resolution. After that, we'll vote for the 51 resolutions of Podemos together. Number one. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u130	So it wasn't accepted. Number two. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u131	So it's unanimously accepted. Number three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u132	So it's unanimously accepted. Fourth. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u133	So it's unanimously accepted. Number five. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u134	So it's unanimously accepted. Number six. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u135	So, it's not allowed to take the sixth resolution. Resolution 8. Eight, seven, was a transaction. Eight. We're at 8. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 45; white, 0; abstain, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u136	So it's not allowed to be 8th. Resolution 9. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 56; the contrary, 0; white, 0; Abstations, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u137	So the 9th one was accepted. 10th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 9; white, 0; Abstations, 36.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u138	So the 10th resolution was accepted. Resolution 11. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u139	The resolution 11 is not accepted. Resolution 12. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the opposites, 9; the whites, 0; abstainments, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u140	Accepted 12th Resolution. Resolution 13. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u141	Resolution 13 has not been accepted. Resolution 14. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u142	This resolution number 14 is not accepted. Resolution 15. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u143	The resolution was not accepted. Resolution 16. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u144	Resolution 16 has been accepted. 17th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u145	17 is approved. Resolution. Resolution 18. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u146	So it's unanimously accepted. 19th Resolution. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u147	The resolution was not accepted. 19. 20th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u148	The resolution was not accepted. 21st resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the opposites, 36; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u149	It's agreed to 21. Resolution. Resolution 22. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u150	The resolution is not accepted 22. Resolution 23. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u151	So the resolution 23 has been accepted. Resolution 24. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u152	It was not accepted 24. The resolution. Resolution 25. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u153	Resolution 25 is not accepted. Please raise your hand, for otherwise it is difficult. Resolution 26. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u154	So it's accepted. Resolution 27. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u155	So it's accepted. 28th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u156	It's accepted. 29th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u157	It's not accepted 29. The resolution. 30th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u158	With a mouth on it. 31st. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u159	Resolution 31 has been accepted. 32th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 45; white, 0; abstain, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u160	So he didn't accept 32. Resolution. 33. Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u161	Resolution 33 has been accepted. 34th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u162	So he's not accepted 34. Resolution. Resolution 35. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u163	So it's unanimously accepted. 36th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u164	So, it's agreed to the 36th resolution. Resolution 37. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u165	The resolution is held by one mouth to be accepted. 38th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u166	38 is approved. Resolution. 39. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u167	The resolution wasn't accepted 39. It's 40th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u168	So it's agreed to 40. The resolution. 41th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u169	The resolution was not accepted 41. 42th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u170	So it's unanimously accepted. 43th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u171	It's okay with one mouth. The 44th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u172	The resolution was not accepted. 44. Number 45. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u173	It's okay with one mouth. 46th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u174	It's okay with one mouth. 47th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the opposites, 36; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u175	Resolution 47 is not allowed. 48th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u176	It's okay with one mouth. 49th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 38; the opposites, 36; white, 0; abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u177	Resolution 49 is supported. 50th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u178	The resolution was not accepted. Room 51. Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u179	The resolution was not accepted. Euneraries and Basque Socialists are going to vote for team resolutions. Number one. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 36; the opposites, 0; white, 0; abstainments, 38.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u180	The first resolution is accepted. Number two. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 9; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u181	Approved 2nd Resolution. Resolution three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u182	The resolution number 3 is approved. Fourth. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u183	It's accepted. Resolution. Resolution 5. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u184	The 5th resolution was approved. Resolution six. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 36; the opposites, 0; white, 0; abstainments, 38.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u185	Accepted 6 Resolution. Resolution number seven. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u186	The resolution number 7 has been accepted. Resolution 8. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u187	Accepted 8th Resolution. Resolution 9. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u188	The resolution number 9 has been approved. 10th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u189	Accepted 10th Resolution. Resolution 11. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u190	The resolution 11 has been approved. 12th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u191	Accepted 12th Resolution. Resolution 13. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u192	The resolution 13 is approved. 14th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 45; opponents 18; white ones, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u193	Accepted 14th Resolution. Resolution 15. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u194	So it's unanimously accepted 15. Resolution. Resolution 16. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u195	Resolution 16 has been accepted. 17th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u196	17 is approved. Resolution. Resolution 18. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u197	The resolution 18 is approved. 19th Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u198	19 has been approved. Resolution. Now 21. The resolution. 21st because the 20th was a transaction. 21st resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 45; opponents 18; white ones, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u199	Resolution 21 is approved. 22nd Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 45; opponents 18; white ones, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u200	22 is approved. Resolution. Resolution 23. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u201	The resolution 23 has been accepted. And 24. Resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 45; opponents 18; white ones, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-21.u202	24 is accepted. Resolution. And since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and six in the afternoon.
