ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll begin the whole meeting and begin with a minute's silence for St. Brouard. [[Silent]] Before we begin, I inform you that our fourth point has been retired. First point in theme list: "H Collect the bill of law made by the parliamentary group to ensure the right to know the rest of it. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're parted, and we're just going to argue. The side shift and the counter turn. In addition to EHG, someone else wants to participate? No. So, Mrs. Ubera, it's your word to introduce and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u1	The head of the table, Mr. Urkullu, members of the legislature, chief-at-arms, all good days. Well, today can be fun. but, seeing the judgement of Government, we may imagine that the two groups which support the Government will vote for the preservation of the Common-wealth, in order to make them know the right of the Law, and dispute. From whence it follows, that we make a good Law, to guarantee the Right of all men, that is to say, to build a column of the system of euphora, and to all of us; not only amongst the multitudes of the legislative, but also of the Common-wealths, of the Common-wealth, of the Common-wealth, and of the Common-wealth of the People, of the Common-wealth, of the Common-wealth, and of the Common-wealth of the Common-wealth, and of the Common-wealth, and of the Common-wealth of the Common-wealth, of the Common-wealth, and of the Common-wealth. What do we want with the legal proposition we've introduced? Now what we seek is to observe in the State of Guernica, and in the law of Eucharia what is received; we seek to establish a frame for it, and to find, by setting up the frame, a measure and means to promote the knowledge and use of it. In short, to know how to support it, is to guarantee the right of every citizen. This is what we seek, and this is what we want to reveal: a right. Or I shall say otherwise: what we seek is to overcome the limits or obstacles which are to be led into the resistance. Take them off. And above all, eliminate the obstacles or economic boundaries. That's what we're looking for with this legal proposal, where everything is a birthplace, a home, or a citizen's social phenomenon, that's not an indication of discrimination, and let's all have a chance of access to the cradle. Because we dream of the Basque People, but even those who do not dream of the Basque People, know more languages, know more languages... the wealth, the knowledge which it bestows.... let them have a chance to be. Yeah? Because we want to promote the knowledge and use of the Basque beyond political, public policy, public responsibility, collective responsibility, personal care. Because we want to continue building the 1950 system for our country. Because I myself am nothing, without eucharation. But this eloquent people, which is now beyond eloquence, are eloquent, because there is nothing without eucalyptus, because there is no Basque People without Euskals. We'd become pure folkflowers, we'd be a mere pile of personality, identity, ungoverned people without culture, without euphoria. Therefore, as we have political cares, let us do our work by making politics favorable to the eucalyptic. So that every citizen may have access to the rest of his life, so that he may have a chance. We therefore require nothing but the observance of the law; Obey the law. And we want to make it clear... One thing we want to make it very clear is that what we're proposing isn't a help system, just like it's up to now, or just as it's suggested to you. No, we want to guarantee a right. Of course, it must be established for this purpose; it must be measured and confounded, because public money is not infinite, and the legal frame we establish is effective, effective socially from the lyrical view, but the one must be economically economical. It's true there's been scholarships, and it's been a long time since, like, funk helps, but it's a little short of help and it's completely different. They differ in every people; they vary according to the townships. Besides, friendships have no right to know how to support it. Yeah? What we plan is, therefore, a change of concepts; We plan a change of frame, we plan a new game field... We plan a new game field. And why do we plan a new game field, a new frame? First of all, because there is no right guaranteed, and we propose and plan a field of games for cohesion, inclution. And the frame we propose is very clear, very simple: He has 11 articles and three regulations. We've taken the B2 for a reference, and note that we were planning the C1 so far. So you see what our presumption is to find harmony and search for directions. That's right, we're also planning support between C1 and C2, doing scholarships from other organizations than AKKKI, from the city. And we place only one condition: to learn in official language schools or public or homologes. It's open to all citizens, it's a frame that's open to all the people. We also plan to provide and establish special assistance for students from without. The management would take care of HABE. We ought, therefore, to take the stand in this court of Eucharium, to put aside prejudice and inertia, and to set up a steady conduct towards the eucalyptic, in order that one language should be superior to the parties. To find out who's harming him when he learns one more language? Nobody, right? And therefore we have not so much as we understand them in the Judgement, as are not intelligible; for some more than the contents of this Law are received in the Judgement; and those that seek to limit, and to condition the language; and moreover, because they have a very defensive disposition, which hurts them. The defensive attitude hurts. For example, the contempt of Education, and of Publique Administration, is received in the Judgement; which is said to be due to the Law of Education, and to the Administration to be received in the Law of Administration. We think, as it happens in other laws, that receiving them in one place does not hurt the receiving of the other; and moreover, that it contributes to have this integrated view, if it is always consistent. And, further, it may be helpful to develop this integration beyond one's small and selfish eyes. Or do we see, too, that MUDGES receive the most Judgement, some have no relation to those that have not this Law? A number of decrees are made to submit to the content of this law by what they have not. But, well, in short, and in consequence, let us cast fear away, let us set ourselves for once to speak the language which is best for us all, to seek consent, and let us all meet together, boldly, for we will gain much, and because we have much to gain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. On the other hand, I think no one. Oh, yeah? On the other side? Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u3	Well, good morning to all present. Mr. Lehendakari. Let us see, our group wants to announce that it will vote against the consideration of this bill. And why? Well, look, I'd almost tell them to get ready, because I'm afraid I have to use a really hard language. Why are we voting against it? Because we consider this law unnecessary, because this law – forgiveness, this proposition of law – we find it discriminatory, we find it is also – and forgive the word, because it is harsh – liberticated; it goes against freedoms. We find that this law is also blackmailer, blackmailer and, probably, to end, illegal. Let me expand on these issues. Why is it unnecessary? Let's see, I challenge any of you to find me a person who wants to learn Basque right now and who can't do it because he has some impediment. I challenge him; I challenge them to do so. And if they find it, I challenge them to prove that if they don't learn Basque it's because they don't know all the subsidies, the possibilities, the facilities... that currently exist normatively. For transport, for example, we will put a person who is with a very low ISEC and who cannot afford transportation to the nearest euskaltegi; well, for that reason the municipalities give subsidies... That I can't afford the euskaltegi registration, that I don't have money for books. It's just that I challenge them to find me one. And it is unnecessary, too, because let me give you some data, which is also going to increase, that is, the latest data that have come out in Basquedi.eus on enrolments and I have chosen one, primary enrolments: This year 130,932 children have been enrolled in primary school; of these 130,900, or almost 131,000, 4,800 have been enrolled in model A. – we understand, no–: 139,000, 4,800; in model B it goes up: 131,000, almost 41,000; but in model D, 98.075 children have been enrolled. That is, model D is the one widely chosen by more than half of the population to educate their children in total freedom, in total freedom, because here one of the key words we have is freedom. Then it's an unnecessary law. Unnecessary! In addition, it is discriminatory. Why do we say that? Because, although in the title we talk about law, in the articulated... – and I know it is not the time to discuss the articulated; but, of course, to take possession we will have to read it – they say that this right will only be considered achieved when the population contains a B2. It's the same as saying that until you have a B2 you're not euskaldunized. And what about all the people who speak Basque, that their life is realized in Basque and that by having a home Basque, a Basque zaharra For I say to you that among us here, there are people who come out to this rostrum and speak part of their intervention in Basque and that they would not have a B2 or laugh. That is, it is discriminating between those who are Basque and those who are not. And among those who say they are not euskaldunes because they do not have the B2, because there are many people who normally speak in euskera. I'm remembering my mother-in-law, who when I was saying, "Amatxo, are behar da 'litzaizkidake'." Well, being homemade, I was laughing. And he never knew well Castilian. But, of course, since you don't master the 'litzaizkidake eta abar', you don't pass the B2. So my mother-in-law died without being euskaldun. Great. Awesome! Why do I say she's freed? For I say this for the following: do you know that in this law it is proposed that all those who reach our community, all those who arrive from outside, will have to be educated in both languages? I'll tell you exactly where he is. It is in the integration into the education system, in article 7. But, let's see, we weren't left with the freedom to choose the model. Hadn't we stayed on that? The word is 'freedom'. Well, no, the one coming from outside... Then you talk about discrimination... He who comes from outside has no choice. No, no, no, no, You have to go to model D, and you're required to pull out a B2. I have a case, actually, that moved me deeply when we went to school. A Ukrainian child who had a magnificent record; was detected as having high capacities; 10 years old, I think he had. They put him in model D, and we were told by the teacher who spent the whole year crying, because he was a child who had an image of himself as a child of excellencies and dies. A whole year crying. They say he only managed to get his head out in mathematics, because mathematics has its own language, and he understood it. Did that kid have to be in model D?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u5	The following year he disappeared from school. I don't know what happened to him. Sure, a whole year crying. And in that sense, this law is freed. And then it's a blackmailist law, because, lehendakari, I have to address your group and, fundamentally, you as chief executive. I do not know if you have read the final provision, but it is a play: "This law will come into force once published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country on the day on which the next General Budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community are approved". As this doesn't come out, you won't have budgets. This is blackmail: it's a law that says, no, no... This will be approved but will have to be published in the same bulletin approving the next general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community. And then, look, I'm already sorry, but it's probably even illegal, because there's another point, 6.2, that gives me chills. They say: "At the end of the compulsory education period, the entire student will have to accredit in both Basque and Spanish level 2 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages in order to obtain the degree of Graduate in Compulsory Secondary Education". I mean, whoever doesn't give the B2 we don't give the title of ESO. This has to be illegal; I haven't consulted it, but come on... I can't believe that if you've finished all your subjects well, if you don't get the B2, you're denied the title of ESO, you're denied the title of ESO. And look, Mr. lehendakari, I'm sorry; I understand you're in a very difficult position...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u6	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u7	... But this is blackmail, because, in addition, another of the provisions that it does is to say that everything that we have regulated so far in Basque is erased. It is another final provision: "It is authorized... All provisions that contradict the provisions of this law, whether of the same rank or of lower rank, shall be repealed." I plummet to 40 years of effort, to start from scratch from this law. And now I am going to address the Socialist Group: are you going to swallow for this? Because one of the things you did, which I believe everyone, nationalists and non-nationalists, applauded, was that, when a person finishes ESO having attended D, he no longer has to prove anything. Well, that'll get him out of the way. And you will tell me, and it is true, that next comes the opinion on the approval of the processing of this law, on the demonstration of the Government's view of the takeover, which is positive. And you here make an amendment to the whole: there is practically not a single point in the law that is presented that is not amended in that positive opinion, and you will tell me: Well, you can talk about everything. Man, you can't talk about everything. I mean, you can't talk about denying a child the title of ESO because it doesn't give level B2. There are things, basic concepts, which we cannot discuss, which we cannot discuss. You would not discuss whether women are inferior or not, or not discuss whether there are superior or inferior races, or we would not discuss the death penalty. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There are things that are not discussed and cannot be discussed about whether a child, who has completed the ESO but who has not given level B2, can be denied the right to his or her degree. Of course, you with 'all things can be discussed', in your opinion you make an amendment to the whole, but you say let's talk about it. Can we talk about destroying what we've built in 40 years? I remind you, uh, if this law comes into force, everything that goes against this law, everything, is repealed. And, practically, here they repeal everything that has been done so far, among other things what was approved in the López legislature. But you can talk about everything, let's talk about whether men are inferior to women or not, why not? Look, about... I remember when the lehendakari Ibarretxe said 'why not, what's wrong with it'. That now Mr. Egibar has translated to 'who does harm?' And what did Mrs. Ubera also take: 'nori kalte egiten gave?' That is not the question to be answered: why not be answered; why not be answered, in what improvement. The question is not to whom it hurts, but to what improves what we already have; that is the question. The question why not or who does harm, is the question of a child who is dedicated to tearing up a very expensive toy thinking that 'well, then we'll put it back together'. No, no, we have to go forward, not backwards, and so the question is, what's the improvement? How does it benefit all of us? That's the question. Really, I from Mr Ibarretxe's 'why not', which has now been translated into 'who does harm' adopted by Mr Egibar and Mrs Ubera, I say: but, let's see, what fallacy, if those are not the questions. The questions are 'how we go forward', 'how we get better all our lives', not 'who does harm'. Well, doing harm, this hurts a lot of people, Mrs Ubera, among other things people who don't take out a B2 and finish the ESO and we refuse to give it the title, because these gentlemen are willing to speak and are willing to speak for the blackmail that you suppose you say: and this law will be approved in the same bulletin as the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community. Which is the same as saying: if this law is not passed, there are no budgets here. It's one thing I haven't seen in my life, I haven't seen in my life, the truth. This law will follow its procedure and will be published when it touches, and the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community will follow its path and, when adopted, will be adopted and published. But do you realize, Mr. Lehendakari, you've had the two together? This is the law of blackmail and, Mr Lehendakari, it does not belong to me because I am a humble parliamentarian on foot, but I must say that you are subjecting yourself very much to what the EH Bildu group has to say. That's a lot! In this, in the Urkullu Plan, a lot of things are coming out. A lot, a lot... Yeah, yeah. We had an Ibarretxe Plan, and now we're going to have an Urkullu Plan.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u8	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u9	... but that is much worse than the previous one, because from the previous one, from the first draft, they removed the nationals and citizens, and now it has reappeared, that Eusko Alkartasuna had put it in, and now it has reappeared. So, I ask you please, Mr Urkullu, to shake off the blackmail that you are being blackmailed, probably part of your party, but also these gentlemen, and do not dare to discuss this law, do not dare to discuss this law. Let's see, and then back to this law, the last thing now. This law is not intended to solve a problem that is detected. Look, the Education Committee has a huge merit, because last spring 20 or 25 specialists were summoned, more or less, in the situation of the Basque country, to come and talk to us. I tell you that we have merit because it was a very long thing and we all attended – at least this member of the committee attended – with great attention. What's the problem with the euskera? And you know it. And it's just that the euskera is not spoken on the street. Or you don't talk as much as you should talk, and that's the real problem we have, and that's not fixed by denying the title of ESO to the children who haven't given the B2. Because now there are countless children who have, who know, come on, who reach B2 and use it partially. Because we're a bilingual community. And now Mrs Ubera was telling us: no, because we want all Euskal Herria to be Euskaldunized and I don't know what. But we're a bilingual community! That this is what you're doing is expelling bilingualism. He is expelling him, and what begins as in the title carries the right word, in the end it becomes obligations. Requirement to take out the B2 in Basque to give you the title of ESO, although in other subjects you have had fantastic ratings. Obligation for groups supporting the Government to process and try to pass this law, because it will be published on the same day as the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community are published. And, look, now I'm gonna get on top of the stage. Not all of them, but here there are people who live the Basque affair with a level of anguish, which I feel solidarity with them for what they suffer. I remember some parliamentarian on this side for whom I personally feel a great affection that, when I told him, but is that Basque is a foreign language in many areas, in many areas of Euskadi?, it was as if I had stabbed him in the heart. Of course, the fur that we have in the Incarcerations is Avellaneda fur. It's not Urrizti's or Urrialde's or whatever. In the Incarnations for centuries, no euskera was spoken. So, the euskera there is a foreign language. The same happens in large parts of Álava, and this is a reality, and this society has made a tremendous effort, not only to recover the euskera, but to implant the euskera in many areas where centuries and centuries and centuries have not been spoken of. But those people who live with so much anguish the euskera and what is being lost and who are people of good will... "But there are many people who really feel it with great anguish, and I would tell them not to worry, that Basques are always going to be; I don't remember how many times I have heard you say in this rostrum to Mrs. Ubera, I have heard you say: "Ez badago euskara, eske ez dago Euskal Herria edo horrelako gauzak". Then also another very funny thing that wants to teach Basque to all 'etorkinak' I've heard it several times, Mrs. Ubera... I say and say, but please, but don't worry, we'll survive. And you know why we survive? Because we are not a linguistic community, we are not a linguistic community: no modern country, no democratic country, bases its cohesion and identity on a language. That I know in Switzerland are spoken three languages (Italian, French and German) and are a single state; and that I know...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u10	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u11	... In Germany and Austria, the same language is spoken, the same German, and that is not why they are a single state. We are not a linguistic community; we are a legal-political community, that's what we are, and that's what gives us our rights and our obligations, being a legal-political community. The language is an instrument, not an idol and, of course, our group is not willing to sacrifice to that idol; it is not willing to sacrifice to the 4,871 children who this year have enrolled in model A, in exercise of their freedom. He is not willing to sacrifice to that idol the 41,089 children who have enrolled in model B and who may not reach B2. He is not willing to sacrifice to that idol the 98,075 children who have enrolled in model D but who may not get the B2. He's not willing to sacrifice all those euskaldun zaharrak So, as I say to you, we consider that this law if anything does is to harm the euskera, because it throws away all the 40-year-old work that has been done. It harms the euskera, because it sweeps and says that everything that goes against this law will be nullified. And against this law goes almost everything, among other things, what was passed in Mr Lopez's legislature. And besides, we think it's not even legal: I don't think you can deny a child the title of ESO because he hasn't given the B2 in Basque... It just doesn't fit in my head; I haven't consulted him. If you, the parties that support the government and, above all, the Socialist Group – which I do not understand what it paints here, but, come on, forgive me, that must be my thing – yes, they say you can talk about everything, I will tell you one thing: about whether we are free or not we are free you can't talk about blackmail and you can't talk about it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u13	If it wasn't serious, I'd laugh, but it's very serious, Bengoeche. I didn't know you followed Casado, you came here today casadism. I know your arguments are not useful and you pass by argument, but I'll try to place some arguments on the table. It seems to me that the arguments you gave me are, as far as I can tell, fascist arguments. And you have tried to underestimate the subject of today, but knowing and considering what it is that is the Canopular Party's career, we know what it is at the bottom of this discussion, for the Popular has and his sole aim is to reduce the fundamental rights, liberties, and democracy. And because the laws you put in force were only instruments of this kind, and only to see what you have done with LOMMCE, and what you have done with so many other laws. So here are those who sacrifice the people and their disciples. It's you, Mrs. Bengochea. I know that you deny the Basque Country, and that he is an enemy to you, because you know better than anyone that there is no Basque people. You often know it better than all of us, and you develop your motto and its purpose very well. What we plan, and what we have already stated, is this: The fulfilment of the legislative, that is to say, the state of Guernica, which you so loudly proclaim, is the fulfillment of the Basque Act, which we plan to penetrate into freedom; it is an instrument to penetrate into the inequality of choice; What we plan is, therefore, to penetrate into democracy and to advance in democracy. This is the simple plan for today. And the last regulation you read, what does that mean? I don't know, maybe the translation is wrong, but what we've written about it is: Once we accept this law... When he publishes it on the bulletin, it affects the next budget. So what's clear is that this year's budget doesn't affect it. So what we're talking about today is the act of rights, and we take all the citizens equal. For us, this is fundamental, which is not questionable: this we cannot dispute. All the citizens, whatever their birthplace, their home, their social and economic status, are all the same, and they must all be respected... the rights and rights must be secured, and every one has a choice and a right to know how to support himself, that he may have access to the rest and to the rest. Everybody. Basque is our language, natural. And I'll tell you one thing: this people is no longer vilingue, it is not eloquent. This town is eloquent. We already have more than two languages in our country, and all deserve our confession and respect, but the eucatitude, which is our natural and official language. And it is not only that we should love it as an inheritance, but that we should keep it and be the future, and we must place it in the centre, and it is a right and we must develop it. Yes... That's what we're talking about. But what is your goal? What kind of society do you want, or what citizens? What you're looking for... and with the laws which you accept, you make a distinction between the citizens, and you develop discrimination. It seems as if you wanted to build societies composed of innocent citizens: The less the citizens know, the better for you. Well, not for us. The more the citizens know the language, the more they may not feel themselves eroscal, the popular euscal, perhaps I don't know where they are from, but the more they know a language for you, the more they ought to be rich. That's a plus... It's a plus, it's not a remover. It's a plus, it's all ideology. The more you know, the better: We will have more cultured citizens, we will have more clothes, which gives us all the more opportunity to develop an advanced society in the most comprehensive sense. There are, then, some things which you have proposed, which cannot be disputed, and are ridiculous. And I'd laugh if the subject wasn't serious, but the subject is very serious. And I have nothing more to say, and I don't even know why I got in to replicate him. I only mean that we only demand the execution of the law: the equality of choice, cohesion, inclusion, democracy... That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. When you answer, Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mrs Ubera, I will answer you: do you know why perhaps my speeches, at least, try not to weigh too much in the mood of this House? I'll tell you why. Because I do not want this House to become what we have seen that other cameras have become in Spain. But you have already taken the first step by saying that my arguments are fascist. I would never say that to you. That's the difference between you and us. You've already started taking the first step; you're already going after Mr. Rufián. I'll never... Moreover, our group, when it defends a position, tries to do so in such a way that no one personally feels hurt, and I think you have good proof of that. But you're already starting to point with the fascist finger. For which, by the way, I call for the president's protection. We're already fascists. Good. We've been called many things, but we've already started that way, we've already started... And you ask me what kind of society I want. For I want a society in which people are free, free to choose, free to choose within what appears in the normative and legal frameworks. I want a society where children don't have to take out the B2 to receive their compulsory secondary education title. I want a society that does not discriminate and does not force immigrants to study in both languages, which they too can choose. I want a free society, where we recognize the great effort that this society has made freely, not necessarily, freely, to regain bilingualism, bilingualism. I want a society that is not losing the treasure that we also have of our second language, that as you know, the Castilian for you, that as you know, at the last School Council, the President told us that you are detecting misspelling, miss syntax, lack of vocabulary in Castilian... That has been detected by the Basque School Council. It's a different case, but as we go along the same path: in Catalonia there are already areas where Spanish is not spoken well. The news and admission came out yesterday. We're on our way. That's where we're going. I want a society where the euskaldun zaharras I want, our group... "Forgive me to use this kind of majestic plural," I want, "we want a community where the one who leads that community, the lehendakari, pacta, not to impose anything, but to achieve a better life for all of us." That's the community I want, and I'm telling you it's a mayo plural: that our group wants. And we will continue to do so, and I already know that your group tends, very easily, to corner and eliminate the one who does not think like you, calling him fascist, using methods that fortunately no longer are used, but laughing at him, ridiculed him and calling him fascist, and saying that his thought is fascist. But that's what we're used to. What we were not used to is that the Basque Nationalist group would laugh at them, do not defend the dignity of all who are here and of our arguments, because this is the place to put arguments, not the place where they are called fascists to those arguments and ridicule, which we have not done with you. Nor were we used to the Socialist Party swallowing, we do not know why, with this bill, which we think... I've told you before step by step. But I tell you, keep laughing, because our group is not going to answer the same. I hope that all the interventions of our groups will not weigh personally or offend anyone, and that is the line we are going to follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u16	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Mrs. Bengochea, you're asking for an anchor. I'll tell you that we're here to use the words we want: He didn't call you a fascist, you said they were fascist arguments. Then you must be separate. I'm talking to you. That must be distinguished. First, I don't like the word I like most; I don't like to be used by anybody, but everyone knows how to use his arguments to defend his subject. So I'm asking you all to have appropriated words, to be adequate, but I'm asking you all because it's for the good of the Chamber. [[Berber]] You don't have it, no... I think it's clear that there's a discussion. Is there anything else? What things? What thing, Borja?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u17	...complain of what I consider appropriate. Neither you nor anyone is going to make me stop that right, as a parliamentary spokesman.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u18	Borja, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u19	Madam President, beyond the consideration that Mrs De Bengoechea has given you and you have responded.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u20	You don't have the word about this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u21	Beyond this I want to... I want to tell you; let me explain, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u22	Please, Borja, I told you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u23	I find it really difficult to exercise a parliamentary right when even the President does not allow me to exercise it. Beyond the fact that other Members of Parliament do not allow me to do that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u24	No. A ver, Borja, Borja. Mr. Sémper...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u25	Let me explain, and maybe it's not appropriate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u26	Mr. Sémper, please, Mr. Sémper. De Bengoche spoke on his tour, the discussion is over, no, no...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u27	Senora presidenta.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u28	You've got anything to complain about because the discussions are bad, and whatever you want to do, you can go to the table. At this moment, we're going to the vote. No, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u29	Madam President, it seems relevant to me what I am going to say; let me express it to you. It has nothing to do with what Mrs. Bengoechea complained about.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u30	Well, we'll have to talk another time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u31	It is related to the point, which I think is relevant because it is repetitive. What I want to say, Madam President, is that your calls to order are hardly received by this House, when there are members of the Bureau who have the responsibility to maintain at least impartiality in gestures, laughter and comments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u32	Well, please tell us...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u33	And there is a member of the table, specifically Mr Iturrate, who keeps making a constant mockery of the interventions, making gestures and scarecrows... And the members of the Bureau have an obligation to maintain seriousness and rigour, if you will not hardly be able to order and call the rest of Parliament to silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u34	Please, Mr. Sémper, I've called you for the first time in order. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u35	And that's good because it's continuous, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u36	Borja, Mr. Sémper, that's enough, it's over, you don't have a word. You don't have a word... End of discussion, we're going to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u37	So the bill's approved. Next, vote. Mr. Ariza, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u38	Thank you, signor, ma'am, to see if we're capable of matureness, seriousness, and convictions, to make a little difference in the manner of taking notice of a tramite and accepting a law. I think it's important to know that what happened here today doesn't happen again. I'm sorry that when you're arguing about the eucalyptic, it's a pity to me to create experiences*. It's not our style, it's our social euscal style. It has been agreed, in the first place, that it has been a vote of consideration, and to us it is very useful for us to have brought this law here, and at least to discuss it, in order to invade the amendments, and, if possible, to have a law to improve and have a law. This is democraticly salutary. On the other hand, the social euphony has always been on the most important steps that have been taken around the eucalyptus. First of all, in the State of the Eucaia of the Equiesa in the State of the Eupola; secondly, the Basque Act of 1982; thirdly, in the progresses given in education; making public eucalyptic schools, we participated in the origin of HABE, and we even participated in the arrangement of the Perfilla*, the reception of the eupulics, the reception of the euscalists, was made as president by Mr. López. After all, I think we have contributed to many things; not only to encourage ourselves to rest, but to keep up with an important part of our personality, always-always free, and I am proud that I am a Basque in that role of social euscanists, and a stuccantist. That doesn't mean we're putting him to rest. We have been in favor of considering this legal proposition, especially because we agree on the basis and the purposes of it, because there are many things in the government program which are present, because it strengthens the paper of the Basque, and above all because it is a law which offers it in equality or opportunity. Look, in our strategic agenda, at the strategic book of the eupka, there are a lot of things that appear in this law. I think that planning, that intention... that the establishment by a law is very useful. That's why we voted for it. To attain the Eusara in equality, as an instrument of cohesion, and, as I have said before, as a choice. Why not anyone who comes from outside, or anyone who lives in Basques, who doesn't know the nerve... this opportunity of learning to support is given in obstinacy? That makes us the same. So we're taking advantage of that holiday unit. Why not? We do not see language as division or division as an instrument, but as a union. And we've always played the eucament with this purpose. We have, therefore, a terrible defence there, and the fundamental use of it is, to know first, and once, that the consideration of this law is of service to us. From now on, we'll have a chance to introduce the amendments, to discuss, to improve, to improve, but always and always, to know that we're a part of our personality and culture, not to create relations and quarrels between us, to put more wood into that fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u39	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Together, Podemos, madam, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. All of you counselors, members of the legislature, good days. Well, my first words are the words of Kollo Michelen, and the great orator Koldo Machelena used to say to us: "The war is too weak to take it as a weapon." That's all I'm gonna say. Do that reflection. On the other hand, if we examine the sociogitistic polla, we see that evolutions have been in the knowledge of the support of the people; About 25 years ago, we had a 24-year-old population that talked of eucalyptics, and today, luckily, 33% of the world speak and understand, they understand a 19th percentage of it. It seems that there has been an evolution, and that we've made a few steps forward. Nevertheless, language policy has not fulfilled all aim, on the one hand, because we see that the students do not, when they have finished their studies, master both languages, at least in practical knowledge. And on the other hand, in the sphere of the euphoration of the adults, learning to resist is not a universal right, which is what we want to receive as universal right. In order to learn the economic aids of the grown-ups, they have been, but they are not homogeneous, they differ not in proportion to the township, and therefore in order to alter this inertia, but, above all, to ensure the right of knowing it, and to increase the common competency of the citizens of Eroscala, that is to say, this law-produce, which is to-day, that is to say, the tendency of the action of the eucation, is necessary. I'd like to mention another area and the Administration. We know that the regulator of the eucalogy in public administration is out of date, and consequently is not adapted to such changes as are necessary. That's why we think it's all right to adapt to this regulation. In our program, we'd lead free activity, we're defending freeness from the start, and we've introduced different enterprises to guarantee free activity in this legislature. Our last act or budget will be the amendment: We propose until we have the EGA or C1, to appeal to 600,000 dollars to learn the gift. If there were any political wills, it seems to us that the right of education and the right of education of the people may be restored in 2019, without any difficulty. After what I said, our vote for today is understandable. Today, to add to your work, we put a small contribution on the table. We have more suggestions, and tomorrow the Euscara will begin. If you think of it tomorrow the Euscart will seem to begin tomorrow, we'll be much less careful than we'll ever have. In my opinion, we need more ears to be successful, and I am sure, with freeness, that proportion may be balanced in the next editions. That would be good news for our language. Let us therefore consider whether we are able to confirm eascalism, diversity, equality, and mutual agreements. We'll continue to work in the language policy, looking for agreements, and you know we'll always be ready to get improvements from the rules of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Euneraries, Mrs. Guruga, are your words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u42	Thank you, Mr. President, and good morning to all. Our team will favor this legal proposition to guarantee our knowledge of its support, and we will do so from the beginning of the government program and also from the strategic book of the euca. After all, the most important thing in our engagements in the government program is to increase and improve the number of those who know how to keep it, and to increase it in proportion as they go to B2, in order to increase the endurance of the seniors. And it is in this flux that the distinction of the political language endeavors to penetrate into this law, and to extend, at the same time, the passive capacity of the citizens of over 40 years old. And for this purpose we ought to give to the people the choices they require, which we ought to give them, and to give them such rights, not to impose upon them, but without them. After all, because the cradle needs a critical mass if we want the use of language to grow and expand, and it's essential to increase the number of speakers in all countries, and their ability to be better. And for that, we believe that we must proceed in the system's working and in a stable financial process by giving us the necessary steps, and, as I have already mentioned, because we mention it at the same time in the strategic agenda that we want to be more of the eucalyplicans among those of the strategic purpose. And I didn't think it was the topic I was going to repeat to-day, but the state of '79 indicates that it's the official language of our country, not at all extraseval or anything else, and that the people have a right to know the Basque Act of 82. And this law plainly invented in the resurrection of the eucaia, and in the strength of the eucalyptus, which I think we ought to value it. Eighty. it has been the sole object of the two official languages of our country to achieve a state of equality between the two official languages. And that's what we have to do, Mrs. Bengochea. for it is the same language as the weakest, and we must acknowledge it so, and we must, unfortunately, do these positive actions. I don't think it's going to be angust. I think our language unites us in this country, and I'd say it's an example today's Euscope. I think that social activities like the Basques unite us, and in such a case we must seek cohesion. Today, what EH Collect has brought in this bill of law, he's asking you to rule on that road to the free release he's made, so we see him well and we're glad to be able to adapt a little bit to that position he was at first, or ask him to come to that grade of B2 because we believe in it. And it's true that we won't accept the text as a whole, but we think it's a rule we need, that there's a theme that can be regulated in the work that's doing fun, and we'll continue that way because our party has a firm commitment to the development of active language policies. Let us endeavour, therefore, to make a great deal of it. I think that language, if our language, requires anything, because that is what it is, should have a conformity between them, and have even a language for cohesion. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. Second point on the subject list: "The Moment, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Blanco de Angulo EH Collectors, Gipuzian and Emergentia of Arbataba, concerning the co-ordination of the Ostrosis. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mrs. Blanco, to introduce and defend the demands.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u44	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. The object of this argument, which we are now discussing, is, after a few days ago, to the chief physician of the Medical Department, to end with the worries and doubts that remained unsolved. A couple of weeks ago, we asked Mr. Darpón about his intention of joining the co-ordinational centres of the agency, and, in fact, not only did we get much information about the history of the female sex. One may think that the key of this motion is trifling, that it is, after all, only the uneasiness of some workmen, but it is not: it is not only a matter of the working of females, nor of the least importance. It is not a dispute whether two or three centers are necessary co-ordination. The substance of our motion goes beyond: After all, what we have in hand is 24 hours, 365 days, any time, at any moment, at any moment, at every hour, at every hour and hour... and in it there are several factors which enter into play, as we observed in the exposition of our interpelration; Whether to integrate with the security department; whether to share the computer platform, whether or not to know the reality of our own country; whether the homes are suitable or not; whether to co-exist protocols for support, whether or not the roles of professionals working in these centres, whether or not, within which technical resources are sufficient; whether or not, with the SOS-Ds and other emergency agencies, they must be integrated with the rest of the protocol, and whether the population is more accessible or not, and whether the conditions of the division, or not, should be studied, and the conditions of the administration, and the other conditions of the administration. And the question is whether we believe in true integration, yes or no, we do, we do... But one thing is that they are integrated, and that they work together. Like I said, we believe in a real integration that doesn't fit today, but we suspect that what doesn't believe is the safety effort itself. Borders, for instance, keep three centers. Or if we have to integrate, why aren't the firemen in those centers? We want to think that behind all this movement, there will be no intention of keeping sanitaries in the service of the Security Test, because they include data introduced by professional sanitarian sanitarian professionals in a computer medium system, and not in the Osapath. We must, therefore, explain many doubts before any change or movement about the center coordinaters can be proposed. And since I have mentioned the Euskarri computer system and the technologies that are used from these centers, it is interesting to clarify that, although it is a good computer tool, it is not very difficult for that system to fall, I also said it in my inquiry; the last time, I think, two weekends ago. And when that system fails, the Zutabe tool is used, because there is no other tool and because, even though it is a much older program – it was implemented in 1996 – it is much safer. So much so that the Ertzaintza power stations never passed to the Euskarri and continue to operate with Zutabe. Therefore, it would also be interesting to ask whether, in view of these situations, there is any common contingency plan between SOS-Deiak and Emergencies to deal with any problems that may arise. We don't think so. On the other hand, let us remember that the counselor told us that the factor of knowing the environment is not important, because technologically it is solved, and we also have serious doubts. I don't know if you remember the example we set in the debate about the interpellation on the possibility that in different municipalities or cities there are streets with the same name; I won't set the same example, because I don't want to bore you and I already told you, but what was clear, in our opinion, is that the knowledge of the environment facilitates a faster attention, a better attention, because, moreover, it is easier to know the spaces and the center closer than that of the three herrialdes. On the other hand, as I have remarked before, it is very important that in many cases there should be protocols to maintain them, and I shall again turn them into three distinct cases to the desktop. Sindrome, the guinea-pig, that is to say, the heart, the inhalation. Time is the key. There's only one protocol for the whole member of the community, but it's not meant to be a member of the community. It was born with a heartfelt heart through the work of a lot of professionals for members of the Osa. When it was all done, the Osarides and the Department did it. Yeah, there's a complete protocol. Code Ictus. In this case, there is no protocol combined for the whole member of the community. I repeat: from different hospitals have been delivered different messages to the centers. Sometimes, since the symptoms start, it's 8 hours to activate them, and sometimes 24 hours. With so much difference, will these peculiarities be better managed from a single center? Organ in the ascetic, or organization of patients with pathological terminals. In this case, we must say that a few conflicts have changed in the past few years: In the first case, times handled are very important, and a formidable degree of co-ordination is indispensable knowledge of professionals. In the second place, it's important to know the patients who are in the program and who participate in the circuits when a patient is offered to die. And the chief physician said to us, wordfully: "El porcentera de trasplantes que salen del donante asceticia es menor del 15 percent." Well, the person who gets the kidney, liver or lung is not interested in a percentage, because whoever gets it is 100 percent. The chairman of the dispute before told us that what I was telling here was what other people tell me. You're wrong. Between these data, there is a contrast job, there are a lot of interviews with different professionals, there is a search for information... I don't know if all this work will be useful to change your opinion, but at least I'm sure it will be useful to increase my knowledge, because thanks to the preparations of these matters, it's learned and appreciated. As has been remarked at first, EH Collect believes in actual integration, but I repeat: This does not mean that there must necessarily be criteria for the co-ordination of the centre after the integration. And we're very sure that's what it was about, not now, but that's what it was. And if it is necessary to examine the state of indulgence, let him examine it, but the end must be to guarantee the quality of this service, in order to give attention, in order to improve it, not to create tumults or conflicts. And if there is to be a study, let him do it together with the working people there. It is essential that those who work in this service bring their experience of what they see daily: the difficulties they face every minute in doing their job well. We must listen to their proposals, we must take them into account; because, if not, any study that is intended to be carried out will not be entirely reliable. Because also Mr. Darpón, reviewing the inquiry, made a statement that left us a little worried. He wondered whether, among the reasons for changing the model, the integration of different professionals versus the number of centres and working conditions should prevail. We say: why do we have to put some criteria before others? Why? Is it not possible to take into account all these factors and many more, as I have said throughout my speech? I'm sorry. [[Serves and drinks water]] We say it again. We believe that our modern model can be improved, and at its time Emergence started the center of the center by the project called the Centan Center. It's been a slow day, because they were planning different roles, too, I mentioned that. On our side, seriously, we are prepared to recapitulate it, and to examine the deeper transformation of the centres. Let us examine it, as we express in the medium, but this study is necessary for us to share. And we must know this study in the law; yes, of course. But in the meantime, let's leave them as their center coordinaters are. Before any planning is made, the centers shouldn't be moved. Can't start house from roof. That's exactly what we're asking you to do in half-correction we signed. We've come to an agreement, all of us. We hope that, together with the Podemos team, protecting this middle-way, but I assure you that we will wait with great interest for this study, and that it is settled in the terms which we agreed to, since we have heard from the chief physician that it was because we have clearly intended to unite with those centres of which you were going to be merry. He lost to himself whether there was need for three different centers. We're asking you to think it over. During the days of things, when it provides the opportunity to work as a single virtual technology center, whether it is logical to unite physical places, so that the actual knowledge and the various factors of the world may compromise. It's nice of you. It's kind of nice. the attitudes of the various groups we have received in this case, the readiness to arrive at the contributions and agreement of the various spokesmans. The agreement we have signed is useful to us for the moment, and we hope to accomplish in the terms they are in. Like I said, we're going to keep it that way. And in the end, as the Euscare begins tomorrow, we would like to ask you to call us at the moment of naming the headmaster of the emergency. for, as it is said, it is a matter of indifference, and it is a matter of indifference to us to consider, that it is an open mouth. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Passing to the teams who are running the corrections, the Euskal popular, Mrs Garrido, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Well, this debate is due to the concern or concern among the citizens about the announcement of the possible unification of the emergency centres of Osakidetza, distributed in the three historical territories, in a single territory, in Bizkaia, and specifically, to concentrate them in Txurdinaga. Kezka hau, albisteak ikusita, nabaria izán da, éta nik uste dut, alde horretatik, debate your edo eztabaida you have the intangible of the Honetan moment. At the last full monitoring session, this group addressed an inquiry to the Health Adviser regarding the situation in Osakidetza and the management of certain issues in Osakidetza, where we made a special mention of the issue of emergencies and the Osakidetza emergency service. Emergency services include the set of regular operational services that, on a permanent basis and with specific functions, intervene where an emergency occurs; that's why we talk about 365 days 24 hours. These emergency status services, emergency services, are shared in situations of emergency, which is why we can say that they are important and important services. Nobody escapes, therefore, that we are talking about important, essential services... We are talking about services that intervene in emergency situations, in vital situations, in situations in which we are also talking about saving or not saving a life. And, therefore, the innate characteristics of these services are the immediacy, the speed in the response and, also, the taking of the appropriate decision in relation to the appeal or the corresponding decisions to be taken. The emergency service is made up of the Osakidetza Emergencies, the SEIS of the municipalities and deputies, the Ertzaintza and the emergency and meteorological care. At the time, he was bet on a joint resource model between Security – at the time Interior – and Osakidetza. Eta Larrialdi-emergentziak esan dezakegu system koordinatu bat her, eta hor koordinatzen say the administration deberdinek dauzkaten errekurtsoak horrelako egoera batan weretzunak emateko. Therefore, when we talk about the emergency service, we talk about a coordinated system of resources, of different emergency resources, which must undoubtedly act in an effective, orderly and coordinated way. The emergency coordinator centres were established in 1983, and then bet on a model of three centres in each of the territories, and we believe that at the time it was a good decision. Yes, it is true – and as the adviser explained to us in response to today's questioning of the origin of this motion – that at the time a single telephone platform was established, to support the Basque emergency system, which includes the set of responses, procedures, resources, protocols... which exist in the various public administrations throughout the territory of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. I'm finishing up, because I think there's an agreement and it's a very clear agreement about the duties we put on them... or what we urge the Basque Government to do on this issue. I do want to thank the availability of all groups and, in particular, of those groups that support the Government: the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. And also having taken part, finally akordioan part hartu dutelako azkenean, eta horrek egiten du azkenean akordio hau aho batez hartuko her. We propose in our amendment the need to carry out a study, a study prior to any decision being taken, and in this regard we are pleased because the realization and urging the Department of Health – the Basque Government better said – to carry out this study, for it has been an approach that has been reflected in the compromise amendment, as I say agreed by all the groups. We believe that it is important that a study be carried out before any decision is taken, and that, as a result of that study, which has to give us a specific X-ray of how the emergency situation is in Euskadi, steps be taken to improve this service. It is a matter of urgency that we have to do something about it, and that is why we have to do something about it, and we have to do something about it, and we have to do something about it, and we have to do something about it, and we have to do something about special reference to measures that have to do with such rapid, immediate attention... measures that have to do with the resources available at this time, measures that have to do with the need, where appropriate, to increase resources and technical and human resources At this moment, and also measures that have to do with such prompt and immediate attention. We are therefore pleased, because these points have been taken up in the compromise amendment and I also think it important that we have incorporated into a specific point that this process, these intentions or these announcements of the Government regarding the possible unification of the emergency coordination centres and the transfer of the existing centres in Álava and Gipuzkoa to Bizkaia, and that any decision on this issue is paralysed until we have a conclusive study on the situation, the X-ray of the emergency situation and the measures that, if necessary, need to be taken, but measures that need to be taken in relation to the improvement of the quality of service. At no time can these measures mean a decline in the quality of service, and we understand that this announcement must therefore be absolutely paralysed and that those intentions of the Executive cannot be translated into a concrete decision to unify these emergency centres in Bizkaia, as it seems to be the intention of this Executive. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u47	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u48	Thank you, President, and good morning. Well, I believe that this issue which has already been dealt with in the last plenary session and in which we have signed all the groups we have had amendments, I do not think that we should repeat any more than the previous speakers have already said, since we have been able to reach an important agreement. This is not the first time this issue has been dealt with in this Parliament. As I say, Mr Darpón, in the previous full monitoring session, has already explained the position which the Government stands for; he has put forward the appropriate explanations to some of the assessments made by Mrs Blanco, and we understand that he has given the necessary answers to the doubts raised, which today is what gives shape to the signed compromise amendment. On the one hand, we understand that it was clear that there is no definitive decision on this matter, that I believe it was something that was of concern to the opposition parties and, on the other hand, it was recognized the need to make this rigorous analysis effectively and efficiently with regard to service, an aspect that is reflected in the amendment that we have already signed and that from the beginning we raised the two parties that we supported the Government. The concern, of course, for the Socialist Group, and we believe that for the Government, it is the model of comprehensive care, which goes beyond the number of centres and where they can be located, and in this matter which has come from afar since the year 83, it is not the first time that there is a need to reflect and make an important analysis, and we believe that, over time, it should be recognized that different changes have taken place. The Council also recognised the need for coordination and cooperation, which, on the other hand, is what we must guarantee and there are two departments involved, which Mr Darpón said was part of the success of the matter. On the other hand, and no less important, is the work and importance of the workers, one of the aspects that Mrs Blanco has pointed out and that she has already done in the presentation of the inquiry. This aspect has been included in the transactional because we all recognize the importance and opinion of the collective, and this aspect was also recognized in the plenary. Their views and contributions will therefore be taken into account, as they are literally reflected in the signed text. We could therefore conclude by saying that it is important to recognize this agreement on a health issue, since we have a trajectory in which confrontation and disagreement are the main themes of this department. We therefore considered it important to recognise a unanimous vote on something as important as the emergencies in Euskadi. There is no decision that will be put into effect now; we understand that the important thing is the model. As I have said, beyond the number of centres, it is important and essential to take account of the opinion and position of the workers, and there is a clear commitment on the part of the department and it will be necessary to analyse the alternatives and the consequences of them. We must therefore congratulate ourselves on the agreement and acknowledge the importance of the matter, the concern of the Government for it and the need to work listening to the groups involved. I therefore believe that, on a subject of unanimity such as this, with all that is difficult for us in this department to achieve, I do not think we should add much more. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u49	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u50	Thank you, ma'am. Good day to you all, chiefs, members of the law, good morning. Mrs. Blanco, if I had to shorten the reply the chief physician had made to your interference, I should say, remembering what he had said: it is our intention to take a strict examination, which will help us to make the most proper decisions, according to the criteria which are to be met with in managing the public medical systems of Euscataia (Eseritism, efficacy, and the quality of service). The councillor sends us, with the most absolute clarity, an answer: there is no decision made regarding the emergency coordination centres of Osakidetza. To this day, what there is is an intention, and the intention is to make a rigorous analysis of the issue. That is why, when we tabled our amendment to your motion yesterday, Mrs Blanco, the groups that we support the Government included in our amendment this substantial idea: the need to carry out this rigorous analysis. We also picked up two other ideas; it's objective, there it is in our writing yesterday. The second idea is that this analysis is the basis for making the most appropriate decision, and the third idea is that the compass of this study is the perspective of effectiveness, efficiency and quality of service, because we understand that we must observe in this study, as in any study, these parameters: we must observe that the service meets the objectives that we intend to achieve, effectiveness; that we achieve this compliance by optimizing all resources, efficiency, and that we comply with the highest quality. In addition to the nuclear ideas that we share with the advisor and which appear in our amendment text, we also share with him a motor idea: in any area of responsibility, responsibility or any other advisor, in any of the services, in any of the procedures, in any of the protocols, in any, if we analyze the detail, it is possible, surely, we will find a margin of improvement, we will find the possibility of moving forward, and that is also the responsibility of a government, of a counselor: to analyze, determine possibilities for improvement, to design actions and to apply them, and the emergency service is no exception, because there are no exceptions to that motor idea. The counselor told us: how many organizations do you know...? – or rather I was telling you, right? – How many organizations do you know that have not made any substantial changes in such a long period of time, in 35 years? Well, I don't know any. Mrs. Blanco, beyond the stage that we can make any of us in this gallery, if I had to extract or extract the synthesis of your intervention, in addition to the determination of the object, which I recognize you, I recognize your laboriousness, and in addition to noting the importance of this service for all our citizens, which is shared, I would summarize your inquiry in a sentence of yours – and I quote it –: "And, Mr. Darpón, if you have to adapt your service, if you have any changes, you ought to plan them well, put them in and think about them." In short, in my opinion, he shares two approaches with the adviser: he shares the motor idea that there may be areas of improvement, and he shares that sequence of analysis, planning, we must think, we must share and we must do it. And he ends his questioning by saying: "Let's say if, with the decision they have made and put on the table, they believe that in the face of vital emergencies, in many cases a more agile, more effective, more humane, better service will be provided." If we sequence the question and the answer, summarizing them to the fullest, you ask the counselor: Mr. Counsellor, why have you made this decision when you should have done a rigorous analysis before acting? And the counselor replied: "Mrs. Blanco, it is not so; we have not made any decisions. Today, our intention is to carry out an analysis that will help us make the most appropriate decision. That is why..., but the case is that this question-answer has become something a little more serious, motion resulting from an inquiry, and to me, sincerely, I was surprised by your text, the text of your justification and the text of your motion. At that first moment of surprise, I have to admit that, after that moment of surprise and talking to you and knowing your disposition, since the approach, so to speak, surprised me less. I would like to recall a data from this service: during 2017, more than 400,000 calls received, more than 400,000 quick and diligent responses; efficiency and quality, and undisputed professionalism. Could we have given this answer, Mr. Counsellor, in 1983? Certainly not, surely not; but it is also certain that 35 years ago the best response was given according to the situation, the technological resources and the professionals we had in service at the time, and I have no doubt that, every time they understood they could improve, they did so. A constantly evolving model, decades of shared work, which forces us to continue to act, pursuing efficiency, efficiency and quality in service. Shared work that forces us to constantly evaluate ourselves, that forces us to evaluate and analyze the best emergency models in our environment and outside our environment, that forces us to pursue innovation in service. Nor do I have any doubt that the counselor is fully aware that whatever decision is made, it will have an impact on the service, by them it moves us, it moves us... in the past full of control, the need for in-depth analysis, rigorous analysis, the detailed study of each of the alternatives and their impacts, you said, in health care, working conditions, technological resources, physical spaces of work... And so he moved him and defended him in his response to the interpellation: the need for shared work. There is also a need for a joint drive from here; that is the importance, in my opinion, of today's agreement. The thanks, as other speakers have commented, and the recognition of the impulse of the groups that, pursuing this margin of improvement, have done so through or in the form of agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u51	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The turn of the race that has no correction, together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Uria, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u52	Mrs. Tejeria, good morning. Consejero Darpón, chief of departments. I'm glad we're in an agreement, and I'd like to explain why we, Podemos, are opposed to the union of the Osalist Center in the Union for five reasons: One. Today, neither teams, nor sector unions, nor any professional, social, or political team, have any contact with the centres of the emergency centers of the Osa-doers up to the present time the investigation of Euscalomical Autonomy or the surrounding matter. Two. A group of workers in the emergency centres of the board requires peace and industry, and a special formation of their work, their support, and their opinion, in modifying protocols, or changing whatever might be created. It hasn't happened before. Third. Work problems are negotiated. We don't know any kind of a possible negotiation process about the union plan with the crew of the emergency centres, but people don't like to think about their opinions. Until now. Fourth. The health department and the board manager do not reflect on the clearness of services, and even in the process of making decisions, even in order to make a larger democracy. We asked them for it, but they can't hear us until now. The situation is not to break relations with opposition, it is to be humble. Fifth and last. There are evidences of scientific truth, organizational improvements and technical efficiency and social efficiency before people's serious problems. Tell us about it. We don't know what your model, Madrid, Paris or Murcia is, we don't know your opinion. Until now... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u53	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Is there gonna be an answer shift? [[Words]] Now that the debate is over, we'll vote EH Collect, Eukal Popula, Basque Socialists, half-correction signed by the Podemos and Eukobertarians together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u54	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Motion, Eukene Arana Varas, introduced together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos, concerning the machinations and elderly women. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Arana, representing the Podemos team, has the word to introduce and defend her. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u55	Yeah. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday, in this Parliament, we were participating some of us in an activity on equality, a world cafe mansplaining ] [[Berber]] eskerrik asko–, the culture of rape, romantic love, respect for care... I thought about my teens and how strange these subjects were to us at that time. At the end of the day we came to the conclusion that there is a great deal of work to be done, despite the fact that there was no mention of it in my day, and that, as I say, we have made some progress. I was left with the feeling that society is changing and that young people are not going to allow a step back, nor that public institutions are not up to it. After listening and exchanging with the teenagers, I came to mind a motto of the City Council of Barcelona: "The future is not macho." Indeed, the ethical-political principles of feminism advance, continue to conquer common sense, expand and consolidate generation after generation. We are at an unprecedented historical moment, from recognition of the contribution of feminism to the denaturing of violence, to the visibility of care, to the criticism of traditional economic theories, to the questioning of a socio-economic model that generates social inequalities, to the conquest of rights for all and to the development of fundamental concepts such as justice, equality and freedom. Some teenagers yesterday presented themselves as feminists with pride and no fear of being judged. The challenges ahead are so many, and yesterday's teenagers were a big ball of oxygen to continue working for a feminist future. At the beginning of the activity, we find at each table a photo and phrases of some woman of great relevance in history: Clara Campoamor, Emma Goldman, Virginia Woolf, Simone de Beauvoir, Mary Wollstonecraft, among others, curiously 17-year-olds and teenagers had not met these women in their educational career. A fact that reveals that the educational system continues to omit a fundamental part of the political, social, economic and cultural history of Humanity, a further demonstration of the invisibility that we women suffer. So, before I fully enter this initiative, I want to make a reminder. This Sunday, November 25, 58 years after the femenicide of Patria, Minerva and Maria Teresa Mirabal, known in their political activity are the nickname of Las Mariposas. The sisters were killed for being women and for being active in the resistance to the Trujillo dictatorship. It is essential to remember them, because they, like all those I mentioned earlier, are an important part of the genealogy of feminism, which is the genealogy of all of us, women, and are also the genealogy of the human rights of all and of all, and without them, our present would be much more difficult, no doubt. Having said that, which is closely related to the initiative that we are bringing, I come into the subject of the debate that we were proposing today from Elkarrekin Podemos. From our parliamentary group, we have been constantly working on equality and machist violence. The aim is to place them at the centre of the political agenda, to improve policies for prevention, care, protection and reparation and, of course, to push for changes in the way in which this systematic violation of human rights towards women is addressed. To this end, it seems to us very important that we talk about all the manifestations of violence suffered by women, from the subtlest such as the easy joke to despise the word of a woman, to the irreversible, femenicide. We also believe it is essential to incorporate cross-cutting into our analyses, debates and initiatives. I say this because women are not a homogeneous whole; we are diverse, and sexist violence materializes in different ways in our lives. We've all suffered macho violence, but not all in the same way, and this is very important. We are also diverse in our capacities, in our personal resources, in our family networks, in our beliefs, expectations and interests; therefore, each project of life free of violence combines elements common to all women and also individual elements, very particular elements. The second are key for every woman to make a path of her own and adapted to her needs, times and strengths. Incorporating intersectorality, when we talk about machist violence, means recognizing the multiple axes of oppression that women face, and, to this end, our task and responsibility is to provide measures that respond to the needs of all women. This is laid down in the VII Equality Plan. Among its guiding principles is that of intersectionality, and it says textually: "Although in patriarchy women share a gender identity, they do not respond to a single sign of identity – and continues –; other sources of inequality and discrimination may be language, class, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, functional diversity... Intersectorality implies the proposal of a more complex and inclusive action, which opens the eyes to situations where inequalities against women intensify." In the question of the other day, Mr Lehendakari answered us, ignoring this cross-sectional perspective and disregarding the VII Equality Plan, for example, when he said: "In the problem of macho violence, there are no ages to act on." Indeed, we absolutely agree that all women, at their age, must receive all the attention and support; however, in order for this to be real and not just a slogan, the various sources of inequality and differentiated needs must be taken into account. And the situation and needs of older women are different from those of a 15-year-old girl or a 30-year-old girl. All may be victims of sexist violence; of course, all have to receive attention and support, but not all need the same support, the same resources and the same answers to get ahead. We are pleased that, on the part of the parties of the Government, they have understood what we were talking about in the question to the lehendakari, and we also understand the reason for our motion, which is nothing more than to act in the light of the specific needs of women who suffer from sexist violence. Today we focus on one of the factors that, according to the data, is affecting many women in a situation of greater vulnerability and prolonging situations of machist violence in the family sphere. This factor is age. According to official data published by Emakunde, between 2002 and 2017, almost 40% of women killed by sexist violence were over 50 years old. However, if we look at all the data from the Department of Safety, we see how older women are the least reported, especially in the case of violence by partner or ex-partner, and, the older they are, the less reported. There is hardly any data on the violence in homes, residences, leisure spaces or family... Few measures focused on them, and there are no specific measures in the protocols on gender-based violence in older women. Many of them have suffered and suffered ill-treatment for many years, and they have remained silent and have been trapped, for decades, in ill-treatment, either by a system of beliefs, or by communication difficulties in some cases, or by being in a situation of greater dependence on health or economic reasons, by the more rigid defects in the process of patriarchal socialization, also by being in a situation of greater isolation. And, of course, because we believe that society itself still does not recognize that older women also suffer from sexist violence. In short, for many reasons, older women are in a situation of greater vulnerability and difficulty in carrying out life projects free of all forms of violence. For this reason, we have presented, from Elkarrekin Podemos, this initiative for debate, with the aim of improving the opportunities of older women to live lives free of sexist violence, with proposals and measures that affect different areas of action and which, in summary, would be the following: To make known and recognize the historical and current contribution of older women to the development of Basque society and the achievement of rights, through days, workshops and at least two campaigns. To make society aware of the existence of different forms of machist violence against older women. To improve early detection and care processes for older women victims of machist violence, in particular from the socio-health field, by revising the care protocols to be developed under the third inter-agency agreement for the care of women victims of domestic abuse and sexual violence, to include the specific measures needed, and to provide tailored responses to the particular reality of older women, as well as to strengthen support programmes for the care and protection of victims of machist violence. It should be borne in mind, in the intervention processes, that the system of beliefs, difficulties of communication in some cases, greater dependence on health or economic precariousness may have a greater impact. And, in order to gather all this detailed information in this regard, we will try... or will be updated, better, the 2011 study, The autonomy of older women in the Basque Country and their contribution to the empowerment processes Another point was to organize specific days of reflection and exchange and training on sexist violence and older women, aimed primarily at providing specialized tools to the professionals who attend to the systems of prevention, care and protection for women victims of sexist violence. We also called for all necessary measures to address all forms of machist violence suffered by women, as well as emphasizing the particular forms of machist violence against older women, to be incorporated into the Machist Violence Bill. Finally, to add that, in all existing studies and reports on violence against women, they deepen their knowledge of the sexist violence suffered by older women. On the basis of this proposal by Elkarrekin Podemos, we welcome having reached an agreement with all political formations, and we thank everyone for the work they have done to reach this agreement. Really, thank you. And finally, I want to remind you that this Sunday women will go back to the street, women will go back to the street... On 25 November, demonstrations convened by the feminist movement in the Basque capitals will take place. This year under the motto "about patriarchal injustice, feminist articulation". We encourage the whole of society and, in particular, women to participate in the demonstrations and activities that take place in the coming days in all the towns and cities of Euskadi. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Houseboy, representing the EH Collect Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u57	Yes, thank you. Good noon, everyone. I wanted to start my speech with yesterday, as Eukeen did, and I mean to tell you that I really liked what you said, and that you touched me for a few moments, because I think that even yesterday was what it was: we who were there lived like this, like a very beautiful and singular day. And, as Euken said, the young men of the Koldo Michelena came up to us, and yesterday I told the members of the protocol that we're often in a whirl and that it's hard to get out of it and that it's a whole morning when we're making a terrible sacrifice from reports, budgets, and we're offering ourselves a morning's hard time to argue, but it's not so. And I thank them for giving us the chance to do that. Because it's hard for us to... But then, from the third DBH to the second Batxierz, these young people who shared the rounds of the table were very popular because they know what their rights are, they proclaim, they speak, they talk about feminism we talked about, of all oranges, of romantic love, and between my team, we set up this: revolution. And they don't shut up, and we don't have to shut up, as they taught us, because we've got to learn for them. Though the malevolent violence has no age, yet we may have the attitude to them, or the mechanism of resisting it, because they are different, according to their age. And we saw that some of us have consciousness, that they may be accused of not accepting such situations, and that makes the other, that there should be more accusations among young men, or that they should be less liable to be toxic. Aunque la violencia de género no tickete edad, las mujeres mayores viven una experimental vuln usedad, que tenemos que poner sobre la mesa. And today's proposal is what he's doing. I therefore wish to thank you again, as I told you yesterday, for putting this matter on the table, for making such a precise proposal, and bringing the public controversy into this law. And from here, too, I'd like to make a request for the media to work for speakers to surface this subject. In the different enterprises which we employ, let us also consider this view, because it is not only with violence, but also with violence. It must be mentioned, added to the state of invisibility and impulsibility of these women: economic dependence, stereotypes cultured, patriarchal education, their state of things caused by many factors. Many of them have lived for many years with men who have done violence against them, and have many difficulties in preventing such communications. That would explain why they're making less accusations. Economic dependence is one of the barriers between women and the complaint against their husbands, couples, spouses... Many of them worked their whole lives taking care of the household, their children and their partners, but many of them paid a minimum pension, because they never contributed to Social Security. This is also supported by the patriarchal mandate of the good wife and the mother of the family as responsible for preserving the family unit. A role that society has clearly reserved for women who are now 65 years of age or older and who were educated in the Franco-Fascist dictatorship. At this moment when the cuneteros want to recover Franco's memory, in which the fascists want to praise the dictatorship, I want to recover the memory of the anti-Franquist fighters, from whom they fought outside and inside the home, who were wanted to impose the doctrine of Pilar Primo de Rivera, of the Women's Section. And also those women who went out to give their vote for the first time here at Euskal Herria, challenging all the traditions that they wanted to keep women in private space. Pilar Primo de Riveraren doktrinaren oinarria luzatu zuen Section Femeninak honelako ideak zabaltzen zituen, besteak beste: "You don't have to be a girl packed with books who can't talk about anything else; you don't have to be an intellectual." Between 1937 and 1977, 3 million women between the ages of 17 and 35 made the "social service", a sort of female militia providing cheap labour –bara non, gratuitous – to hospitals, dining rooms and other socio-health institutions. They said, the Women's Section said, "The life of every woman, in spite of all she wants to simulate or disguise, is nothing but an eternal desire to find someone to submit." This proposition, therefore, is intended to put their memory in value, as they dared, of those who received their voice, and of those who could not receive it. For we must know, understand, and put together the precise contrivances of which we must understand, because it has not been easy to break the way, the direct and patriarchal thought that affects us, at this time of our very fascist base, it was very difficult to get out of it. The women who paid for prison and the person LGTB still pay for their deviation, their deaths, the women and many people LGTBs pay their "deviation." They punished free women horribly, but they made their way and we're here. The maxist violence continues, it's one of the main concerns, and even the feminist movement, the same night yesterday, November, was reported in a press conference with 25, saying, "No more stops and more intervals." Therefore, in this proposition against silence, I wish to be Ana Orantes: When he went to the television station, where he ventured to report a life full of violence, he was the first of the women to speak publicly of machista violence in personal order. Soon afterwards her husband, the ex-husband, killed her. The death of Ana Orantes had a great influence. We started talking about machista violence, and we saw a lot of change in the media. We are now speaking of justice, or of injustice, of the judgment against the violences of theruñ. Let us acquire the confession we owe to the great women, and let us begin to speak of their condition. Pilar Primo de Riveraren hitz batzuk zitatzen amaitu nahi nuke: "Every day we should give thanks to God for having deprived most women of the gift of the word, because, if we had, who knows if we would fall into the vanity of exhibiting it in the squares." Pues, le vamos a contradicir una y milles, leaving it to God, I want to end this thanks to our feminist ancestors, saying that today we will receive the word from five women, that the public square, that many women are taking a word, that we are filling the square, and today the principal women are putting themselves in the middle of the square and living in the middle of it, because they are also setting up the centre of violence and machinery, with an antifascist cry: "no passant," they said. No passe que quiren hacernos retroceder, no passan los que nos quies quiren cadas y sumisas, because they do not yet know, but we say that we are many, that we are organized, and that we are ready to give everything for the equality and liberty of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted. I, Mrs Etxebarrieta, am going to try to focus the debate, because I believe that, when we talk about these issues and especially when we talk about combating the scourge of gender violence, a problem that unfortunately many women are suffering and that many women have also been murdered, I believe that this problem deserves specific treatment and, of course, not trying to come here to do a ceremony of confusion, with speeches, which I believe are clearly blurring the subject before us. On the other hand, I think you don't know if good memory, because I think it's something younger than me, and I from the time to which you referred have no memory, because of the age at which I touched to live it, which was very small and therefore the only references I can have are from the ears or from the books of History, which is often convenient to read, but the books of History that also speak of the whole history and also of the recent history here in Euskadi. I don't know, nostalgic perhaps, but I, of course, don't remember, and I didn't know that Mrs Pilar Primo de Rivera had doctrine, I didn't know about that novelty to which you have referred here today. I must say that we have discussed this subject several times in this Chamber, and that we have obtained an extensive agreement. To-day, Podemos brings us this debate, and it is his object, especially, to speak of violence against women, of Arana. La moción que nos trae hoy Podes treated de hablar de la violencia machistia que sufren las mujeres mayores. I do not have a very clear question here, and I want to introduce it as a pre-debate issue, to limit from what age a woman is older, Mrs Arana, because, if we stick to the data you provided the other day, she was telling us about the data for the period 2002-2017, in which she told us that 30.95% of women over 50 years of age were murdered. I do not know whether this is the band in which we can consider, from the age of 50, older woman, and that if women are older, therefore, we equate them to women who are older than this age. As I said, there are many initiatives that we have discussed on this issue, but by groups, in a piecemeal way, by groups and, above all, by age groups. And we, from the People's Party, have no inconvenience – and, in fact, we have also made an agreement to reach an agreement by a large majority and by unanimity in this Parliament – but we believe that it is more appropriate – and I say this to you sincerely, Mrs Arana, and I believe that on other occasions I have already commented, I have commented on this issue – to make an approach, a treatment... the situation and possible improvement measures to combat the scourge of gender-based violence from an integral, global point of view and from that joint vision that we have to have of the situation of policies put in place to combat or to combat gender-based violence from institutional areas, for the sake of..., and for that reason, from that global, integral, total perspective... of what gender-based violence is, as a problem we have in this society, we are presenting an initiative that will be discussed next Thursday. We believe it is important that, in this regard, we speak and comment on the Basque Government's commitment to the referral of the bill against gender-based violence. We also believe it is important that, at the time of two years' parliamentary term, and since we have discussed many initiatives on this issue, an assessment and an assessment of the agreements that we have reached, in which we have put concrete measures to the Government, is what we are going to discuss in the People's Party initiative, which, as I say, will be discussed next Thursday, and also the ability to address outstanding issues, to be able to improve the existing protocols. That is to say, I think it is better to approach or treat this debate not in a partial way, as we do through numerous initiatives, which we have no inconvenience at all, but from a perspective, as I say, more comprehensive and comprehensive of this matter. But, going back to the subject before us today and talking about the situation of violence suffered by women, I think I understand that you have tried to motivate your initiative in relation to the particular situation of vulnerability that older women may experience under certain circumstances. In some cases this may be the case, but, as the Lehendakari told you the other day in response to his inquiry, it is also not necessary to conclude that all older women – who you number for more than 50 years – have or require special intervention. I think it is important to remember – and we will also talk about these issues in the next debate or next Thursday – and to make an assessment of the existing situation of the evaluation of the programmes launched, such as Nahiko, Beldur Barik, Gizonduz and the Jabetuz programme, aimed at the training of professionals involved in the whole process of caring for victims of gender-based violence. And it seemed important to us – and I am finishing, Madam President – to focus on those measures that represent improvements in the various areas of action, which we believe must include any measures that are put in place in relation to the problem of gender-based violence. And for us it was important and we understood that their original initiative was more in the areas of awareness-raising, prevention, campaigns – which I think are important – but I don't think we can neglect the later stages either, once women file a complaint. Specific issues related to assistance, protection, support and also the situation of minors. These issues have been introduced in the compromise amendment, and that is why we at the end, well, because we have endorsed this amendment agreed by all groups. I would like to conclude by also making a mention or a reference that, of course, I particularly, and from the group I represent, well, we also try to achieve that more just future, in which citizens can exercise their rights, the rights that they have with freedom, exercising freedom, with the only limit that sets or marks the law. And, of course, a more just society, and putting it in relation to the issue before us, of course, is to arbitrate all the instruments or mechanisms that are necessary to combat this scourge of gender-based violence. That is why we, well, consider the agreement reached today to be important, but I also have to say that we believe that it is better to address this issue as a whole. And in that sense, let's also hope that you treat with affection, look with affection... the initiative to be discussed next Thursday, which has been presented by the People's Party and which has been placed on the agenda of the next ordinary plenary session next week. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u60	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u61	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all again. Indeed, we share the concern raised today by Elkarrekin Podemos, and, as Mrs Arana said at the last full session, policies relating to equality, to gender-based violence, to everything that has to do with feminist movements, is on the political agenda of this Parliament, almost every day in committees and in plenary, and, as Mrs Garrido, whom we already knew, has already announced, we will also be discussing the issue next week. We can say, I believe that there is no doubt that there is a clear commitment in the Basque Parliament to put in place the necessary tools to eradicate macho violence, and I believe that, although there are initiatives in which we do not achieve unanimity, as is the case here, I do not think that we can question either the commitment or the concern that all the parliamentary groups in this House have on this issue. It is true, by focusing on the subject of male violence in older women, that, if we were talking about numbers, the feeling we all have is that every day is more alarming the derivative that is acquiring this matter. And while it is true that there are more complaints, it is also true that the victims do not descend, but do not cease to grow, and, given that the number of women over 50 years of age is also true that they have a higher profile. It is important to deal with this issue, I share it with Mrs Garrido, in an integral way, but it is also true that the vulnerability of older women is different from that of younger women, certainly for education, for their own reality and for the history that we all have, in the same way that we defend the need to deal with this issue in a cross-cutting way, on the part of the Administration, and that it is not limited to what has to do with Lehendakaritza. Yesterday, we could read in a media outlet the adoption by the Basque Government of an institutional declaration recognizing equality as the most effective tool for combating macho violence, and I understand that we all share this view. The original initiative raised a number of points, with which, in a more or less concrete way, we all agreed. We share the need for specific measures. The contribution of feminist groups to the achievement of many of our current rights cannot be denied. The need to reflect, to work, is undeniable. It is true that we must continue to work for early detection, for prevention policies, for the need for training and, of course, the law on sexist violence will come to Parliament, and we will work on finding consensus, hopefully by achieving unanimity, as in this case. The only thing I would say, that it is not that it does not share, but that I would matify, is that although Mrs Arana has told us that there has not been much progress, that there has been little progress, I think that, although much remains to be built, it can be said that much progress has been made from those aspects that have been explained, especially by EH Bildu and Elkarrekin We can in the debate on this initiative. As I say, I think we can be optimistic and say that history speaks for itself and, from what was before what was now, we can say that the progress there is and we should congratulate ourselves on it. Therefore, in this initiative, as in the previous one, a unanimity which I believe we should celebrate. Because it is true that, although we share the philosophy of most initiatives related to male violence, we are not always able to put the signature of all parliamentary groups into one text. So, nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u62	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Madame Arriguega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. The chief of the department. I would like to make a little mention of yesterday's performance, and I would thank the parliament, to arrange yesterday's events, and to congratulate and thank him for having given me a chance to participate. I was amazed at the young of the Koldo Michelena, I did not really expect such talk, the facility of expressing, the capacity for deep reflection, and, in truth, I should like to congratulate the professor of the Koldo Michelena, and even the student.... I should also like to congratulate the pupil, who encourages and encourages this union of equality, and I believe that more such enterprises are necessary. That's what I'm talking about. There are many things already said to be, so I'll try to be brief. Yes, I must confess that after I had read the title of the interpellation of the week past by Mrs. Arana, after listening to her intervention, I did not agree with some arguments which had been given me. And he had the impression that he had introduced himself to the same thing again, saying, according to the official data published by the offering, Eukadin. That 30%, 95, over the year of 2002-2017 were women who were killed, and that, based on these facts, it is necessary to give proper answers to the machiist violences that age women can endure. And I don't agree that they shouldn't give proper answers to the machistas of violence that women of age can endure, but because I mean to say that in our society today, and especially in the Eukadin, women 50 years old are not women. Many of the women who form this legislature are back 50 years, and I wouldn't catalog them like old women. Others are over 58 years old, and yet I don't think they should have any particular interventions; we'd go into old stereotypes. So I'd like to announce today that he's here. Every 50-year-old woman doesn't need a special policy addressed to a man of age, or to 58, just because she's that age. And it really was strange, and I didn't take it badly, please, Mrs. Arana, but this speech with you, with a paternal air from your hand, didn't convince me, and I wanted to express it in this discussion today. However, the President himself, in his interference, gave some facts in his interference, saying that women of over 58 years represent more than 30 percent of our society. And therefore he did not make it clear that this question was more independent of the older women, but it is true that this is what I want to tell you, and I also want to make it clear that the President de Guise himself confessed that a woman of old must be found in a more general state of imperturbability, and that therefore a special measure should be developed for women who are present in this state, and that it is done. And as far as that and bad deals are concerned, a process of perception has been set up by the hiccoughing of the wrong treatment that elderly people can endure, in this case it would be remarkable. Besides, it is a very modern procedure, and even in other communities the means of evading and hearing the physical and economic treatment of the members of the Renaissance is, that, in order to convey information about this procedure to you, there is nothing else to say to you, but to assure you, that Euscany Autonomy is a process of preventing and apprehending the physical and economic treatment of the members of the community. Let us therefore recognize the efforts made and the measures taken, which does not prevent us from recognizing that young and older women continue to suffer this violation of human rights, and also recognizing that older women also need specific actions. Mrs Arana has also referred to the VII Equality Plan, pointing out the needs and means for the early detection of violence against women; therefore, I am not going to expand on this issue. The course which has hitherto been made shows us the direction, keeps the equality of women and men as a strategic object, and I believe that it is important also to acknowledge it. And that's the arrangement today, so that little claim on my first part... Secondly, I must say, that we must confess, that the women of the great age have certain wants, and consequently that all our preparations are to be concluded to-day. The representatives of the groups who have spoken before me have advanced that we have signed a medium, that it has been a great preparation for all the groups, and that we believe that the points which the agreement itself has received are really important and valuable. They're all very important. Batzuk bai nabarmendu nahiko nituzke: adibidez, bigarren puntuan hitz egiten dene "to make visible and sensitize society about the existence of the different forms of macho violence that are exercised towards older women, with the aim of denaturing and raising awareness about a phenomenon that still remains largely hidden, through, among others, the creation of spaces for formation and debate, as well as through the Jabetuz project", because, well, the empowerment processes of these women in adverse conditions are a source of learning for future generations, already said lehendakari. And I would like to review the Jabetuz programme in Emakunde, which over the past three years has trained a thousand professionals who care for women victims of violence and is a fundamental commitment to making progress in public policies on this issue. Training that, from a feminist perspective, has to lay the groundwork for such attention to be able to support women in their path of reparation and empowerment. Point three also talks about improving early detection and care processes for older women who are victims of sexist violence. This is a very important point, now that the time has come to draw up the third interinstitutional agreement, in order to improve and strengthen all the instruments necessary for the care of women victims of abuse and sexual violence; as well as to gather new updated information by November 2019, which I even encourage to advance that it could collect more data, in order not to replicate past reports and to be able to provide new and more information. Also point four, in which we talked about sharing experiences, reflections and so on with women victims of violence; we have just had experiences of this kind as it could have been the elaboration of the documentary Volar We are also talking about the bill on sexist violence; well, of course and referring to lehendakari, because attention to this reality has progressively incorporated normative improvements, social techniques, implementing the necessary measures to prevent and comprehensively care for all victims until their full recovery, including, of course, older women. And the last point too: to continue completing existing studies and reports... Very important, in order to be able to continue to diagnose and implement measures according to real needs, a little in line with what we are doing today, which is to detect specific problems and apply them also specific solutions. I think it is a good agreement; I think it contains concrete and very necessary proposals and, for that reason, we welcome the agreement reached. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Any response shifts, will it? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u65	I just wanted to make a point, because I didn't get it right anyway. We used Emakunde's data between 2002 and 2017; it is true that they use an age band that starts from the 50, we refer to that data, but obviously to whom we refer is the older women within that band, with which we are not thinking about women of 50, we simply use Emakunde's data which is how they collect the data. We should also make a contribution to Emakunde so that, from now on, the reports collect another type of age sector, which starts from sixty and something. I don't know, they, the experts, they'll probably know, but we're not thinking about women, of course, 50 years old, but rather from the age of 70, 80 and 90... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Mrs. Houseboy, I don't have to talk. Anyone else? No? [[Pause]] Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Popula, Basque Sociists, EH and Eukobertarians, half-correction signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u67	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of the legislature of the Popula, Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, a member of the legislature of the Popula team, concerning the bill of contributions. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Ruiz de Arbullo, representative of the Potion of the Basque Groups, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. I would like to be able to call a sufficient majority, if not the unanimity of the House, on the simple motion that I propose to you today. It is simply a request that the Government comply with its voluntary commitment and that it has a legal obligation to update, improve or bring to this House a new bill that improves the current Act on Contributions, Law 2/2007 of 23 March, which is in fact the core of the finances of the Basque Autonomous Community, since it is the law that has to define the methodology for the distribution of financial resources among all Basque institutions and, at the same time, it has to determine the contributions made by the outside bodies to the general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community. That is, where our money goes, how it is distributed and what it is going to be spent will then decide each of the institutions, depending on the application of the different coefficients that are provided for in that law, and that they are already old and that it is necessary to improve. It is a commitment made by the Government in the person of the finance adviser, which is a pity that he cannot accompany us today, although he knows what I am going to ask him to do in this debate. It is a commitment he has made on various occasions. A legal commitment, since the law we are asking for reform is a law that had a specific force in its own text from 2007 to 2011 and which, in case there was no renewal in time, provided for an extension. Well, we have had more time of extension than of established validity of the law itself. It takes more than one litre to extend that law, and the socio-economic situation that the 2007 forecast made has nothing to do with what we have in 2018, with which we will have in 2019, which is when we would like that law to come into force. Different excuses have been made, over time, not to bring that bill to the House, but one by one have all fallen apart and are over. The last thing they gave us was that the Basque Local Institutions Act required a report in its additional provisions that had to determine whether the various institutional levels were well or poorly financed, depending on the powers conferred on them by the laws and the Statute. The report is already on the table. The counselor played a strange game, because this report brought him a year and a half later than they had to do. They had a period of one year, 12 months, to elaborate, and they brought it to us I think 18 or 20 months after that period ended. And the counselor kept telling us that it was much better to reach a good agreement than not to comply with the law. It's a bit dangerous game for someone who has government responsibilities. I, of course, do not like it, because I think it is an argument that not everyone in this country, where we are all equal, can use, since citizens cannot say I will skip the fulfillment of the legal deadlines – let's think, for example, of tax settlements – simply arguing that what you want to do is a good settlement instead of presenting it in time, because then the corresponding inspections arrive and put a lot of extra charges, fines and sanctions on it. That argument is not worth it. No political office, no public official... could or should say that you are going to skip the legal deadlines simply, because what you want is not a bump, but a good deal. He therefore had a legal obligation that is being breached. And that is why today we urge you, members of the Government, to bring this bill immediately, which you can do exclusively, because the House's own Rules of Procedure do not allow it to be a bill, as is done on other occasions, to comply with the government's breaches. If we already have a legal obligation and we have the commitment of not only government representatives, because it has not only been this Finance Advisor, but previous Finance Advisors and other government members and spokespersons who have said that they are going to bring this law at that time... Nor can we overlook and forget that the very legislative timetable that the Government has approved and presented to us, because it has an obligation to do so, provided this text was here long ago, at the beginning of 2018, and the text has never arrived. It is also true that, from this legislative calendar, in terms of the legislature, there are more non-compliances than compliances, especially if we take into account the difference between the bill and the bill, that it would be interesting to see what those of Barrio Sesamo told us when they made those basic notions from above-down, near-away, bill-proposed law, someone within the government would have to have looked at it before bringing that legislative calendar that has brought us to the House to then happily fail to comply with both the contents and the deadlines. And, among them, that of the Law of Contributions, which I insist that we demand that they bring it to us before the end of this exercise, so that it can enter into force in 2018. If the reports are, if the methodology is approved, if there was a Basque Finance Council in February 2018 and upon departure the deputies general of the three territories, the representatives of Eudel, the representatives of the government... We were told that there was already agreement on the methodology, on that report and that they were going to bring the law this year, what's going on? Someone's not telling us the truth. However, that agreement does not exist. It's just that it's not easy to reach that agreement. And that is curious: we are living at a time when the collection goes up, a quantity is budgeted with which everyone is satisfied, it is collected even more, there is more money to spend, but, still, you do not agree on how you have to distribute that money. And they don't agree members of the same party. Because it might be difficult to think, for example, that in Gipuzkoa one-colored party, in Bizkaia another, in the Basque government another or others, and in the historical territory of Álava there would be a different government. Man, summoning political sensibilities, political projects... different has to be quite complicated, but in fact Law 2/2007 was made between different political colors. That deal was made. And today, which all belong to the same party, there is no way to get them to agree. I believe that the agreements in the General Staff of Pancho Villa Army were more easily arrived at than what is happening within the Basque Finance Council, because there is no way, ladies and gentlemen, for them to agree on how the money is distributed. Although everyone is saying that this law needs to be amended, it has been said on several occasions by the deputy general of Gipuzkoa, the deputy general of Álava, by the deputy general of Bizkaia, and even by the members of the Government. Not to mention, ladies and gentlemen, the other leg that we lack in this Basque Finance Council, which is Eudel, which also in its assembly the majority of the members representing the local councils and entities of the three territories have a monocolor majority of the Basque Nationalist Party. In other words, all the leaders of the institutions of the Basque Nationalist Party are unable to agree on how we have to distribute what is collected in the various outlaws of Euskadi. For what? For, simply, to see who fulfills or who does not, and who is left and who is not left with the money. I told them at first that the socio-economic situation from 2007 to today is completely different. And it's true. There are institutions that have to be governed and that have the money perfectly defined in the Act on Contributions in order to deal with the competences they had in 2007. The whole of the Unit Act, the entire Social Services portfolio, was not developed in 2007, and that is a very important burden, a very important expense, faced by outlaws and to a lesser extent by the municipalities of the Basque Autonomous Community. But they do not have funding; it is not defined in the Act on Contributions. The LILE report, to which they refer so much from the government, which was so fundamental, comes to us to say... The only conclusion he has is that the municipalities have sufficient funding to cope with the competences they have. No one believes it. No one believes it at all; I have not seen the press conference of Eudel presenting that report and saying that they are very happy with the funding they have because it comes to them for everything, because it is not true, because the municipalities, the local authorities, the supramunicipals – the gangs, for example – or the submunicipals, the councils, have always complained that they do not have enough funding to provide the services that citizens require them, services that the laws oblige them to provide, for example, from the social services portfolio. But it is no longer a problem of distribution between municipalities, parliaments and the Basque Government. It is a horizontal contribution problem, because Álava and Gipuzkoa complain that Bizkaia receives special funding. But the law is fine, and that's why it has a fund to make the necessary adjustments. Damn. If the contributions are correct according to the law, why do we need that fund? If the horizontal coefficients were the correct ones, that fund would be absolutely unnecessary and, within the framework of the law itself, the economic distributions would be the correct ones. Perhaps the Basque Government has the most funding or excessive funding, because, look, in 2017, the Basque Government left 'one without executions'; that is, they had a budgeted money, they had decided where they were going to spend it, this House had approved it, they had the necessary money, because they not only had the money that was foreseen in the budgets, but they also had an overrecovery. Well, well, they had 555 million euros left, which they decided not to execute, because they weren't needed. In order to give you an idea of the amount or volume of this amount, I can tell you that this year the Álava Foreign Office has submitted budgets for the 2019 financial year of EUR 517 million; that is, in 2017, the Basque Government was left with enough money that they decided not to use, because it was not necessary, in a volume higher than the historical record budget of the Álava Foreign Office. So, anyway, the vertical coefficients must also be corrected. And in all that you have to agree, sit at a table, which is called the Basque Finance Council, and actually comply with the word given. They already said on February 18 that they had an agreement and that this year we had the bill. Today, the groups supporting the Government have made an amendment saying that what they need to adopt is that agreement. But if that deal was already made. Why are they asking the government to do something that the government has already said it has done? The statements after that February meeting... on 12 or 14 February 2018, at the departure of the Basque Finance Council, of all those who attended – except the representatives of Eudel, who I did not find in the hemeroteca – said that they already had a double agreement to have the report in June – in May, it arrived June – and to have the distribution methodology approved in the Basque Finance Council this year, to have the bill that could be passed in this House. Since the Rules of Procedure prevent us, ladies and gentlemen, from having the rest of the opposition groups come to an agreement and bring in a bill to fill the government's incompetences, which has been unable all this time to reach that agreement and bring in the bill, we demand and urge, through this very simple motion, that we call for their support, that, before the end of the 2018 fiscal year, the bill to renew the Act on Contributions be in the House. Because if they have been unable to put order in the Marx brothers' cabin, to lock all those leaders in a batzoki And look at another thing: we're going into a few moments, that term that the counselor likes so much, slowing down. That is to say, if we had more than enough money so far and the collection went far above, a 6, an 8, 10% more than foreseen in the generous budgets themselves, which the Basque Finance Council itself determined with the budgetary limits for each institution, what will happen when things go wrong and when there is less money? Because if we are slowing down our economy, the collection will be smaller; therefore, the distribution of resources will have to be adjusted to a lower amount of money for each institution. That's the horizon we have in 2019. Before things get more difficult, I believe that the logical and normal thing is for you to support this simple motion today and we all demand that, before the end of the year, the draft be placed on the table of this Parliament, as committed by the Finance Adviser, and as committed by the Lehendakari and his Government as a whole, by bringing it within the legislative timetable that should have been fulfilled this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u70	Good morning, everyone. We are going to debate, on this item on the agenda, on this occasion, a motion, which was previously in this House a non-legislative motion also tabled by the People's Group on the draft Act on Contributions of the Basque Country. Few new developments in the proponent's argument from that time until now, and that it has been a year and a peak, and the truth is that it would have given him time to bring in questions of substance or content regarding what are those modifications that you seem so easy to reach with regard to the modification of the vertical coefficients, the horizontal ones, the participation of Alava, the deharmonization, the flow of treasury... Finally, all those questions which I have heard in these wonderful fifteen minutes which you have given us in connection with the motion which you have defended today in this House. I think it is right here that we should remind the proponents, as we have done since the Socialist Group last year, on the grounds that I also tell you of the debate that you initiated and that at that time Mr Antón Damborenea brought in, that the regulation of how the Act on Contributions has to be passed is taken up, whether you like it or not, in an article, number 22, of Law 27/1983 of 25 November on Relations between the Common Institutions of the Autonomous Community. What you know, with this that you like to shorten, by the Law of Historical Territories, which states that it will be – whether you like it or not – "the Basque Council of Public Finance that will approve the methodology of distribution of resources and the determination of the contributions of each historical territory to the budgetary expenses of the Autonomous Community". And this article 22 continues that I am mentioning to you that it will be, after this agreement in the Basque Finance Council, when the government raises to this House the corresponding bill that will incorporate the methodology previously agreed in this Basque Finance Council. Therefore, it will hardly be possible for the Government to present that preliminary draft law which you urge from this House, if previously the Basque Finance Council, where four institutions are represented, does not reach an agreement, due to the many constraints that your parliamentary group wants to impose and urge from this House. I remind you that this is a rule that has been in extension since 2011 and that the circumstances of being able to reach an agreement were different at that time and now. But that insistence that I am listening to you in full control when you addressed the Finance Advisor and the one you have made from this rostrum regarding that when a political party rules in a monocolor way the institutions do not have to have difficulties agree; I will remind you that the political parties govern for the good of the citizens and to obtain and defend the interests of a territory, and not the partisan interests. I do not know whether that is clear to you, that the institutions are not patrimonialized from the parties, but that the interests of the citizens are defended, as they have to have what they were told, sufficient funding to comply with the competences, and that it is also logical to do so from the solidarity of contributions between all the institutions. Therefore, it will be the institutions represented there – not the political parties, the institutions represented there – that must first agree on the methodology. It will then be when the Government in the Council can approve the preliminary draft, and it will then be when we have a debate in this House on it, to see whether we support the proposal put forward or not. He's already moved the tax advisor... I do not know what newspapers you read; I also review before I come to the speeches of this House a little bit the hemerotheque, and I have not found any that said they had an agreement signed at the beginning of 2018; indeed, all the news that appears is that, once you had the LILE report, which, by the way, you had to read it but with little affection – I told you so in committee too – some recommendations as to whether you have to modify or incorporate certain issues into the calculation of the methodology, do appear in this rule. It is true that you have been disappointed, and you have always considered it an excuse, to have technical data, since with the speech that you have made to us here from this rostrum, you believe that this is arranged simply by going up and down the decimals, we go to some specific territory, and in the rest, in the end, it is a matter of adjusting numbers and not of having data as to how it has to be modified. I believe that even a year ago we were told that the first Law of Contributions had absolutely no technical basis, but that it had been put into tuna, more or less that was the argument they used. Any attempt to promote another agreement here, by Parliament, will serve no purpose, since, even if the government wants to implement it, it cannot: its will is conditional upon its approval by the Basque Finance Council. And it is true – and we told you at the time – that the Law on Contributions for us is also an essential law for the fundamentally implementation of public policies in this Autonomous Community, so you have said: resources are distributed among the three institutional levels, and that is the law that determines what resources each of them has to finance the competences it has assigned. It is a law that has to define the financing of a country model, of a country model that we want, that must guarantee a financial sufficiency for all institutional levels, in order to be able to provide all public services from – and not forget – the solidarity of contributions from the three outlying haciendas. According to the adviser, and we believe this, it is a law that must be based on a high institutional consensus, not a partisan one, in which the balance between financial sufficiency and the aspirations that each administration, which is not a political party, must be combined for the better financing of the services that it subsequently has to provide. It seems to you that the amendment we have tabled is useless, but what we would like is for this Parliament to urge the Basque Finance Council and the four institutions that are represented there, to fulfil the commitment to close that agreement before the end of 2018, because that will allow this House, in the next financial year 2019, to express itself on a new Law on Contributions. Anyway, it is easier, as you often say, to preach than to give wheat. I will remind you that your parliamentary group has a bill tabled more than a year ago in this House, whose initiative is the initiative of these parliamentarians, whose chair of the People's Party holds and which, as of today, we do not know very well why, or why, they did not want to launch it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u72	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. It has already been said, but, M. Ruiz de Arbulus, I shall have a last thought of your interference to begin with. Bear kuriosoa iruditu zait Ekarpenen Legearekin lotutako gogoeta bat, baisa esan duzu that, since we are not allowed to jointly present an alternative to this legal text, we will present this motion so that, between Bildu, Podemos and the People's Party, we claim to the government to bring it. How curious, Mr Ruíz de Arbulo, that you and your parliamentary group, who refuse to give support to the Basque Government in order to be able to pass a law on an annual basis such as the budgets, have shown your willingness to present precisely with Bildu what you have described as one of the most important laws for the financing of Basque institutions, a law of a multiannual nature; therefore, there is a little bit of your double message. And what is the real will with this. In fact, today we will see how your motion is likely to be approved without a compromise amendment, because probably what you don't want is to visualize what in the background underlies, which, depending on your interest, has no prejudice, no problem... so I can agree and approve something with Bildu. However, to the Basque Nationalist Party, to our parliamentary group, to the Government, you intend to put difficulties in that regard. Aipatu izan duzu baita bijentziaren kontua, eta esan duzu that this law takes longer, we have had more time in extension than what the law itself would have to be, and you meant and joined it with which the counselor said it is better to reach a good agreement than to comply with the law. What the chief physician said ought not to be done, he said: "No stateos en una situción irregular, porque es una sytución perfecte prevista precisamante en laley, en disposicion final." In his last regulation he says: This law will continue in force until another new method is accepted, and in 2012 and the following years it will be established. We are therefore in a state of law, and he said that, being in a lawful condition, we may come to a good agreement, both being united, and never having to observe the law. You've mentioned, involved in the study of the matter, what we've received this year, and the consequences of the general analysis promised by the Basque Office Organization, well, you've been reviewed. That's your opinion, Ruiz de Abulo, and it's all right to give us an opinion, but we don't know how to determine it. The law of the Histric Lands, which is to be regulated by this method, mentions itself, and belongs to the Basque Council of the Common-wealths, where, as an organ between the Institutions, all the Eucadic institutions are present, and are to be examined and decided. It is not for us, as you say, to respect the established law. Let them do the work of their proper institutions and their proper limits. It has been mentioned: It's impossible to fill the motion you've introduced, but it's hard for you to get sent this bill here while you don't get a certificate from the American Basque Council, saying that all the organizations there have accepted it for the distribution of resources and fortuns have accepted a new method of financing the budgets of the Basque Autonomy Ercomia unless it's impossible. And I think it's necessary for us to respect it with a mouth of ours, and all of us have at their disposal what the Basque Council of the United Nations agreed on in October 2017. Where he says: "Because of all that... "And all this is said, I shall speak afterwards, and that the settlement of the coupe was necessary, and that it was necessary to have this general examination of the laws of the Basque Offices, in order to include or consider its consequences, in order to agree to new methodology. That's what he's talking about! And he says, considering all this, that it is not until 2017 p.m., that it was not until 2017, nor ever until 2015, not temporary, not temporary, not temporary, not temporary, not temporary, 2016, 2017, Methodist distribution has been defined. This was done in 2007, so exactly, with Madrid's Popular Party, it was a deal agreeded in with the PP government. After that, in 2016, we agreed with the EH Collectors, that we accepted the law of the Basque Offices, and there the order was given, and in this act it says: "All this has been decided by unanimous consent, and in the engagements which represent the Basque Council of the Common-wealths, there is no more occasion for engagement to adopt the new method which has been mentioned in the Act." Then the show's still in progress, so let's give them time to get the certificate ready for fun, and we've already agreed, and the funk will have to ask his reports to make a bill and send them to us. We're doing what the law promised. We're in a date established by the Basque Council of the United Nations, where we've been in possession of a long time ago, I don't know where it comes from without the law... or that the chief physician, or we are not speaking of the things that are within us, mentions not the execution of the law, or of the matter at bottom, or of disputes. That's why we're supposed to be at the Basque Country Council, and I'm afraid you don't have them there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. It's your call, Podemos, Mr. Bollain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u74	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of Investigators, congressmen. Well, defending the indefensible, doesn't it?, seems to be carried in the groups that support the government. The truth is that the debate on the Law of Contributions is increasingly similar to the day of the marmot: the government leaves the burrow, but months later it re-enters it. And I do not know whether this government is logical to it or not, whether the laws which have been made to stand still for the present time in force between the years of 2007-2011. But I am sure that the laws which had to be examined at least 2018 years ago are incomprehensible to the people. We think this is really nonsense, and I don't know whether underlying you can't agree with the superiors of the same party, can you? We have heard many times, as others have said, of the Law of the Contributions, and have heard several other times of the Supreme Powers. But whenever we ask about this, Mr. Subazus gives us the same answer: We're working, but come back tomorrow. And it seems that, whenever we ask Mr Azpiazu about it, he is about to close the window. And it is no longer worth talking about institutional loyalty or responsibility, because in this matter, if something has been lacking, it is precisely institutional loyalty and responsibility. Because having a law extended for seven years is not loyalty to the institution and, above all, is a great irresponsibility on the part of the various governments. What a coincidence that they are currently supported by the same political parties, by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. And we have said repeatedly that the fan of propaganda is not what Basque citizenship needs. This does not solve the problems of the social majority. And we read in February, as Mr Ruiz de Arbulo said, after the meeting of the Basque Finance Council, that the Basque Government and the foreign parliaments were committed to close in a few months' time an agreement on the new Law on Contributions, in order to be able to present it to the Basque Parliament before the end of the year and, as we have seen, another toad to swallow on the part of a weak government, which, for the umpteenth time, will have to give explanations on this subject. But today two parties who support the government are not ashamed to bring this correction which is never said once more. "Una enimenda que una vez más lo lo único que dæ d'ven thinks enñades mañana," poniéndose de la lado, por ensima vez, a la hora de afrontar la lehaltad insticial con responsabilidud." So, under the circumstances, we'd ask the lord and the government to give up excuse for once. It is absolutely necessary that there should be a renewed legislative of the contributors which will include the changes which have been in recent years. And, therefore, a Law on Contributions is needed to enable municipalities to meet all their obligations and to provide quality public services. At present, each historical territory allocates a different percentage of available resources to its municipalities. How can I go and explain to a citizen or a citizen of Eibar that in Ermua, two kilometers away, more money is received for belonging to Bizkaia? On average, between 2011 and 2017, years in which the law has been extended, Gipuzkoa municipalities have received €520 per capita less than Bizkaia because of the irresponsibility to keep the contribution law extended since 2011. Baina, kontuz, zeren hau ez da lurraldeen arteko gerra bat, baizik eta Euskal Autonomia Erkidegoko biztanle eta lurralde guztiak berdintasunez tratatzea. Eta horregatik behar-beharrezkoa da Ekarpenen Lege berriztu bat. A Law on Contributions which, in fact, determines an identical minimum percentage for the three historical territories and which includes homogeneous criteria for the distribution of resources among local entities. And, in this sense, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we understand that the revision of the Law on Contributions should be based on two premises, which also go in line with the conclusions and recommendations of the report of the General Analysis of Own Competencies and of the financing of the various institutional levels of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi First, it is clear that the horizontal coefficients need a revision, as does the general adjustment fund, and this fund should be properly raised to ensure that the principle of levelling is effectively implemented, because it cannot be tolerated that the territories do not have sufficient resources to deal with their policies. And, basically, because this has the consequence that, once again, the most vulnerable people are the worst affected by political management – to put it mildly – something more than improveable. And secondly, the vertical coefficients also urgently need a review, following the rise of some social rights and the deployment of the portfolio of social services, which represent new challenges for the parliaments and municipalities, as Mr Ruiz de Arbulo said earlier. And that is why, because of these new obligations, the vertical coefficients should be updated, so that the right to social services can be exercised by Basque citizens, while all administrations can provide them, provided that their citizens so request. And this law has a lot to say in this and that is why it is necessary for local entities to have a sufficient participation coefficient to enable them to meet their obligations. The Law of Contributions, moreover, we understand that it is a faithful reflection of the project of country that we want, and, from Elkarrekin We can, in this sense, definitely bet for a country where municipalism, the Auzolan And for this reason, we demand greater independence and financial capacity of local entities, allowing us to delve into real municipalist policies; greater independence and financial capacity, so that local entities are not simply the last step, inferior to the Autonomous Government or the provincial, but are real spaces of self-government. Because we understand that local administrative autonomy must be claimed and the management of the political, economic and social in municipal terms must be claimed. And because it is time to give local entities, as the administration closest to the citizenry, the place they deserve. And to finish, honestly, I think we have a chance to do things right, but it's not worth dilating sine die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u75	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u76	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. Today I am the last to speak; but the Law of the Contributions is in question again; and in truth, the Law of the Contributions is required to bring them to the Law of the Government. And, as has been said, it is not the first time that we speak of it in the legislature. The Confederation Law, as has been said, was to be renewed from 2011, and in 2017, we must have had another law of force, but we have still in extension supported in 2007. It is not, as I have said, the first time that we have spoken of this matter, that the new law of the Contributions had been laid upon the table; At that time, there were governments of different parts in the lowlands, and the Act of the Concertific Concert was declared to have been unrecognised from the Government. It doesn't matter. no matter what the motive was, it is true that it did not come to pass, although the subject was on the table. In this law again, the Contribution Law is in the Government; and again, by different reasons, as it is in several other Lawes of this Government, they are not fulfilling the Terms. In the Law of Places Organization, which has been cited at the present day, under the Contribution of the Basque People, it was required that they should report the proper and financial jurisdictions of different kinds of institutions, as the foundation of making the Laws of Confederation. Our object was clearly to protect the local institution and to submit the report to the regulation, because it is essential for us to guarantee the autonomy of the councils, and consequently the amount of financing which is so important to develop their activity. Therefore, since the House Organization had been accepted, and the law itself had the duty of examining the rights and finances in a year's term, as we were thus impelled by the Chinese, we asked the Government for this report, when the time was completed in the legislature. And the chairman of the department answered and repeated several times to-day, but that was how it was that she preferred to make a souary report which would help her to make a good and lasting law of the contributors, rather than a formal deadline. And, thus, claiming the report that was to serve as the basis for the drafting of the new Law on Contributions and after more than a year of delay, we arrived at the summer of this year 2018, in which we knew that report. And then, more in the autumn, we were in the Government's presentation of the report in this Parliament. It is well known that for Euskal Herria Bildu the report submitted does not respond to what was agreed in the Local Institutions Act. And we said it at the Government's appearance. We said that it was necessary to clarify the framework of own competences and the financing of the various institutional levels, in order to ensure a proper distribution of public expenditure, that that, rather than another, was the agreed purpose of the report, because we believe that it is necessary to know the current situation of our institutions well and, thereby, to improve and correct what is necessary, whatever is necessary in order to ensure a sufficient level of funding and in line with the competences of each level. Because, after the adoption of the Local Institutions Act, a fair and correct distribution of resources is even more necessary, which responds to the needs of the institutions and to the reality of their competences, because it is well known that the different institutional levels have already been demanding it for a long time. We made that very clear from the Basque People in the Union, but we're here. Here we are awaiting a new law of contributors and a bad report that will be used as a work tool. The government has already said that in this year's Euscal Financial Council they want to agree with a course of methodology for the House of Confederations, and that the technical team is also at work, and that this is what they agreed on in the last meeting, to agree with methodology. We know when we collect the Basque People that this law is not a common law, and that it's not only for fun but that it's bound to be in the Basque Financial Council. We know... But the report mentioned itself explains that all the institutions develop directly their powers, and that they have a proper fund for it, so that, according to this famous report, there is no problem at all. They are, of course, the discords between different institutions, and this is not new. It is not a new thing to discuss the jurisdictions of the institutions, and the financial necessities of each, for this dispute is in the heart of the controversy about the internal organisation of the EAE. No one doubts that a new Law of Contributions is required, a balanced Law. Moreover, since the Office of the Places Organization was approved, the elections were involved in the Finning Council. We have a clear notion of the law of the People in the United States, because it is the fundamental law of the Confederations to make popular policies. We know that this law determines how the means which may be used may be distributed between the different degrees of the institutions, settles, after all, what are the resources which every organization has in hand, and which are in its possession? That's why we're saying that we have to be the law of the national view, a law separated from a partial point of view at each level of organization. You will have to cultivate the consent of the institutions in the Basque Financial Council, and the laws will have to give proper answers to different classes of institutions; but we know that this law has its peculiarities, not only because it must be the law of the consent of the institutions, but also of the treatment which ought to be here in the legislature. This is a one-reading law. And when things are as they are, the government will have to work on other consents, and the report which will be based on the law of the contributors does not easily put things into motion. So we see from the Basque People gathering that we must demand the Government to fulfil the legal calendar he had established for himself. Not so much in this law as in all others, because there are so many of them with significant delays. And that's what we're going to do here today, especially with the Book of Contributions. I know that the government will maintain its course and that it is possible, even in the Basque Financial Council, not to comply with the terms agreed upon by so many others. It would not be the first time in the Book of Contribution. We know that the government will continue to do so, and that, at the most, they will arrive at the Basque Financial Council this year. But in this way we vote for the original proposition, because we need tools necessary to develop the national policies, and because the law is necessary to strengthen the autonomy of the municipal councils which is our purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing on the answers, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u78	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Pinedo and Mr Bollain, who, on behalf of the EH Bildu Group and on behalf of the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, will support this simple motion that we have tabled here today. That, in fact... for you do not have much news, Mrs Castelo; the arguments are the same. It is that, when one is right and when what he says is true, it is not necessary to invent different arguments or new occurrences. You must have a joke with a magic wand, which strikes and draws arguments for each debate, but I prefer to be much more boring, much sadder and much more regular. We have been insisting on all opposition groups and today it will be approved by a majority. Look at you, groups as different as Elkarrekin Podemos, EH Bildu and the People's Party. Groups so different that they all agree to demand that the Government keep its word. That's all! And you, I understand that you have a piece of paper, because you have to come down here to defend a motion on behalf of the groups that support the government, and I look, I look, I am sorry and I keep looking at the photos of the various meetings of the Basque Finance Council, and there I see no representative of the Socialist Party; they are all of the Basque Nationalist Party, and I have never said that it is the Government, the groups of the Government, the government parties, or not! that it is the Basque Nationalist Party, Mrs Castelo. And I sympathize with you for having to come down here and have to defend something that is neither coming nor coming, but which makes you responsible for an irregularity. Irregularity to extend the law. I didn't say it was illegal, no. I said that Mr Azpiazu came here and joyfully said: I miss the deadline that the Local Institutions Act of Euskadi imposes, of a year, because it is better to skip the deadline to get a good deal. Okay, that's committing an illegality. And it is not the only one, because the law on local institutions in Euskadi requires another series of compliances that the Basque Finance Council has not done, such as setting – because it says that it must, not that it can, that it must fix, and that law is already in force – a minimum percentage of the collection, of the own resources of each of the outlaws, that it must devote to the local entities in Euskadi. And it has not; it remains a recommendation. It says'should'; you have to fix it: it has to be an equal percentage for the three historical territories. In the debate on that law – Mr Erkoreka will remember it perfectly – it was a point of much discussion among the different operators who were present there. But, in the end, the final wording adopted by the House was chosen. Then, they are committing i-le-ga-li-da-des, besides i-re-gu-la-ri-da-des... You have the custom, from the Basque Nationalist Party, of always blaming others. It is the fault of Madrid, because the quota is not approved. Hey, that's it! It's just that I don't know who, because I don't know... It's the experts' fault, they haven't made the report. Damn it, but it's not you who have to sit down and do the report. Do you know what the problem is, Mrs. Gorospe? That, in this case, you continue with the usual clumsiness of blaming someone else. But that's the other one, the Basque Nationalist Party. They're exactly the same... And it is you who are failing, because it is you who are leading the institutions that, within the Basque Finance Council, have to bring the report here. Of course, I urge the Basque government, man, because it leads the Basque Finance Council. What do you want me to ask, the Olentzero? Bring him to us before the end of the year? Bring us the bill? No, man, no, I have to ask the Basque Government. Who are we gonna ask if we don't? I could ask the Basque Nationalist Party, yes, but they would say no, that it is not legally foreseen that it is the PNV that has to bring that agreement, but that it is the institutions that are present – which, on the other hand, are not four, there are five – in the Basque Finance Council and that have an obligation to bring that project here. Legal obligation! And besides, Mrs. Gorospe, if they weren't going to do it, if they weren't going to do it, why did they say they were going to do it? Because I have hated it in the previous legislature, Mr Gatzagaetxebarria and Mr Erkoreka, in this legislature, Mr Azpiazu, but it is in the legislative calendar, which is another of the little lies that I am going to propose all these laws for this year, bah, that is not true, that we are not going to comply with it!, but that is very nice and we are going to propose it. No, no, You proposed it and you have to comply, and today the House is asking you to comply. And do you know what your problem is, apart from an agreement or an internal brawl within your party? They are unable to summon the majority to carry out that project; the problem is that they do not have a model. Because if you had a specific country model, a power distribution model, a competence distribution model, a public finance distribution model, you would have come to that agreement a long time ago, but what you have is an obsession to co-sponsor power. And with that, we do not go forward, and with that, not only do the laws fail, but the word given. And to me that the government fails to keep the word given seems rather embarrassing, Mrs Gorospe.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arbulo, you have a concern every time you come out to this rostrum with the papers I have to play in this rostrum. I don't perform any paperwork. You won't like what I tell you, or you won't like me having more arguments than you, but that's your problem and I've told you many times from this rostrum. You have not justified in this intervention, as Mr Damborenea did in the previous year, absolutely no argument for this amendment of the Act on Contributions. It is true that it comes to you very well that from February 2017 to October 2018 the Law of Contributions was lost to you. Now they're taking it back. Man, I did not doubt when they presented it after the questioning, and seeing the failure of the motions by either Podemos or EH Bildu, who, in this case, despite the arguments given by the spokesman of EH Bildu, who, according to his argument maintained fundamentally also with what you had commented in the previous debate that we had in this House, in February 2017, gave the impression that he understood that the Basque Finance Council has to carry that agreement, and that, therefore, at this time, to urge the House of Parliament to force the Government to submit a preliminary draft law that cannot be complied with, since, if the Basque Finance Council does not reach that agreement in advance, and his commitment is to do so before the end of the year, it is difficult for the Government – and you have said it – to present it, since its will is conditioned. Therefore, following your argument, I find it incongruent that you are going to support the original amendment, the original proposal, which I believe is what I have understood you, but it is true that part of what was said for you at that time – it has repeated it today, and it is true – we share it; we need to know well the issues of how this Law of Contributions has worked. It is a law that is in extension, legal extension, without any kind of problem and without any kind of irregularity. When it can be replaced by another, we will have a new law; in the meantime, we operate with the one we know. Then you said, you need to know well, yes. For what? In order to correct what is necessary, to ensure fundamentally an objective exclusively, that is the adequate and fair financing of public services to be provided to citizens. It is therefore true that we share with all groups in the House the need for a new Law on Contributions, and it is true that we believe that this law must also be based on a country perspective and institutional loyalty and away from party interests or the partial visions of each of the institutions. So, so far, everyone agrees. What we no longer understand is that today, on 22 November, I think we can approve in this Parliament that the Basque Government is submitting a preliminary draft law before 31 December, because you know that this is not feasible. It will be very good for the leader, and it will be the vote that has been lost by the groups supporting the government on this full day, but you know that it will not have any virtuality; therefore, that Mr Arbulo told me that the Socialists do not go, nor do they come, because it goes and comes to us. It is not that we leave or come to this debate specifically with regard to your motion, because I say to you that we have talked little about concrete content. But we are going, and we are going a long way, to have a new Law on Contributions in which in the background good funding is collected for all three levels of institutions, away from those partisan struggles or those partisan interests that seem to you to seem to be a perfect option to be able to reach an agreement. What we ask in our amendment, even though it will not be supported by the rest of the groups, is that the Basque Finance Council does comply with that commitment it has, and that before the end of 2018 we can have an approved methodology. Last thought. At the time, when we discussed here a year and a half ago, the party of Elkarrekin Podemos, the spokesman, did not tell us of any argument as to how the Law of Contributions had to be amended. At that time, his speech was more than we needed a tax reform; that was his argument. Today we are, I think, six months away from a municipal election. Well, today we have had a vision of defending the Law of Contributions from municipalism; why will it be? Well, I don't know, but it makes me think.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u82	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mrs. Pindo, we've just had a report from ETEL that we've had occasion to discuss, it's your opinion, it's a bad idea... but we took the test, and now we'll have to insert it, and we'll have to consider it. It's an opinion and well, we respect it. Bollain jauna, ben duzuna, amendment which says nothing, an amendment, eta nik esan behar disudana, that what our amendment says is that we respect what they have unanimously decided in an interinstitutional body where they are representatives of all the institutional levels of the Basque Country elected in the exercise of representative democracy. Por drop, where the time is, as I said before, is not yet full, and we have nothing else to say but respect. That is all we have to say. The lawman shouldn't ask him to do what you can't do, just like you're willing to do. Mr. Ruiz de Abulo, I'd like to talk about two things from your interference. On the one hand, you said "ustes están obsessions con buscar cupables." I have never mentioned them, and you will seldom hear them from my mouth 'culpable' and 'culpa'; I do not like them. I think what I have said to you is that this general examination of the causes, whether in the quapo, or in the ETEL, was to be made; what periods have elapsed, and while this was done, it was impossible to agree with this new method of method in the Basque Council of Common-wealths, and consequently that it was impossible for the Parliament to present between them a bill of law. But I have not said a word; I have said what reasons are, and when we have obtained different agreements. Eta azkenerako, of which they have no model, "you have no country model, you have no financing model". Look, me whenever you want. Look, our model is called the Basque model of sustainable human development, and whenever you want; with two minutes thirty seconds it doesn't give me to be able to make an analysis compared to data from different indicators, both of the economic and financial situation of the results that the model that is being carried out from the Basque Government is giving, as what is the economic and financial situation of Euskadi and what is the economic and financial situation of many other places where you govern. Any time we want to do a comparative analysis. When you want we also make a comparative analysis of the level of well-being of Basque society and what is the level of well-being with objective indicators – you can choose the indicators you want – and what is the level of well-being in different areas of those places where you are ruling. I also challenge you, if you wish, that we can make a comparative analysis of the level of economic development in Euskadi and the level of economic development elsewhere. How can you say we don't have models? We have a model, called the Basque model of sustainable human development, which works well, which has had good results in its economic situation, in the financial situation, in the level of well-being and in the level of economic development, and, above all, in the level of satisfaction, which also has points of improvement and which the Government of the Lehendakari Urkullu is fully using for this purpose. Eskerrik asko, president andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Bollain, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u84	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mrs Castelo said that earlier in the debate on this subject, we were talking about tax reform. Logically – only the appearances I have made and the position of our group on this year's budgets, including the negotiating platform such as fiscal reform, must be followed – it is still necessary for us, and the previous time we have already said so. For Elkarrekin We can, not only talk about, when we talk about the Law of Contributions, how the cake is distributed, but also about the size of the cake. And we understand that the cake must be much bigger than it is now. Simply by making a simple calculation, if we equal Euskadi's fiscal pressure to the average of the European fiscal pressure, we would make more than EUR 6 billion a year. So, no doubt, this is an interesting point for us. What happens is that I didn't think today was the day to divert a motion with a very simple point, which had a very clear direction, which was to urge the Government to bring the bill of contributions before the end of the year. And if you are so concerned that I defend municipalism this time, I do not know why you do not defend it and why you defend the interests of the Basque Nationalist Party in the municipalities in this sense and its municipalism, its 'auzolan', which Mrs Gorospe said had models, which had a model country. I have already told you from the beginning in my first intervention that from Elkarrekin We can bet on a country where municipalism, far from being the 'Auzolana' for which this government advocates, is not understood as this government does. A municipalism that gives municipalities and local entities the place that they really deserve as administration closer to citizenship. But do you know what's going on? That gives the impression at least that the Basque Nationalist Party does not renew the Law on Contributions to be able from the deputies to keep those municipalities and municipalities that are not on their political ropes; come on, to weave a client network based on the aid granted to the municipalities. And that's how you do it, that's how the Basque Nationalist Party understands municipal politics, something very different from what we understand from Elkarrekin Podemos. This is how you understand it: to give yours and to put the rope around the neck of those who are not yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. I was very clear in my first presentation that we were going to vote in favour of the People's Party proposal. Then, those arguments of who you agree with, don't you agree with another..., I won't be the one to get into those arguments because I haven't agreed with the People's Party. That, if you have to agree, because I'm not going to drop the rings because I think we're in politics to try to get the things that we consider fair ahead. But, well, let that go ahead. Begira, Mrs Castelo came into my argument, and of course I have used similar arguments, just as you have used arguments similar to those used in the previous debate, and I was told that I saw some inconsistency between my argument and my group's vote. Look, there is no inconsistency, and for a very simple question: I have said it, and it is also that in my own speech I have said it very clearly that I know what is going to happen, and that at the very end of the year we will have an agreement on the methodology at the Basque Finance Council. But I've said a lot. And why did I say so much? Because this is not the first time that the Basque Finance Council has committed itself to something in relation to the Act on Contributions and does not comply with it. And I don't mean this legislature. Even in the previous legislature there were also discussions at the Basque Finance Council regarding the Law on Contributions, and for one thing or another – and I have said this in my speech – that I don't care which, for one or the other. The reason is that we are in 2018 and the Law of Contributions is not on the table. And you know what's going on? That is that I belong to an opposition group and therefore my role is to control the government. And I said in my speech that I believe that the government has to comply with its own legislative timetable, and I know perfectly well what this law has behind it. Of course I know, of course I know, but the government committed itself to bringing this law in a specific period, not only in this legislature, but even in the previous one, in which you were not in this House, and I remember many conversations with Mr Gatzagaetxebarria regarding this law and I could understand more, less or half about why this law was not coming. "Pero la realidad es que tu es es esta encima de la mesa, y creemos que tenemos que hacerle que to put all its force on the table to bring a good law into this parliament." And the government knows also what manner of treatment this law has, and that it is necessary to seek companions. And I said when I spoke: That famous report, what you're saying, the report based on the City Local Organizations law,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u87	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u88	EH Collect said that report was a bad start. It's bad to keep that report on the table because he doesn't answer what the law told him. And I've heard a lot of explanations about the report, and you said you had to read it with love on the committee, and you said today too. I read a report the way I have to read it, and read it deeply. Yes, I read it deeply, perhaps with another depth, because your glasses and mine are different, Mrs. Castellao. That's obvious. But the law is necessary, and when we accepted the local organizations law with the government, the government knows why we agreed to this law, and we accepted it because the local institutions need a certain funding. It is true, that we continue to talk about financing, and here at some point even some people have been forgotten that the municipalities and the local entities are sitting on the Basque Finance Council, some people have been forgotten because they do not want to remember, and, obviously, we have to change the Law of Contributions because our municipalities one day yes and another are also demanding more funding, and it is not worth going with the tale that they have a way of raising local taxes because that is said in football diverting out of the field. That's what you're doing. Unfortunately, that report says that everything is fine, and if everything is fine, one does not just understand why there is no agreement. And I assure you that it will not be just for the local administrations; look at you in the parliaments to see what happens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Now that the discussion is over, we'll put Ruiz de Arboulo, the original text of Mr. Cerio's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u90	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "To discuss these other proposals as follows, and to take up the resolution once and for all: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parliamentary group together, concerning the future of the valley of Cuelgamourose. To discuss and to decide once and for all." "Go and collect the proposition of the parliamentary band, that in the Valley of the fallen the men of Euscal, who are unjustly buried, are called Euscal. " Team proposeer's turn. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u91	Good afternoon, congressmen. For our team, today's discussion is not just about history. He replies chiefly to democratic dignity, to democratic dignity, and to its fundamental rights. For this reason we have brought a non-law proposal on the Valley of Cuelgamuros, rebaptized by the franchisors as the Valley of the Fallen. The reason for our initiative is democratic dignity and commitment to the defence of values and human rights. Basically, we are talking about a mass grave of enormous proportions in which the remains of thousands of people killed or killed for political reasons lie, and also lie there against the will of their families. We think there are few things more denigrating than this. But this obvious and palmary violation of the most elementary humanitarian sense is not something that has happened and is already there. That is why today this initiative seeks to ensure that truth, justice and reparation for so much harm are finally met. This initiative seeks to dignify the situation of thousands of people killed and also seeks to dignify democratic values. Or is it possible that mausoleums of genocidal dictators and genocidal dictatorships persist in a democracy? Because the existence of a great mausoleum dedicated to exalting a dictatorship, a dictator and the totalitarian ideas that these imposed through an extremely violent repression and persecution is totally unacceptable and completely undemocratic. It is macabre to lift a mausoleum with slave labour in honor of a dictatorship over the remains of its victims, a dictatorship that ended a democratic republic and for 40 years curtailed civil, political, sexual orientation rights and the most elementary fundamental freedoms. That is why we and we believe that it is excellent news that this initiative that we are bringing is going to come out today with the support of a large majority of this Parliament. The discordant note seems to be that it will be put by the People's Party, which yesterday had a regrettable attitude in the Senate. We believe that the People's Party is going to remain alone on an issue that, as I said, is of democratic dignity and fundamental rights for us. Because today we are not talking about the battles of the grandfather who so despises the new president of the People's Party. We are talking about a flagrant violation of human rights in the present. A flagrant violation of rights here and now. Hemen is gold. This isn't about yesterday. It is about us today and, above all, in view of the rise of the extreme right of our morning, of a morning in which there is no margin to the extreme right, nor a millimeter of cesion to those who want to return to our darkest past, nor a millimeter to fascist parties in a Europe broken by neoliberalism and austerity. The Valley of the Fallen is today a place with all the paraphernalia proper to the Catholic national dictatorship. It is a place of exaltation of the dictator. It is a place of worship of the fascist court party that supported the coup. And, above all, it is a centre of humiliation to the victims of genocide. Today, in 2018, the remains of thousands of victims of the dictatorship lie in that place against their will, against the will of their families, of their friends, of their comrades. They lie under a huge cross nailed like a sword to remind us that they are still prisoners, to remind us that opposing the unique and uniform idea that the fascists imposed with blood is punished, repressed, paid at the highest price. 43 years since the dictator died. And it is, therefore, in the opinion of our group, our responsibility, of the present society and of the institutions of the present to allow or not to allow an aberration like the Valley of the Fallen to survive, which is used to make apologia of the dictatorship that we suffer in this country. Look, a few days ago the writer Isaac Rosa – surely they know him – wrote that the existence of the Valley of the Fallen was not an inheritance of the dictatorship, but a responsibility of democracy. I think he was right. If the Valley of the Fallen remains what it is today, it is because it is being allowed to be so and that has to end. Today, it is important to move from indignation to the proposition; to move from indignation at the normal defachation with which a cruel dictatorship is exalted and to move to the proposition, to propose that this not continue to happen. That is the objective of this initiative and others that we are carrying in different institutions, let this not be normal every 20 November. Do the institutions and the public authorities not have the responsibility and the moral and political duty to avoid the rise of Francoism? The reality today is bloody in this regard. The same normality with which these anti-democratic values are exalted, with which the streets are kept with names of genocides and murderers, contrasts with the normality with which freedom of opinion is pursued when questioning the monarchy or privileges of the Church, among other issues. That is why we have proposed in Congress, and also here today, that we act once and for all, that we not continue to tolerate for any longer what is in itself intolerable, so that this place will be resigned and become a public place to explain the history of the coup d'état and the long dictatorship that we have suffered for 40 years; a place that is focused on building a culture of peace and human rights, just the antithesis of what the Valley of the Fallen means today, the antithesis of the values of Francoism, dictatorship and national Catholicism. And this cannot be done by maintaining the symbolology of the dictatorship and the national-Catholic character of the enclosure. It cannot be done by allowing the nostalgic Francoists to travel there. It cannot be done if a religious congregation chosen by the dictator himself is left in charge of the enclosure. By the way, jets that live at the expense of the public. Above all, the most basic rights of the families of the victims of Francoism must be respected: the right to know the truth; the right to identify the remains of their mothers, grandparents, sisters, comrades, and to be able to remove them from there, to give them a dignified burial; and to do so – and this is very important – guaranteeing judicial protection of exhumation procedures, because thousands of people buried there are victims of crimes and therefore have the right to justice. Justice in the face of impunity today. The United Nations and other international bodies that have insisted on the need to clarify responsibilities, to clarify responsibilities in relation to the crimes of Francoism cannot be kept deaf in this regard. Timely judicial investigations must be carried out and crimes against humanity committed in our country must be tried, crimes which, under international law, neither prescribe nor can be amnestyed; crimes which, therefore, must be tried. Without justice there is no democracy. Without justice there will be no democracy. And finally, we ask the Basque Government to do its part in this matter, no more or less; its part, to ensure that the victims of Basque origin who are in the Valley can have truth, justice, memory and reparation, and to ensure that their remains can be exhumed and deposited, according to family members and also according to their organizations, in the case of militants of parties and trade unions, where it is appropriate to give them the recognition they deserve, recognition they deserve as victims, but also recognition they deserve as democrats. Our group cannot forget that the majority of these victims are by defending the democracy of the grips of fascism, that word that is so much being used these days. You can't be a Democrat without being anti-fascist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u92	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Antonio Arrillanaga Ugarte, Zulines key, Battalion militia, died in Zaragaz in November 1937. His body was buried in the cemetery of Torrero, and was carried to the Valley of fallen fallen at Cuelgamurros in 1961. The family knew where he was 45 years later. Since then they had to make a long journey in solitude to find Antonio. What a terrible job you're doing. Welcome to this parliament today. Lucas Ugarte Square was making a soldier when the war broke out. He died on the front of Levant, July 1938. Her mother, after great effort, succeeded in bringing her body to Toulouse. Then they carried him away, carried [him] away, carried [him] to the Valley of the fallen. It's an honor to have family with us. Jose Arocist Soia, from the district of Toulouse, when she was 20, had been recruited by fascists in Toulouse by force. December 28, 1937, died in Teruel. He's buried in a Hobi bathroom. He was taken to the Falling Valley in 1962. Welcome to the Avarice Family, to have a pleasure with us. Franco died in 1975 on a day like yesterday. He's in the valley of the fallers, a giant mausoleum to celebrate the francism. As Franco said, it was built to remember his glorious cross, and to remember the succeeding generations which gave them a better Spain. In all this, 33.847 bodies were buried there. Some were taken with the approval of the families of the regime, but the combatants against fascism had been stolen, carried away by hostages to the backs of their families, and in the whole number of 12.410. But I also think that they also need a special reference to the people of the fascists who had been forced to fight with them. The fall Valley is the largest bathroom of Spain State. Because it is not only a symbol of the Francoism employed by fascists for their exaltation, as we are seeing these days; it is also a symbol of the suffering of thousands of victims of Francoism, of fascism, brought there clandestinely, to bury them again without honor, without name, behind theirs, dispossessed of their identity and, therefore, of their dignity. Among them, 1,195 are citizens of Euskal Herria. Nafarroa already started his way to recover them; at least they managed to return 133 of those bodies that had been stolen from various mass graves by Francoist officials to fill the Columbars of the Valley of the Fallen. It was 1980 and they called the operation a return to the one carried out by mayors of several Navarro villages, taking the initiative and claiming the bodies in Madrid. Today, in Nafarroa they have taken more steps; they have a law of historical memory that regularizes these and other initiatives, gives them legal protection, converts public policies of memory into imperative policies, into obligations for the administration. In these three countries we have made no such course; we do not know the identity of the militia, soldiers, republicans, who are in the pit of Cuelgamurros; their families have not received the protection of the institutions, nor have they any law to maintain their rights for historical memory; their families cannot have the truth, justice, and observation. We take a step with this PNL today, but unfortunately we can't quite protect him. Of course, we agree that a thorough public investigation will be carried out to identify these people. Of course, we want the necessary administrative efforts to exhume and repatriate to Euskal Herria the remains of Republicans, militiamen, Gudaris, all the Basque citizens who took their land and their families. Of course, we want them to be placed in locations close to their own, existing or to be built, but with the participation of their families, their families, their organizations, so that these victims have all their recognition and reparation. But, as I was saying, unfortunately, we have encountered a difficulty. We cannot be pleased that this work is rooted in Gogora, as it has been introduced in the transaction; not with the powers it currently has, not with the ways of acting and with the attitudes it maintains, because the families have expressed to us the absolute lack of sensitivity that Gogora has shown towards their demands, because they are not satisfied with the null disposition they have found to welcome them and to accompany them, because they have not felt any empathy on the part of Gogora to facilitate them, to attend to them in that fight that they started too long ago and that they are still forced to develop alone. Perhaps, and here is the crux of the matter, because Gogora works at a stroke of voluntarism; because it reacts when, as and about what it wants; and it does so because we do not have a law of historical memory, drafted by this Parliament, that sends a clear, direct mandate to Gogora of what it should or should not do; because there must be an imperative obligation to act, that it should do so by legal mandate, not depending on the will or perhaps the whim of those responsible. We need a law of historical memory that gives shelter to the victims of Francoism and equals those who are most recognized and repaired. As a family member of the victims of Francoism, a law of the victims of Francoist terrorism, said, that is exactly what we are demanding. These victims, like many others, have felt themselves alone, without protection, in the villages they have sought refuge; some have been obliged to organize themselves; some have formed the association of relatives for the removal of the Republicans of his fall, of the family of Asociación de Hermación de los Republicanos del Valle de los Cados, who is doing an extraordinary work. They were obliged to submit to the institutions of Madrid to the Ministry of Justice, to find only legal and administrative objections. They have gone to the National Patrimonic, who owns the Valley of fall, and they have found in it all sorts of technical difficulties and obstacles, of city-making, only architects. They've also had to fight in the courts in front of the courts. They've got at least one side sentence, but they don't have any experience at all to carry that sentence technically forward. And in this long, laborious career the hardest has not been able to protect him, he has not guessed how to help him, and that is why we are going to abstain from him at the first point. Because the will is not enough for us, remember that high school has to be regulated by a law of historical memory, because it has to be ordered. Let's go this way. The victims of Francism in the valley of the fall have been obliged to wait for 55 years; it is 43 years since Franco died, and we have not yet invented an appropriate answer to the family, and I think it will be enough for them, Antonio, Lucas, Joseph, and other citizens of euscala, let us make the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u94	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u95	I left it on. Good morning – good morning, already noon – to all and everyone. Firstly, to welcome those victims and associations who may be watching this debate, who are victims not only of Francoism, but also, in particular, of this perverse obsession which was called the Valley of the Fallen, because nothing is casual or involuntary in this valley. The dictator Francisco Franco designed it as a symbol of his crusade and of his national-Catholic Spain; it was his decision and it was his obsession. The 1940 Decree stated: "The dimension of the crusade cannot be perpetuated by the simple monuments with which it usually commemorates in towns and cities. It is necessary that the stones that rise have the greatness of the ancient monuments, so that future generations pay tribute of admiration to the heroes and martyrs of the crusade." This was proclaimed by Franco and is therefore the monument, as they constituted, of the victory of national Catholicism. It has been said the numbers of people who have unfortunately been victims, who without any permission or consideration were killed for the second time by filling them in the face of the lack of volunteers of the fallen of the national side without permission of their family members, using them as a building block for filling in this pantheon, and they re-killed them in this way, because they exhumed corpses of the republican side, people shot or killed in the front where, after being killed, I insist, they re-killed them on the second occasion by taking them to share that tomb of filling with those fallen by God and Spain and with General Franco. The complex built and called Valley of the Fallen constitutes one of the Francoist accounts of the Second Civil War and its dictatorship. One of the most paradigmatic, but not any account, is one of the most abominable that exists, because of this perversion that I have previously said of using human lives as an element of construction and as human resources for more than 20 years, of using the political prisoners anti-Franquists captives of war and Republicans who worked in extreme conditions of wind, cold, hunger, humiliation and exploitation. Many remained there; others survived and had the grace to be considered sinners, who were left in prison for redeeming their affronts to the powerful with work and sacrifice. It is the story of infamy, I insist, a Francoist story of a Francoist only story with a fascist title. The Valley of the Fallen. We therefore repeat from the Socialist Group that we must put an end to all that story and all that monster, to that perversion that has been with us for a long time. We have said this, and it has been pointed out what decisions are taken in the compromise amendment. Firstly, I would like to express my gratitude to the proposing groups, because it is a debate well brought to a plenary of the Basque Parliament, because it finally deepens the historical memory claims that have never left the institutions, the memorialist organizations and the historical organizations that suffered Franco and Franco, and measures are already being taken. Just two months ago, on 14 September, it was agreed by the Congress of Deputies, with the vast majority of political forces, to take Franco out of there, because neither Hitler nor Mussolini are buried with honors, nor will Franco continue to be buried in Cuelgamuros or Almudena. I do not want to overlook the scenario that has often been drawn in the imaginary treatment of the Valley of the Fallen that it is a space of reconciliation. It is not a space of reconciliation and it will never be a space of reconciliation, because – let me have a humble opinion – it cannot be a symbol of reconciliation, which is an example and a model of fascist repression and humiliation of its victims. That was intended by dictator Franco himself before the inauguration, but he himself betrayed himself in his speech, in which he said: "They did not sacrifice our dead their precious lives so that we may rest. Anti-Spain was defeated but is not dead. You have to be careful. Periodically we'll see her raise her head again and we'll have to lower her." At least, said this, I do not want for myself or for my relatives, any of them victims of Francoism, that is reconciliation, a reconciliation that humiliates us. Everything they have said before is true; nothing has changed. It seems that the Frankish exaltation monster has remained as if in formole. Absolutely nothing. Today, as yesterday, the dictator's tomb remains in the preferred place on the temple cruise, under the immense dome with more than five million theseles telling the story of a Spain, only one Spain, the Francois. Today as yesterday, but I must say that I hope not for long now. In the meantime, however, it has already been said: the relatives of the people who went against their will buried there remain unable to identify, exhume and move their relatives to their places of origin. It is time – it has already been said by Mr Hernández – it is time to end – I say otherwise – with the monster and with everything he means. It has to be now and now, and it has to be without looking back. We will identify the remains of the victims of Francoism buried there, and we will proceed to their exhumation and transfer in accordance with the will of their relatives. Now I would also play the resignification of that monster. But let me say my humble opinion: I believe that little more, apart from honoring the victims who are there, eliminate all the Francoist and fascist elements, remove them from the places of pilgrimage to honor the dictator and care for the victims, little more can be done with the Valley of the Fallen. Maybe it's time to leave him there forever and let him end up alone. Because I find it difficult that at some point, as has been proposed, this is a monument to concord, let alone a monument to all the victims, when all the victims were not treated equally or have been treated all these years. We are prepared, with this and other initiatives that are taking place in this Parliament, but above all also in the Congress of Deputies – mentioned Mr Hernández, and in addition there is a special presentation made to deal with the reform of the Historical Memory Law – to collect the contributions of all political groups and act in this way with courage and clear the horizon, letting the wind of history finally take away the hatred that also generates this monstrous pantheon, and that its sinister memory dilutes forever in the aroma of the jars that perfume, that is, the Valley of Cuelgamuros. It is no longer time to hesitate – it is true – it has been a long time and we focus here on the adoption of this compromise amendment, within the powers that we can exercise from this Parliament, to achieve what we can to contribute to the elimination of that monster. I insist, there are many doubts that ask me what can be done with the Valley of the Fallen, once we are able to meet the demands of the family members and eliminate the symbols of Franco's exaltation. But yes, let me say that I share with Mr Hernández that what is clear, regardless of the resignification that will be done after taking these measures, is that democracy is incompatible with Francoism. Democracy is not built as long as we have monuments like the so-called Valley of the Fallen; democracy is not built with the silence of the victims. Let us all build together a memory that is involved in democratic values, civic virtues, human rights, coexistence and dialogue, contributing to the prevention of violence, the promotion of peace and the strengthening of our democracy. I also share what he said in the speech: let us put an end to the hatred so that the wound will stop bleeding, but opening the wound to clean it up to the bottom, because so far we have not cleaned it up. Because memory, I insist – I said on the previous occasion that I had the opportunity to debate – is not built against anyone; it does not offend anyone, but benefits the whole of society. The Valley of the Fallen, like any monument, is that to me it seems particularly atrocious of the exaltation of fascism, in this case of Francoism; it can never be understood as an act of memory, but as an act of memory and humiliation to all the victims who suffered the Civil War and the dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero is your word. FRAMEUR-ESECDERIO ISUSI After 43 years of the death of Franco dictator, there is time for Harane to remember dictator and franchise, and it is time for them to be identified by the corpses of the Basques who are buried there, and if the families were willing, they should be removed from the tombs. On April 28, 45, Fascist dictator Mussolini was shot in Italy. He was arrested the day before. He spent his first and last night in prison, and during that night a speech from the partisan radio indicated in the voice of Sandro Pertini, who would then be president of the Italian Republic, who had to shoot Mussolini as if he were a rabid dog. They listened to him; the next day he was shot, and his body hung from the iron beam of a gas station in a square in Milan for several hours. Two days later, on 30 April, his fellow Nazi dictator Hitler was shooting himself in the right temple, and his body was quickly burned with gasoline to prevent Russians entering the other end of the city from taking that body. In Euskadi and Spain there was less luck, because dictator Franco survived Hitler and Mussolini 30 years, and died in the year 75. Two days ago, 43 years of his death were fulfilled. And he died doing things right, as he had done, that is, killing and murdering all kinds of political adversary. It should not be forgotten that 50 days before his death he signed the death sentence of five people, in what was known as the last crimes of Francoism, and that they were the execution of three FRAP militants and ETA militants Txiki and Otaegi. Why have I set the example of Germany and Italy? I have set this example because we have to recognize that we are not doing anything new; that is, there were two countries, Italy and Germany, which more than 70 years ago made them erase the whole trace of fascism and Nazism in their lives, and, obviously, if we walk through any Italian or German public space, we will not only realize that there is no element that emphasizes fascism or any element that remembers it – there is no monolith, no statue, no sculpture, no plaque – but there are also laws that prohibit any kind of exaltation, of Nazism in Germany and of fascism in Italy, in any public way. And we return here to the main point of this matter, and it is that the Valley of the Fallen does not belong to the Benedictines or to a private foundation; it belongs to the Spanish State, that is, it is part of the National Heritage, with which it has even more inri, that is, that it is not a place in which some people do what they want, but they are enjoying public facilities whose maintenance is also paid with public money and which serve only to exalt the figure of a person who revealed himself against the legality of the Second Republic, who provoked a war that lasted three years and cost 1 million dead, and that, as we have just said with the shooting of ETA and FRAP, he continued to kill up to just 50 days before he died quietly in bed. What do we ask in this proposal that we bring today? Three very simple things: the first, to exhume the remains of Franco del Valle de los Fallidos, to be handed over to the family and to be buried by the family in the private place that gives them the desire; secondly, we also ask that all the architectural iconography that recalls fascism, all the elements that remind them of war, militia, fascism and all kinds of national-Catholic ideology be removed; and, thirdly, what we also ask is that while these two elements are being done someone in the Government of Spain thinks about what is going to be done with that place, which, as Rafi Romero said, obviously has few visions of serving as a reconciliation of something after their partisan use in recent decades. We also have another issue in this proposal that we bring today, which is the fate of the remains of the Basques who are in the Valley of the Fallen. Many times when we urge something or someone, it seems that we are urging them to do something that has not yet been done. I would like to recall that in this case, when Gogora did not yet exist, the Basque Government, in 2002 already, commissioned the Aranzadi society to investigate who they were, how many they were and how the remains of these Basques were. After six years of investigation, in which only the archives of the Benedictines, who are the priests who are in the Abbey of the Valley of the Fallen, were available, Aranzadi gives the Basque Government in 2008 a report in which he says that there are 1,295 Basques and Basques buried in the Valley of the Falles, of which 450 are unidentified; that is, that the Basque Government had already been 16 years behind the matter, had already investigated and commissioned a report, and had already had the report done. We are completely in favour, obviously, because it is like a second defeat after shooting a person and, when he no longer knows it, he will finally accompany the remains of the dictator in the Valley of the Fallen. We fully agree that further research should be carried out, that the 450 persons whose remains are not identified in Cuelgamuros should be defined, and that, through Gogora and the Basque Government, their exhumation of the Valley of the Fallen should be attempted and, of course, that they should come to Euskadi to be either in the columbarium of Elgoibar or in the place where their family members wish to be. And we do this on the basis of two very clearly identified issues: the first is the truth of historical memory; and, secondly, for the dignity, for the ethical dignity of the people who died in the war and also – and all of you come in there – for the ethical dignity of those who we consider proudly heirs of the people who lost the war. There have been some rather harsh words here from Mr Arzuaga for Gogora, and I believe that in 99% of the matter we all agree. So I do not think we should close any doors; we should say that we can continue to talk between you, Euskal Herria Bildu, the Basque Government, this Parliament and Gogora, and that there is no closed doors. And I would like to recall what I said earlier, that since 2002, that is, 16 years ago, the Basque Government had taken an interest in the matter and had commissioned Aranzadi to report on who and how many Basques and Basques were buried in Cuelgamuros. The glue is that this does not depend on us; it obviously depends on the Government of Spain. What we do from here is support; after 40 years with different governments in Madrid and none of them moved a finger on this issue, we have to support the decision of the General Courts of 14 September this year, two months ago, in which we were urged to what we asked here: exhume the remains of Franco, remove all the fascist and Francoist iconography of the Valley of the Fallen, and then, of course, decide what to do with that installation. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. The next round of the group that hasn't issued any correction, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u98	Thank you very much, President. Lehendakari, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Look, to make it clear, I don't like the Valley of the Fallen, I've never liked it, I've never been, I don't like its meaning and its aesthetics, and I would also bet on its resignification within the framework of the laws, of the performance in the Congress of Deputies; it will have to be done. But I also want to explain why I do not share the yes, or at least why my group is going to abstain on this initiative. From our point of view, or from my point of view, the proponents of these initiatives are once again committed to bringing to this Parliament as a non-legislative proposal issues that basically escape the regulation and ability of our institutions to act, or, at least, that require other actions in advance (read rules, read legal amendments), in order to then be able to act. For us it is basic that in relation to what we can do in an initiative of these characteristics, without being voluntarists: clinging to what can be done and what path must be taken, through the means that are made available, and now there are, and also – I say again – existing instruments in the Congress of Deputies itself in order to be able to materialize the vast majority of the issues that you propose here either normally or legally. On 24 August, the Government of Spain adopted the Royal Decree Law 10/2018, amending Law 52/2007 of 26 December 2007 on the recognition and extension of rights, establishing measures in favour of those who suffered persecution or violence during the civil war, the dictatorship: the Historical Memory Act. And, in that regard, no one has referred to itself as an important element of now parliamentary management. The Congress of Deputies, in its session of 13 September, agreed to validate the aforementioned Royal Decree Law and also agreed to its processing, as what? As a bill, with the same name and text, logically, and by urgency procedure. The urgency procedure can be spelled out in relation to how the procedure is going, and that bill is still in the process of amendments today, which ends tomorrow, precisely. I have read before that, if I have not seen it wrong, the procedure for amendments ends tomorrow, but, as 13 times the procedure for amendments in an urgent procedure has been postponed, because it is clear that it is possible to continue, and I do not know whether or not that deadline will be extended, but I believe that this is the procedure, the draft law, the way forward. And then, from here and from the institutions here, take the follow-up, the walk you can keep walking. All of you, in addition, have a parliamentary group in Congress, and all of you can work within the framework of that bill, to pronounce yourself as a law, on what you can only do here and want to do so as a declaration, in addition, without that necessary legal or regulatory adjustment and without legal effects and, in addition, having this bill, the Valley of the Falles, as a reference element also of your initiatives, as the main element on which to proceed with certain actions. That is, this bill mentions and refers to the Valley of the Fallen and its significance, and to what has to be done with it; 15 times it refers to the aforementioned place in the text of the bill. So there is a good political moment to move forward in the sense of what these initiatives are, but move forward legally in the Congress of Deputies, expand that normative framework, and then come here and take the initiatives, through Gogora or through the instruments that we can understand as timely, to move forward in that meaning. I mean, better location than that bill to make these claims doesn't exist today. Of course, it's not a non-law proposition. It is clear that in order to carry out the pretensions of the non-legislative proposal it is necessary to carry out certain normative reforms, and to that can be devoted, of course, because, I say again, they have that instrument. The claims, the requests which are the subject of the non-legislative proposal, also have such a technical, legal, budgetary, and even scientific dimension, which is not only based on a declaration of such an initiative, but which, because of its complexity, is required to reflect rules or legal instruments very different from this one. I'll say it again, if it doesn't exist? But that legal instrument exists and is a draft law in progress at the Congress of Deputies, where, moreover, it is clear that there is a very important and very qualified majority – the other has recently been abstentions – in relation to that possibility of approving all those instruments that you ask in this non-law proposal, I say again, without legal effects. And that legal instrument is at your disposal. Well, you appeal to Gogora's work, to collaboration with the Government of Spain, etc. I say again: it is valid, but, if the existing regulatory framework is not extended earlier today, nothing will have effect, as you well know. Anyway. I also want to say to Mrs Romero..., she has referred to the consideration of the Valley of the Fallen, as some speak, of a place of reconciliation, and she has absolutely ruled it out, right? I mean, he's ruled it out; he said it can't be that. I would like to say that the very statement of reasons that you have prepared, in relation to the bill amending Law 52/2007, the very statement of reasons, referring also to a non-law proposal, frames in its foundations as fundamental element, and says and recalls "with this we must proceed to resignify the role of the Valley of the Fallen so that it ceases to be a place of Francoist and national-Catholic memory and converts it into a space for the culture of reconciliation of democratic collective memory and dignity, recognition of the victims of civil war and dictatorship". That's what you say. I mean, that's what you say, and I think it's okay. I think it's okay. You're out of line with that. You can also amend; it is in the draft law phase, so you can also amend what you yourself have said. Well, from this Parliament we can ask for action from the autonomous institutions, but only in view of the extension of the existing rules. That's, that's clear. That has to be recognized in this way, and there is that possibility. And it is clear that the bill in process is necessary to reform it; it is quite clear that this bill – I believe it was that Royal Decree Law – is possible and it is necessary to reform it, from our point of view, and, in its case, to convert the Valley of the Fallen not into a justification for the sham and the disencounter, but into a new signification of reconciliation and consensus. We do think of that as the very explanatory statement of the bill says. From our point of view, the debate on the issue is not here; it is in the Congress of Deputies now, and it is timely. We here will abstain. And, of course, I have to say one thing with what has been said about Gogora. We – everyone knows this – are not Gogora's greatest advocates, from the beginning, for their conception. But we do understand or can understand that it is a good instrument of work, but for after those issues that are caught up with pins and pins today, Mr Hernández, they are concrete, they are definitely valued in a legal text, because they need to be concrete and valued in a legal text. And there's one going on and on. That'll be a good opportunity, and then we can talk about what Gogora has to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u99	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing on the answers, together Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u100	Sí. Mr Barrio, you, every time we have a debate on these kinds of issues, you usually argue or bring in initiatives that have nothing to do with the competences that we can have in Euskadi, or you tell us that we have to make legal reforms in this respect. The initiative agreed today is aimed at the institutions, each of them, two Governments, the Government of Spain and the Basque Government. And it addresses each of them in the competitive terms that these governments have. And there are four points which, in my opinion, are fundamentally political, although they are profuse in the initiative and detailed. They're politicians. And I have already argued a few times in this House that the role of a parliament is also a function of political opinion. And a non-law proposal is a good tool for a parliament representing a society to mark a political position. And today, with what is to be adopted, the Basque Parliament, on behalf of the Basque society, of Basque society, will issue a clear political opinion on the Valley of the Fallen and all that surrounds it, on issues of historical memory, on human rights issues and on the issue to which I have referred: on a question of democratic elementary values. You tell us that it is in Congress that these things should be done through a bill, that it is already underway and that your party, with the majority of right-wings at the table of that congress, is constantly blocking. I'm not going to blame you for that, because I know you're not a congressman. But it's your party that's blocking it. And several of the issues included in the initiative have been supported in the European Parliament by Members of the People's Party, in addition to the clarification of the crimes committed by Francoism, which is an outstanding issue in Spain; the clarification of the crimes committed by Francoism and the assumption of responsibilities. That is why the initiative contains one thing which, in my opinion, is very important. It has been said that we are asking for something as simple as exhuming and handing over the remains to family members. We're not just asking for that. The initiative calls for proper judicial protection. That's very important for justice, because we're talking about victims. And I have not spoken either in my intervention that the Valley of the Fallen should be a place of conciliation. It also seems to me to be a very manic expression. We, or I at least, in my previous speech, have, above all, put the accent on what I believe, or believe, or so we understand our coalition and so I understand, which has to be fundamentally a place to explain what happened in this country: a military coup d'état against the legitimate democratic order and the violent imposition of a brutal dictatorship. For us that should, in any case, be the function of the Valley of the Fallen. And also Mr. Barrio says he doesn't like the Valley. I understand your expression, but you know it's not a matter of taste. It is a question, as I said at the beginning, of democratic values. Look, the People's Party is abstaining today. A few weeks ago Mr Alonso was saying in this House, in an intervention that he had a lot of fun and that we liked everyone very much, that he was my friend. I do not ask you to be my friend, but I am going to ask you today to take a step forward in the true defence of democratic values. And I think you should vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u101	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd be worried, Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero, the words Mr. Barrio has made for the hard. But I have to tell you my review isn't just mine. I hear what victims tell me, and I sit in their service, and I spoil it here. And it seems to me again that they are not satisfied with the treatment which the tough ones have given them. And it would be very simple to solve it. Let me read article 9, paragraph 7, of the newly adopted Aragon Historical Memory Act. "The Government of Aragon will provide the necessary support in the exhumation initiatives of the Aragonese victims who were buried clandestinely and illegally without permission, and in many cases without knowledge of their families, in the Columbars of the Valley of the Fallen." It's law. It's law. This has been approved in the Aragonese courts, and if we had a law here in similar terms, we could have avoided this GNP, because precisely the government would already be working to carry this out. I would have to do so on my own initiative, and that is precisely why I have introduced my criticism and which is going to lead me to a abstention. By the way, a very different abstention from that which Mr Barrio proposes, because he asked for legal instruments and requested it here, because there are already others in progress there, and it is true that the Royal Decree speaks of removing Franco from the Valley of the Falles, but it still does not speak of how to carry out the process to bring those there who were carried clandestinely, illegally and forcibly, how we will bring them here. And obviously there is work there, but the work – I say again – is here. And you often invoke legal issues and invoke questions of legal technique, I believe that to hide issues of lack of political will or a marked political will in certain terms. You objected to the existence of a historical memory law in this community, and I have just read you a historical memory law in Aragon that allows you to do precisely what we are debating here today. And I don't know, if we had that debate and if we had that bill, what their attitude would be, or if it might be against the way it was set up earlier, or if it might ask for the Constitutional Court's appeal, as it has done on other occasions. Because, I say again: the question is not the legal debate there or the legal debate here; the question is attitude, and the question is willful, and I am afraid that its attitude is, at least, total permissivity with regard to certain actions of elevation of Francoism; a certain struggle that is being carried out today within the Spanish right to see who is more fascist, and that was crystallized precisely yesterday in a vote in the Senate, in which you did not join the condemnation of Francoism. I am only moved by one thing, and it is the right of all the victims to all the truth and all justice, and the right to complete all memory. And I think it's a good thing for someone to have an exercial position, an ambitious position, and that's exactly what EH Collect has. We are required by victims; we think they deserve it, and therefore we shall continue to work and fight for them. Come on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u103	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u104	Thank you. Let's go again with the dates, because Mr. Barrio has skipped several steps when talking about what has been the positioning around the historical memory or what we do. No, no, I'll tell you right away. Especially of a party that in its life has performed an act in favor of historical memory. Others will have done better or worse, it may be better, but it has done absolutely nothing. One thing: as soon as they came to power, through budgetary rationing, they paralysed all and absolutely all the initiatives that the State, which is competent in the matter of historical memory, could endorse. Moreover, I will tell you that this proposal was raised in 2017. After that, the People's Party, together with Citizens, blocked it until the end at the Congressional Bureau of Deputies. Then the Socialist Party came to power, and was forced to take another series of measures, such as, with regard to the Valley of the Fallen, the most urgent, Franco's exhumation. And it is true that many things have changed since that change was introduced; we have realized that reconciliation is not possible. As soon as we have tried to remove the remains of the dictator, all the ghosts of many who are shielded in the abstention to continue feeding the two Spains, that Spain that have now risen with millions of excursions to the Valley of the Fallen to prevent the dictator from being exhumed, or those newly recovered Masses near the Almudena. That is the reconciliation of the other party that is willing to make with respect to the victims of Francoism. In view of the opinion of the other Spain, still so alive with regard to the Valley of the Fallen, its refusal in the votes and in the ways to which we exhume the dictator there suggests that, in fact, it will not be possible even if there is a reconciliation with regard to that monument. Perhaps, as Preston says, I have not said that it has to disappear, but, perhaps, the only thing we can do is a more educational washing process and in such a way that close by we can make a kind of interpretive center that explains what was done there and to whom it was done, that it was not on equal parts to the same, but on one side to the other. We were talking about the competitions. We are not going to repeat again that everyone has to make the initiatives that they can do according to their competences. Of course, this Parliament can make a law on Basque Historical Memory, as has been mentioned in the case of Aragon, which has that measure, and also in Andalusia and in the case of Baleares, and it will have that of Extremadura. That also appears, but there will be other issues that will have to be dealt with in the Congress of Deputies. I told him, but he won't listen to me. We are submitting a modification; then a paper has been created, and they are working on that right now. Put yourselves there to work on these issues that say you can't work here. And then, when we bring in the possibility of making a Basque Historical Memory Law, get to work with us to take a series of measures, within those that enter the legal order and in accordance with our competence framework, for I am waiting for you to collaborate with all those we want to start walking. Anyway, the movement is shown to be moving. We may have walked very slowly by the Socialist Party, but we did the Historical Memory Act, introduced the Memory Reform Act to the shortcomings and obstacles to be applied, we took steps with the Valley of the Fallen and we will continue to take them to give dignity to the victims that has not been given in more than 43 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Mr. Ramirez-Ecudero is your word. FRAMEUR-ESECDERIO ISUSI I understand that everything that is done has to be legalized, it has to be shaped, but I believe that on this subject, which is, apart from an important subject, a very profound subject within the feeling of the human person, it is not that it is necessary, as Mr Arzuaga said, will, because before having the will you have to feel, you have to have a sense of memory, of dignity, of ethics, of the desire to repair the lies that we have heard in the last 40 years regarding the history of 36. And I think that's what I don't dare say about you, but quite a lot of people in your party aren't what they feel. Without having that sense of need for reparation, without having that feeling that ethical and human dignity must be restored to those defeated in the Civil War and to those we now succeed in the twenty-first century, I believe that, by much will and by many laws, it is very difficult for the way to go. I think if there were an election in the Fallen Valley, I know which party would win by absolute majority. I'm not gonna say the name, but I'm clear. I mean, I don't think you guys have the sense of that historical justice yet. And I think that within their party there is still a broad layer of people who still think that it is the Valley of the Fallen of the winners and that, as they are grandchildren of winners, they see it with a certain taste, and do not see the historical justice to be done, after all the years that have passed. On the subject of Gogora, Mr Arzuaga, I would like to remind you with all the affection of the world that you also belong to the Gogora Board of Directors, so that, if there are any faults, they will have to be distributed directly to the members of the Board of Directors. But no, apart from that, I have to tell you what I told you before: I believe that in this matter we are joined by 100 points 99, and we are separated by one. So I, although I know that you are going to abstain on the first point, but after the vote and thinking again about the talks, believe that the door to Gogora is open and I think it would be a very big decision that, because of such a small difference in this matter, we should no longer offer a unity which, of course, is the one that we have in this matter the four parties that are going to vote on this proposal today affirmatively. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u107	Gracias, president. I don't know. I don't think he wanted to understand what I said. I have said that there is a framework for action where we can move forward and where we can move forward, with democratic and parliamentary majorities, in relation to overcoming the issues that you put in this non-legislative proposal. I say that there is a framework that can be legal through a procedure that has recently been approved to move around. I mean, I don't know if that's questionable or not, but I think it's perfectly consumable in a political position of a political party that understands that political-parliamentary functioning, and that I said later, that, based on those decisions that are taken by majority and that are laws, here then we can act, and I will be the first one to recognize that we have to act and that we have to put and use the methods that we have at our disposal, as Gogora can be or as another. I mean, I don't know. It is that today you have all tried to give me lessons in democracy. You first, Mr. Hernandez. You first, because, referring to our president, you took the opportunity to tell us how we would have to move forward to be more democrats. Then everyone else came. It is known that you have stimulated them. We are very clear about what we do, and the consideration and respect for the law, which we like and do not like, and its value, and democracy, and the democratic approach to the making of laws will make us have to assume what we have to assume. And I think it is a good time to see that approach, and an opportunity, the procedure that exists today in the Congress of Deputies, from my point of view. And it is that, besides, hearing you all, it is desolating to hear you today. It's just that today we don't seem to have made any progress. Looks like we're the same as in '76. Looks like we're the same. It is that their speeches in the rostrum on this issue are terrible. That is to say, Mr Arzuaga is the one who speaks most of the time about Franco in this Parliament. He's the one who's the most. He is a hooligan of the memory of Francoism in this House, because he likes it, because every two by three comes here to remind us of it. I believe that there are other ways of working on these issues, which is not to continue looking for confrontation and often to end that reconciliation that we have all talked about. Because, Mrs Romero, how is reconciliation not possible? It is that Mrs Romero has said that reconciliation is not possible. But how can you say that? It is that it has already been produced in essential terms, that we cannot deny the path that the Spaniards and the Basques have gone through all this time. Isn't it about reconciliation? Wasn't it about reconciliation? Hasn't it been democracy? Hasn't it been ethical in relation to the past? Hasn't it been to condemn the past? Of course I do. The one who's done so much harm to the Spaniards? Of course I do. And there we have been. And it's been a reconciliation. Let us see, Mr Hernández, for us the Law – you once again speak of it – the Amnesty Law of 77, as your former leader Marcelino Camacho reminded us, is one of the cornerstones of reconciliation, democracy, transition and our democratic system. It seems a lie that once again we have to hear such critical reflections again with what has been a key element. I mean, we've made a lot of progress. Indeed, we have to make further progress, and indeed there are problems and there will be issues to be recognized and paths to go through, and today what I have wanted to highlight is that we have a path to go through, which is a legal instrument in the Congress of Deputies, to go through. Of course, there, in the bill that is under way, there is talk of Franco's exhumation; for, well, you can talk about more issues, you can talk about all those issues that you have brought here, regulate them, regulate them, and then that agencies or institutions such as those we support, can do their work in an area also of conformity, of reconciliation, but in the legal field. And I understand that that is the fundamental element. Today we have not come here to talk about our historical memory laws. We have legal frameworks, the Historical Memory Act, which is now trying to be reformed; it is a legal framework in which we can work. And we're going to do it in that key, at least from the People's Party of the Basque Country. And believe me when I told him what I said: I don't like the Valley of the Fallen at all; I wish it had a different meaning very soon, I wish. And in that sense there are instruments and there are elements for that to happen. So play you, but normally, without confrontation, in the political-parliamentary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u108	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. End of discussion, we're going to vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the middle-point that Eucators have signed. Point one, first and the other three. There's no problem voting for points, I think, so we'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 48; the contrary, 0; the whites, 0; the abstainments, 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u109	So the first point is accepted. After that, we'll vote for two, three, four points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-22.u110	So there are two, three, and four middle points. Next, I'll read you two institutions of speech. The international day against women's violence, November 25, the institutional expression. The sight of victims requires a voice to be given to women. "On the international day of destroying violence against women, we wish to confirm our commitment to erect society free from the curse of violence. "In like manner, one of the international legal frames, one must repeat that there is a connection between the neglect and violence of the causes of the genus and the inequality of women, which is understood as a violation of the human rights. "In this context, we want to emphasize the right to reparation for victims of macho violence, a reparation that implies the right to the truth, that the account of the violence experienced, the complaint and the word of women are legitimately heard. "From the Basque Parliament we must assume our social and political responsibility in building a society that guarantees the right to the truth of the victims. "To this end, the Basque Parliament undertakes to contribute to the improvement of services in order to develop a network of support services to ensure comprehensive care for women in their recovery, from the feminist approach of empowerment and individual reparation. "To listen to the women who have survived, to design prevention and security measures, to use the predilections that serve women to survive and protect them; to stand by the women, to create their ration of service and violence in life, to understand that this violence is a mechanism of domination and control, built on the patriarchal system of society, to help collective enterprises, and thus to survive. that they may cultivate the collective relatation of women's violence, and claim broken rights, and assist them in the prosecutions and complaints of the victims, in order to ascertain the testimony and need of the women. "An occasional public confession and observation of the victims of the Machita violence, both individual and collective. Examinations for the recovery of women's resistance memory, homages, women's memory and relatations, young sensibilizations, etc. "Work together, with feministic movements, with experts, with collective organizations of women who survived the machis of violence." The institutional expression about children's rights. "We have seen that thousands of children migrate within their limits and within their bounds, without any one to protect them, especially in the presence of exploitation, in the face of abuse, and in the presence of any of the many kinds of violence. "Children who migrate travel to other places in search of opportunities that they do not find in their own country. At other times, children are forced to move, either because of causes such as poverty, violence or natural disasters, or because they become victims of trafficking or exploitation. "This year 2018 remains particularly tragic for migrants and refugees seeking security in Europe, with more than 2,000 people dead, according to United Nations figures. In addition, more than 640 children have lost their lives since 2014 on the same journey, although the number could be much higher, as many of the disappearances that occur are neither certified nor documented. "From the perspective of migrant boys and girls, they are subject to the rule of law, and must prevail over their status as a child over their status as a migrant. "El Parlamento Vasco comparte el Gobierno Vasco y se comprome with the institutions of the state apoyarcha, in respect of human rights and solidarity, these institutions have a right in the field. "The goal is to appear as a country in which the children who are in process of recination and recination, and under which they depend, as the children who have children, and who are willing to receive their families, to keep up the expeditions and programs which are set up in the course of the day, and to keep up the emigrations and refuxes of children, especially children, who are destined to be careful, to develop new undertakings and programmes, together with the foru and municipal administrations, with the social and civil society, and the pursuits which in the passage preserve and support the dignity of children who are in their primary rights, in the watering context of human rights." We've simply exhausted the list of subjects, and we end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-seven.
