ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u0	Before we start, I have to say that the tenth point is left for another. First point in theme list: "I ask you, Rachel Molina Pérez, the lawmakers of the Parliament for Eplegu and the head physician of the Society, concerning the ill-treatments of men without homes." Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. Artolazabal anderea, the reality of homeless people is very diverse, and from the field of social policies it is difficult to quantify and characterize. Despite the image that is offered from society, they are not a compact group nor have stable characteristics over time. They are probably people who at some point in their lives, under various circumstances, see themselves in that situation. In the last night count of people who spend the night in the streets of the capitals and towns of Euskadi, and which you yourself made public a few months ago, it was noted that in 2016 274 people had been located, compared to 323 in 2014. Despite being a worrying fact, we are facing a remarkable decline. It also indicated that 28% of people in this situation spend most of the day alone and 30% are under the age of 30. We are faced with a problem addressed through inter-institutional collaboration, as they influence, in addition to housing and social services, different factors, such as health. Some homeless people suffer from disorders, mental illnesses or addictions and receive no medical treatment. Municipal collaboration is also essential, as it provides centres for voluntary visits to avoid overnight weather. The work of the volunteer groups accompanying them is also imperative. The conditions faced by the homeless are the clearest example of social exclusion. They face insecurity and sometimes insults, threats or any kind of verbal and physical aggression on the part of others. This victimization is especially pronounced among women, who are at increased risk of some form of sexual assault. Although Euskadi has a powerful public system of income guarantee and social inclusion that provides attention to all people, it is necessary to deepen this problem and seek concrete solutions. Duela gutxi, hedabideen bitartez jakin dugu hainbat personsonak tratu txarrak parratu dituztela kalean lotan zeudenean. Persona ahulenen kontrako indarkeriazko jokabide horiek ez will say onargarriak eta giza eskubideen urraketa argi bat dira. For this reason we would like to ask you: Is the data around this reality? Such a pitiful event cannot happen. Does Euskal strategy without homeless Pertscan receive any initiative to face it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u3	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. According to data from the last nocturnal count in 2016, 61.3% of homeless people reporting nighttime experiences on the street, either today or in the past, report having suffered some kind of aggression, from a simple comment to another kind of situation. First of all, this Government strongly condemns any physical or verbal aggression against this group, which is particularly vulnerable. With regard to the type of crime suffered, insults or threats are the main reason for victimization among the homeless. The 2016 data show that almost three out of ten homeless people would have suffered insults or threats from other people. The theft of money or belongings is the second most common crime against homeless people, followed by beatings and physical assaults. In addition, data for 2016 show that 2.9% of homeless people would have suffered some form of sexual assault and that among women their incidence is much higher than that of men. In a few days' time, all the institutions in Euskadi will sign a pact, a document of accession to the Basque Strategy for Homeless Persons promoted by the Department of Employment and Social Policy, which has already been approved by the Governing Council and the Civil Dialogue Bureau. This will be a positive step in the prevention, care and eradication of such situations in a Basque society that reaches the highest levels of solidarity and well-being. To this end, on the eighth axis of the strategy, aimed at promoting community awareness and involvement in the prevention of these situations of residential exclusion, we have set up six initiatives to address this scourge. First, we will establish cooperation protocols between social services departments, third sector entities and municipal and autonomous security bodies for the implementation of measures to prevent situations of victimization of homeless persons, as well as for the investigation and resolution of cases. Secondly, we will also develop awareness-raising guides on hate crimes against homeless people aimed at citizens in general, as well as social, health, justice and security professionals. In addition, as a third measure, we will develop a system of early warning and data collection in relation to crimes and hate crimes committed against excluded persons, and we will also develop a manual of style and training activities with media professionals to contribute to the elimination of stereotypes in relation to people in situations of serious residential exclusion. Fifthly, we will also promote community self-organisation and neighbourhood organisation networks for the provision of support services to people in a situation of residential exclusion. And finally, we want to develop and are developing guides and protocols or good practice manuals to facilitate neighbourhood acceptance with regard to the establishment of care centres and programmes for the homeless. It is a strategy to reduce homelessness, founded on the view of rights, and more accurately in the view of double rights: he concentrates upon people, and in the house, and is integrated, for he grasps from a number of problems which are in the critical state of the dwelling-places. We'd like to give them a special welcome from the homeless problem of people who have more complex needs to cut down their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Second point on the subject list: "To ask, the members of the legislatures of the World of Maddalen Irina, the President, the public pension system." Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning. The villagers are in the street and they're looking at us. We've been speaking deeply of people's decent lives this week in this parliament, and yesterday we've been talking about how we're doing the decent life of the pensioners in the office of the Basque People, and we put some measures on the table. Not a single measure on the part of the government supported, and on the side of the Papal Party, which, no doubt, seemed to us hopeless. We often look into Spain to examine this problem, and it is natural in the logic of the dependence we live in, in that logic which is so prejudicial to us. It's less logic, in our opinion, that the E.P. Popular Party, the J.I., had been protected by the Preservations, and that protected that advance of 0.25%. In any case, it's urgent to transfer the Social Security. It's urgent to work on a private pension system at Esscal. In the nafarro they asked fully, and, Mr. Urkullu, what I want to ask you, while we get them, while we do that job, whether it's easy to make use of the Euko masquerade to guarantee the pensions of the Armaba, Bizkai, and Gipuzian pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mrs. Iriart, in the light, pensions are not in our hands. Our responsibility is to guarantee the welfare system to all the people, and they are among them the pensioners who are most wanted. Euskadin is a privilege to guarantee life to those who are most needed. These constitute our system of well-being; and the revenues which the revenues of the revenue have the chance of receiving it, as well as the members of the community, the Free, the additional preparations for the housing, the aids for the payment of the bottles, and the assistance of social hardships. It helps to complete the income of those who don't come to grief and have the smallest pensions, by means of rents to ensure their incomes. In fact, one of the four people they get is a pensionist and gets extra money. That's exactly what we use 46 million dollars for. Such measures are accepted simply by Eucharin. Euskadin and nowhere else. We are therefore speaking of the endeavour of all the people of Eucharadicus to defend those who are most in need. In Euskadi, one in four persons receiving income guarantee income is a pensioner and receives a supplement of income. We have allocated EUR 46 million to this objective. And we advocate updating pensions on the basis of the consumer price index. We demand the competence of the management of the economic system of social security provided for in the Statute, and its management from nearness will result in dignified pensions present and future. In the meantime, we reiterate the decision taken by this Parliament calling on the Spanish Government to ensure an adequate and sustainable public pension system, based on the right to decent pensions, within a framework of solidarity and transparency supported by certain sources of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u9	Mr. Urkullu, I know there are no pensions in our hands. It's also that they take revenues to ensure their income. 35% of the pensioners, too. But it would be good if I went out on the street and explained to the pensioners what else he's going to do in this tragic situation that they're going through. All our proposals are possible, indeed, in what manner wealth is produced, there is the key. And there's no good business with PP. There's no good business, because you've accepted these budgets and made a guarantee of the increase of 1,50% increase of the minimum pensions every month. That's what a café's worth. A coffee a month. In Toledo Paktuan, you said, I hope you can check out the KPI for the promotion and the work of the pensions, and you don't ever throw another hand at the Popular Party again. And here the prosecutor of reform agreed with PP won't let him divide his fortune, Mr. Urkullu. And other reforms were possible, and the people of the Basque Country could be made progressively by our demand for us to arrive at $180 euros, and to check our pensions to KPI. It was possible and we have no doubt about it. And amongst the injuries that dependence brings us, there are ways to overcome the form of labour, or to make our own employment policy. And we're looking round and round, when Spain will give us things. Besides, we've only got to ask for that and start our hands, because even our self-portrait is in danger. And if not, look at the shameful spectacle that is giving the Supreme Court of Spain today, which is shameful from every point of view. Anyway, I'll tell you something. In your acquaintance, I should not be surprised that in a few months we should come to this parliament with proposals made here yesterday, or very similar. Because it gives me the impression that you, above all, are interested in putting the medals on, and that if it is someone else who brings the proposals, then you are already backing up. They can't stand it, and if it's Euskal Herria Bildu, then maybe at least. And less so if they are progressive and realistic proposals. We will remain as we have been, either for pensioners or for people who are all pensioners, for reasons of reason and reason, because today they are worthy of pensioners, and are always worthy of this people. Thank you, Mr President, thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u10	Thank you, ma'am. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriarte, two confusions. One, the first, confuses asking the Lehendakari and the Basque Government with what the Basque Nationalist Party is and its scope of negotiation. -Y la sulfur huué más podemos hacer? I'll bet he'll play with real shit and he'll be all right. Pents are essential in the state of well-being, and the subject must be exercised as far as possible in the pursuit of the greatest possible harmony. It is necessary to give stability and stability to the measures taken. And in this dispute, it is necessary to set up solutions for those who are at home, by proposing measures to ensure future pensions. We will, yes, maintain social priority and guarantee the benefits of the Basque system of social protection. Secondly, do not confuse pensioners with what is the competence of pensions in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and with the Basque system of social benefits. We will guarantee income guarantee income, also for retired people whose income does not reach the minimum set in the current legislation, supplementary housing benefit, pharmaceutical copayment and social emergency aid. The Basque Government acts rigorously and ensures that lower pensions continue to be supplemented in accordance with the provisions of Law 18/2008. And, yes, the Basque Government shares the objective of the European Social Charter mentioned so much, but urges the Spanish Government to ensure a sufficient and sustainable public pension system. That is the commitment, too, to urge the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, the members of the Podemos team made to the president about the Euscaly mobilization cycle." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u13	Mr. President. In the last few days, he's being the leading man because of the social mutations that are being given here. Besides, in many cases these mutations have been historical. Las moviliiones que tumos teniendo estos en Euscadi están siendo verdaeramente históricas. Lehendakari jauna, is your government alluded to? What initiatives will you take to respond to the massive demands of Basque citizenship?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, the Basque Government is taking initiatives on a permanent basis to respond to the demands and needs of citizens. And I only quote from initiatives this week that relate to the issues you raise: aid to families and children, Bai Sarea network, to promote equality in business; wage gap table; income guarantee income reform; improvement of the conditions of public workers; civil dialogue table; extension of parental leave to all families, an example of what we are doing this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u17	Mr Lehendakari, today Basque citizenship has discovered two things. One we already knew, the other is a little newer: in addition to being a government very fond of taking pictures appearing to walk the street, they also have the vice of hanging medals for doing nothing. The saddest thing, moreover, is that it is you who put them to themselves, without the slightest blush, moreover. Do you really think that the same pensioners who have demanded your party not to reschedule budgets with Rajoy would put any medals on it? Do you really believe that the women who demanded more resources to fight against the macho violence this March 8th would put some medal to the lehendakari who takes pictures without women or who has cut 1 million euros in the equality budget? Do you really believe that the teacher, the student, the staff employed in Education would put some medal on this government, when they are going out on a strike against their policies dozens of times? Do you really believe that the workers of Tubular Products, who are here today, who are today at the gates of Parliament, or of the Naval, will congratulate you on the abandonment of your government to these companies? You have to have the courage to come here today to hang medals, when there's half a country on the streets, half a country on the streets for all kinds of social problems... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u19	Do you really believe that this is the answer that awaits the Basque citizenship of the lehendakari? Do you think that because your party took two apparent photos on March 8 and the other day in Bilbao with the pensions is this arranged? This goes with you, you, gentlemen of the PNV and PSE, when Basque citizenship goes out on the street. Pensions are also a Basque agenda; strikes in Education are addressed to you; on March 8 women asked you for more budgets. The workers of La Naval and Tube Products are demanding their Government to take action now. For you it is very easy to say, as you have said before, that these demonstrations are against the Rajoy government, or that they have no competence in these matters. Better to go from point to point for his party's support for the State General Budgets; better to obviate that those budgets, which were so good for his party's interests, left the Basque pensioners at the stand. Mr. Urkullu, what are the workers of Tubular or Naval Products asking of your Government? Why do they go out on the street and demand that they be involved in finding solutions to these companies? Isn't this going with you? Do you think Basque citizens are going to buy you that motorcycle that this week's mass demonstrations are not also addressed to your government and your party? Honestly, you've been ruling for too long, you've been in Ajuria Enea for too long, and you've forgotten to hear what's going on on the street. They have forgotten how the vast majority of this country feels. They have been ruling for too long, repeating over and over again the same policies that do not work. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u21	Si, please. They have been there for so long that they have run out of ideas to solve the problems that Euskadi has today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u22	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours. [[Berber]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, the Government, the Basque Government will continue to carry out the word given, with closeness, realism and transparency. And it is true that we have known mobilizations that speak to us clearly of an active and demanding Basque society, and I know well those mobilizations, such as those that have occurred in other cities and communities of the State, Mr Martínez. I can assure you that in Euskadi we listen and listen to these voices. In Euskadi, we will continue to add initiatives to strengthen equality, social protection and care for those who need it most. We've set up the program and we're keeping our promise, Mr Martínnez. We hold our commitment to society. The two-thirds of the past are to appreciate social expenses. We've already accepted five budgets, and each time we've increased social expense. Five years ago it was 6,200 million euros, which will be 6,700 this year. You won't find a Basque social commitment around you, Mr. Martinez. What specific article, for example – as you were reminded yesterday, in the plenary yesterday – of the European Social Charter guarantees EUR 1,080 per month for all pensioners, Mr Martínez? Let us not confuse society. What European country guarantees, for example, a minimum pension of EUR 1,080 for all its pensioners? Which community or council where you govern guarantees the 1,080 euros for pensioners, Mr Martínez? Look, I believe in positive developments, adding commitments day by day, growing tenth to tenth, generating employment, attracting more visitors, increasing exports, achieving new investments and working together, realistically and rigorously. It's not about medals. Demagogy endures everything. You, you, United We can, who have been in public and institutional responsibilities for four years, govern or co-rule municipalities and communities in which there have also been mobilizations. What initiatives have you taken that you can present here as a model? Look, in Euskadi we spend three out of four euros on social spending. These five years we have increased health, education and social protection resources in each budget. We are 5% of the state and 40% of total social expenditure. The cost of protection per person in Euskadi exceeds 8,000 euros, above the European average. We do here what we can say we have to do and it hasn't just started. Give me just one example of income guarantee income, including pension guarantee income, plus supplementary housing benefit, plus co-payment, plus social emergency aid. Are we satisfied? No, but this country leads a social commitment that you, where you govern, have only begun to transit. We'll keep our word. That's our responsibility and our response. We have a pattern, which is called a tolerable human development, and offers good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Basque Socialists of the United States made to the Chief Environmental, Land Planting, and Housing Department, about starting a program for the local population." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u25	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. We were very clear at the beginning of the legislature that one of the main objectives of his department was to promote housing rental policies. Throughout this time we have been able to know that they have strengthened programs, improved communication so that citizens know the value of these programs, improved mechanisms, promoted conventions, strengthened protocols, for example, with other institutions, such as Eudel, such as the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country. We understand that it has been a diverse, broad, pluralist policy, but above all an effective policy, which responds to the commitments that this Government has made to Basque citizenship just over a year and a half ago. We understand that one of the fundamental pillars of his department's policy is also the Housing Act, which is pending development. We know they're working on it. And we are also awaiting the Constitutional Court's ruling on the articles of that law that are suspended and that are undoubtedly a fundamental pillar for the full development of housing rental policies. But I know they're not holding hands. A few days ago we learned that they had signed an agreement with the City Council of Lasarte-Oria, through which the city council transferred the management of 16 municipal housing units. As everyone knows, there are a lot of municipalities that own houses, that manage them; in other cases they are even houses that do not currently have any kind of use. Therefore, we would like to know what are the main objectives of the new programme, promoted by the Bizigune programme itself, also in relation to the housing of the Basque municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u26	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, as you well know and have mentioned, one of the fundamental priorities on which we work in our department is to try to have the maximum housing alternatives sufficient to meet a growing demand for sheltered rental housing. It's what the law tells us and, somehow, what we're trying to answer with the department's performance. We have three alternatives to deal with this demand. On the one hand is the promotion of new rental housing, which we are doing, which we are intensifying since last year, this year and we have, of course, the option of continuing in the coming years to grow in the public park of rental housing. We also have the alternative of brokering empty housing, the Bizigune program. And we also have the alternative of the economic housing benefit, which is a bit what allows us to do when we cannot respond with the provision of rented housing, so help people to pay for housing on the free market. The truth is, the demand we have is very high. We currently have 51,171 people who demand a rental home, and the response capabilities are always limited. Our rental park currently stands at 12,523 floors managed by Alokabide, and we have to grow necessarily. The possibility of growing in the short term stems primarily from the fact that we can expand the mobilization of empty housing based on the Bizigune programme. We want to do it, it's one of the goals we have set in the department. In that regard, we have increased contributions to Bizigune. We are making campaigns for the collection of housing on a permanent basis, to try to get citizens to trust this programme, which offers the maximum guarantees from the point of view of the collection of rent and of repairing the damage to the housing, if there are any at the end of the contract. But what we want is to keep scratching to get more housing, and to keep scratching to get more housing, one of the alternatives that we have and that we have piloted a few days ago is what we have come to call the Municipal Bizigune. That is, in Bizigune until now we were addressing private homeowners. With the Bizigune municipal, this appendix of the Bizigune, we are going to address municipalities that have empty houses so that they can make them available to our society Alokabide for management for social rent. The first 16 are already with the Lasarte convention, but we are going to address all the municipalities of Euskadi so that, to the extent that they have the possibility to make these houses available to Alokabide, they can do so. The effort of housing is a shared effort, it is not only an effort of the Basque Government; it is an effort of the whole of the institutions, and the municipalities, as administration closer to the citizenry, I am convinced that they will have this door open to collaborate loyally with the government so that we can offer their citizens the best alternative of housing based on the maximum possibilities that we have derived from the use of housing. In addition, it is comfortable for the city council, because all the management with the tenants, all the relationship, all the maintenance, all that the management of the housing would do Alokabide. There are many small and medium-sized municipalities that do not have enough staff to allocate to the management of their assets; that, we guarantee, and we also guarantee, like the rest of the owners of the Bizigune program, that they will receive an income and that they will have a guarantee in the maintenance. I am sure that we will be able to increase our housing portfolio for rent with the cooperation of the municipalities of Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u28	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Five point in theme list: "To ask the president, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, "as to the propriety of the view of the future of Europe." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you for the letter, the document which your Government sent to the European Commission on 9 March last, in which you, inter alia, advocate or propose that a directive of clarity, which is clearly contrary to the Treaties, to the founding principles of the Union, finally to the very spirit of European construction, according to which the exercise of secession, the purported exercise of a right of secession of what you call constitutional regions, should find legal accommodation in the Union and then also ensure that the new entities thus created – in this way – within the states that make up the Union could be holders of all the rights of a new State within the Union. This is what you propose. This directive does not exist, this directive has no possibility of existing, it does not fit the will of European construction. I ask you, first of all, why did you do it like you did? I mean, he did it without entrusting himself to anyone. Note that even in the Congress of Deputies, in the Courts, in the Senate, before going to a European Council there is a meeting to see what the groups think. When the Council has been held, the President of the Government himself has to realise what has been said in the Council, that is, we are seeking a willingness to agree on our position with the European Union. You have not done it, you have approved it without entrusting yourself to anyone, without a previous debate, without knowing our opinion, and you do it on behalf of Euskadi, because you are the lehendakari and you do it on behalf of the Government. He has also done so by dividing his Government, which is a cross-cutting government and therefore without agreement with its partners, and I would like to know why he does so. I understand that the only conclusion that can be drawn from that document in its political vision is that, in the absence of that directive, following a sovereignistic path is absurd, it makes no sense. And that the only guarantee that the sovereignist path that the group to which you belong has raised in the presentation of self-government in the Basque Country would be to have the coverage of that directive of clarity that you invoke, which does not exist. And, therefore, the only logical conclusion of this path that you have undertaken is not known why it is that as long as there is no such clarity directive you are going to renounce any kind of adventure, to propitiate any kind of sovereignistic path, to move forward with what you have put forward in the self-government paper. That pleases me and I would like to know then what you intend with this vision that you have of Europe so contrary to what Europe is, and what are the next steps that you will take after you have forwarded this document to Jean-Claude Juncker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, this document is our contribution to the debate opened by the President of the Commission, Jean Claude Juncker, with the White Paper on the Future of Europe. I would like to make it clear that the Presidents of the Council of Europe and the Committee of the Regions also invited the Basque Government to reflect on and bring forward ideas for the Union to regain citizenship. The next step – which is what you ask me – is to refer this document to the European institutions and to our partners in various Community initiatives, particularly the regions with legislative powers, and also to the task force. And the document, beyond the reductionism to which you come, is complete and is presented in six chapters: Social Europe; Competitive; Economic-Money; Open and Solidarity Europe; Sustainable; and Political Europe. You've only been interested in part six. It is true that our political vision is a federal European Union that recognizes its own diversity and plurality closer, more open to participation, built from below, integrating the regions, peoples and nations that make up the reality of Europe, integrating more, adding, not expelling anyone. We have proposed a more active role for constitutional regions with legislative powers and those representing national realities without a state, a more decentralised Europe, as set out in the Treaty of Lisbon. These ideas are part of the vision of Euskadi and the future of Europe. A document that I recommend to analyze in its entirety. It is public and at your disposal in Irekia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u33	I've got the document. We've read it carefully. The interesting thing is that page, the one I mentioned to you. Everything else may be fine, but the directive is the interesting thing. Everything else is already an exercise of the very good will that you always have, but where you decide to be Adenauer but the reverse is in the clarity directive. I regret that you did not want this to be discussed here before setting out the position of your Government. And I warn you that this also divides your Government, it also divides the House and, therefore, it is not an expression of the vision from the Basque plurality, and it gives a wrong image of what is Euskadi, because Euskadi today is moderation, stability, transversal agreements. That's what it is: opportunities to face problems like those that bring here today workers who are worried about their future. To the extent that you have moderate, stable opposition and do not get into trouble, this can be focused and done. Look carefully, because this directive is written in Catalan, the one you want. Look at that. And look what happened yesterday. And in what, if anyone walks with strange partners, as if you were with those who are sitting here in front of you, with the people of Bildu, it could happen to him. Look what happened to Turull. Look at what's going on there and tell Juncker that in Euskadi we're different and we're for stability, for building and not dividing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u34	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, don't worry. The document is written in Basque, Spanish, French and English. Look, you highlighted in your speech the request that the European Union not expel the regions that accede to independence. The document raises this in that it seems to you to be the only important thing – everything you have referred to the workers here – and what is at stake in what is economic Europe, solidarity, etc., you have said that it is not so important. Well, the document puts it in the opposite direction to which you intend to give it, and we do it in a constructive and positive way. We propose that a simplified procedure be established to ensure that a new state remains in the Union as a result of a possible secession process carried out in accordance with the channels provided for in a directive of clarity, provided that the new state expresses its willingness to belong to the European Union. We put forward a proposal for inclusion, not exclusion. I imagine that you share this proposal, which was applied, for example, to Scotland, if it took that decision in a democratic and clear manner in a legal and agreed referendum. Democracy, clarity, legality and pact. Where's the problem? We propose the Federal and Democratic Union of Europe, and with several undertakings. We are in favour of a federal, efficient, and democratic European Union which agrees with the will of the citizen. This is our proposal to continue the construction of future Europe. To recover the active task in the process of constructing the people, regions, and constitutional nations within the members of the community, to acknowledge the status of the region united by the constitutional regions, and to strengthen the role of the national reality without a State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, the Congressman of the Basque Barrooja Popula team, "About the docal analysis of "Euskongy's fancy company internationaling." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u37	Egun on. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, advisers, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We have now talked about a document that the Basque Government is directing to Europe, but now we are going to talk about a document that Basque society is directing to the Basque Government. On 14 March, representatives of the Euskadi NGO Coordinator appeared in the Committee on European Affairs and External Action and presented a document, the truth, very critical with the policy of business internationalization, entitled "Analysis of the policy of business internationalization of the Basque Government". A policy which has also been presented by your Government in this Parliament. In other words, there were such questions in the conclusions: "The policy of corporate internationalisation promoted by the Basque Government follows a competitiveness and profitability approach, outside the approach of coherence with development policies". That's what I was saying. "The policy of internationalization of the Basque Government is inconsistent with the framework of policy reference for development in the Basque Country. "The policy of internationalization of the Basque Government does not come to the minimum in any of the 18 criteria prioritized to assess the degree of policy coherence with which the Business Internationalization Plan is based." None of the 18. "The plan does not take into account the sustainable human development approach." Mr Lehendakari, what do you have to tell us in the face of this analysis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u38	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u39	Yes, Mr. Barrio, it's up to me. Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Well, as far as you were referring to the report, it's true that this report has been made by a coordinater, and, in a way, we've learned it, and not only knowing it, he's talked to several of the people who'd been making that report. That is, we have been informed, but not only informed, but various members of the Government have been interviewed to prepare this document. And it was also presented to us before its publication, November 2017, and I have to tell you that it is a document whose contribution is interesting for the debate on the preparation of the corporate internationalization document. There are also some elements with which we fully agree, many points of confluence, and these proposals have also been dealt with at the meeting on 15 November 2017 at the Basque Council for Development Cooperation. Then not only do we know him, but we have discussed him and analyzed him. In addition, that document highlights the Euskadi Policy Coherence Framework. It is expressly emphasized that it was approved in April 2016 at the Governing Council. And it is true that there are many discrepancies and expressions such as those that you quote, but it should also be noted that the analysis refers to the policies of corporate internationalization of the period 2014-2016, and, therefore, at this time have been modified with the new plan, taking into account some of the aspects that appear in that document and that I will then detail further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u41	Gracias, president. I am sorry that Mrs Tapia has answered me, not because she is not going to answer what the Government thinks, but because she was asking a question, and when I ask the questions I am asking the advisers who have to do with the matter, that is, the Internationalisation Plan is outside action by the Basque Government, Mrs Elorza, who presented it to us in the Committee on External Action, right? Your ladies and gentlemen are witnesses and were on the committee, and Mrs Elorza presented it to us; and Development Cooperation, Mr Jonan Fernández's case. The two, Mrs. Elorza and Mr. Fernández, the competition of Councillor Urkullu... the lehendakari Urkullu, right? Department of Lehendakaritza. Then, I ask the questions, of course, addressed to the one who has to answer them. And I thank you for the answer, Mrs Tapia, because I know it is true that you will have to work, because after the critical analysis of the Euskadi Coordinator of Non-Governmental Organizations it is clear that the stick is very fat. I have already read the questions and the recommendations there are, that is, to reformulate the policy of internationalization of the Basque Government. That is what the Euskadi NGOs say, and we know of their competence and know of their capacity, that is, we have driven them, we have developed them, we have boosted them through the Budgets too, because they do essential work and critical work essential. And, then, there are a number of recommendations regarding policy coherence, creating a business centre..., and that can be answered: are they going to create a business and human rights centre, as the NGO recommendations say? Are they going to expand the framework of actors involved in the policy of corporate internationalisation? Are they going to make more mandatory requirements in relation to what they pose? Are they going to reformulate the policy of internationalisation of the Basque Government? That is to say, there are a number of important questions that will have to be answered, but Mr Urkullu had to answer them, because he is responsible for development cooperation and external action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u42	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u43	Mr. Barrio. Similarly, you yourself have to reread the question, because it refers to the Business Internationalization Plan, which is the direct competence of this adviser who is speaking. Mrs Elorza presented to you, probably, the Basque Country 2020 strategy, in which the NGO side is in, the business side, summarizing everything. But the business internationalization strategy to which that document refers is one that is directly dependent on the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure. I insist, the document refers to policies and programmes from 2013 to 2016. At the moment, politics has been reformulated; it is not that we have to reformulate it, it has already been reformulated. There is a new Business Internationalization Plan and associated with it there are new programmes, some renewed programmes, all considering some of the aspects that are reflected in these conclusions. Our intention is, therefore, to collect these contributions and introduce them into the programmes that we are going to put into operation throughout this whole strategy – and I stress again – of corporate internationalisation, in which we have not gone into depth what our companies are doing when they are located in other countries, which is also an interesting element to consider, that is, how they employ their workers, how implementations are carried out, but which refers to our policies, to the establishment of programmes. And there – I want to insist – there is a new 2017-2020 plan, there is a plan with new programmes and with some of the existing programmes already renewed. You will analyse it in depth, because it has also been referred to this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Eukene Aranas Varas, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, the president, the demand and proposals of the Basque Women, not to answer for the Euskalians." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u45	Good morning, everyone. This March 8, thousands and thousands of women throughout the Euskadi sided with the convening of the feminist movement and mobilized on a historic day. They expressed the tiredness of the situation of inequality of women and men and the structural violence they suffer from the mere fact of being women. Mr Lehendakari, we would like to know what the Basque Government is doing to respond to the demands and proposals once again demanded by Basque women going out massively on the street on 8 March.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, on March 8 the women and the feminist movement were, yes, the real protagonists, and I highlight that protagonistism on a historic day in favor of equality. Euskadi is a pioneer and reference in equality. You ask what the government is doing. To accompany a pioneering community by developing new initiatives. I will quote some of the initiatives we are doing: Working table with economic and social actors to analyse and resolve the wage gap; complement the current legislation to articulate the autonomous response to violence against women; promote the co-responsibility of men in care through parental leave in the Administration; propose to extend this benefit to all families; increase training and the number of staff specialized in equality in the Basque Government; include the gender perspective in the advanced management model; assist companies in implementing equality plans; collaborate with international agencies such as UN Women to set standards for the care of women victims of violence; or work with advertising agencies and media for non-sexist advertising; new awareness-raising programmes for men, Gizonduz; or, for example, the Master Plan for Co-education and Prevention of Gender Violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u49	Thank you, President. We thank him for listing all his Government's proposals with the intention of moving towards equality, but they do not go to the root. In the opinion of this parliamentary group, we believe that the Basque Government and the institutions are not responding to the height of the historical moment, to the height of the new time we are witnessing. You know what? Basque citizenship, Basque women, are making qualitative leaps; they advance and overflow traditional forms. They have broken in force, and not only on 8 March, they have done so on several occasions in recent months. They have broken through with a new feminist agenda for equality and the eradication of sexist violence; a new agenda for these times, for our socio-economic reality, for this globalized world; a new agenda for this present and with a look into the future; an agenda that leaves without arguments those who think that everything is already done and that equality is a fact and sexism a thing of the past. The feminist movement and the struggle of women have succeeded in permeating the media agenda, placing debates, concepts and problems until recently little invisible or unknown. He has managed to bring together very diverse, plural women of all ages, to say "Enough!" to resource-deficient policies, "Enough!" to precarious jobs, "Enough!" to the Machist violence, and "Enough!" blind and deaf institutions. And his Government, on the other hand, was not alluded to, did not change the pace, did not change its equality policies and insisted and repeated the same thing. It works with the autopilot, insists with a formula that is becoming obsolete and insufficient, a formula of another time, the schinite. Mr Urkullu, your government is not up to it, I repeat. It was seen on the street this March 8th. His actions, his policies, were questioned on the street. On 8 March, we heard that the Basque Government's budget for equality, prevention and anti-machist violence was clearly insufficient. 0.11% of the total budget, this is what your government is devoting to equality and combating sexist violence, this is your government's real commitment to Basque women, 0.11%. The schinita. Say whatever you want, you can't explain why your government in 2018 allocated less budget to equality than the previous year. The fight for equality for you, Mr Urkullu, for your Government, is not a priority, it only occupies the echinite, the same echinite that women occupy in their photos. He had the opportunity to correct this error in the Budgets. We discussed it last October in this very Parliament at the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos, but his party refused to allocate more resources to equality and to fight against macho violence. This is a reality. Look, your government says it wants to transform the educational model through co-education. With 100,000 euros? With this money, some project can be carried out, but nothing is transformed. But then we see that you give 12 million euros to Opus Dei schools, which segregate the student by sex. We must have courage, Mr Urkullu. But do you know why this is happening? Because they don't listen to the street, they don't listen to women. His Government was not truly committed to equality. They have been ruling for so long that they have forgotten to listen to citizens and have no answers to their demands. [[He showed a picture.]] Look at you, Mr Urkullu, you are alone, with no one behind you; you lack citizenship, closeness. The picture is worth you, but not the hundreds of thousands of Basque women we want commitment, who we want worthy Budgets. Simply, they've been ruling for too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u50	Thank you, Ms. Arana. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours. [[Berber]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, I would ask you to leave your photos and, if you want to continue with the photos, look at the picture of the Basque Government and look at the picture of your parliamentary group, Mrs Arana. Look, we share that we are facing a situation of structural inequality to be corrected. This is a country goal and we contribute from our responsibility – despite the fact that the whole relationship of initiatives that I have mentioned to you before is of no use to you – to advancing real and effective equality between women and men. "Queen d'évédé palando quiera, señor Bollain nurse..." March 8's mobilization was a terrible push, and it put us in front of the mirror of commitment. He insists on continuing his work with more courage. Today, in Euskadi in Europe, the fifth place is the Index of Equality, and the progress of our program in equality is a national goal. I am aware of the high level of citizenship demand in order to achieve real and effective equality in our country; indeed, the recent mobilizations, not only in Euskadi, but also calling our consciences put us before the mirror of commitment, a commitment that is real and growing in Euskadi – and I do not say so myself – in relation to the commitment of Euskadi and, therefore, of the Basque Government, of this government, which has been in existence for a year. I don't know if you've had the opportunity to contrast with your teammate, Cristina Macazaga, the working meetings you held last week in New York with UN Women organizations and the United Nations Population Fund. If you listen to her, Mrs Arana, who does not listen to me, but if you listen to her partner, you will see that Euskadi has an international consideration on equal terms. The initiatives taken here are acknowledged, and it is well known that Euskadi is among the first European countries in the Equality Index. It's not enough, but it's fair to admit it, Mrs. Arana, and don't call it shame what I'm saying and check it out with your partner. And since it is also necessary to continue to weave alliances, this is Auzolan We are informed that we have people who are conscious of equality, Mrs. Arana. They're asking us to keep moving. Equality is the end of all men, and we defend it with all our will and commitment, by following the example of the most advanced nations in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "The Internation, Joseph Ramone Becerlo Carolo, members of the Podemos team to the head of economics and the sub-gulden department of Eska'Y's work in question for the demands of Angiozar Balazar. " Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chairmans, congressmen, all good days and welcome people from Angiozar Bailara. Mrs. Tapia, the inhabitants of Baila in Angiozar have been here for years... The decades, I'd say, offer jobs and demand to stop the damages caused by a high-speed train in the valley. They have been engaged almost 15 years ago, and were the first in the course of the environmental procedure in '96, and have been last in the process of public intervention last year. These premises are the obvious damages the train will produce at high speed; for example, the load of their landscape, the appalling noise, the danger of covering the springs of water or the brooks, the destruction of the old mills, in order to cut down or change the roads between the neighbours, and leave the land from the tunnels of escombera. After all, the most remarkable damages, which have exposed them once and for all to their lives and their peace. But not only the demands, but the demands have been extended with great illusions, and have formed a special plan of action for them to be collected. The inhabitants of Baila don't want to look back, they're looking for the future of the valley, and their main goal is to take advantage of the high-speed train's work to repair and fill up the absence of the valleys today. And the demands they've submitted were not so particular: To improve the television signal, to improve the moving road, to repair and repair the road from the tunnels, to make use of the way to the service the high-speed railway works will be used, and to perform general services (the library, the youth, the doctor's study, the sports center). Simple demands, humble requests, reasonable and logical requests, and, after all, just petitions. It's called the por el interes general when projecting gigantic infrastructure like the high-speed train And what the valley has asked for is an answer to these demands, it's not so difficult and it's not expensive. The solutions are available: by signing a contract between institutions, for example, or using a cultural investment %1 to finance those contracts. But that's what I'm asking you to do today. A problem has been verified that a high-speed train will cause damage. The solutions are defined, the neighbors have defined them all. You have the right terms for running solutions: on the one hand, that the valleys are ready to speak and ready to make an agreement, and that there are legal tools, but they have to be engaged and they need commitment for the sake of the Euskalion. Are you willing to help us to the Angiozar Baara, Mrs. Tapia? Are you willing to protect Angiozar Valley requests in front of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u54	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u55	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Becerra, you'll know that in the part that was already in the fun, that is, when it's a part of us, in the Gipuese part, and at Berga-Berga, for example, the delegation of ETS had been closely engaged to work with that group because we could run things as well as we could, and so we did. So, since this example was suitable for us, we thought it right to take it to all other tragedies. So in this case, we're talking about a different kind of thing, and in this case, I'm sure, there's no way for you to get started, but Adif, and, well, we've had a lot of trips and, as you know, the works are about to start again. In this sense, about to end December, this report had been sent to us in some way the year before, and this party wanted to make some sort of a statement of our department to get to Adif, and of course, as we thus worked, we thought it right. There are more than one measure, as you mention, and they are all examining the town to go down to the detail and see what are more likely to be done, and how they can be set up again, and so on. We just wanted to know what all these precautions were like, and that was why we thought of joining the council and with the inhabitants of Angiozar, that we had to make a meeting from ETS, MUKING, in order to get everybody started and to treat that request directly with the Adiafs, and how, so to speak, it was possible to get ahead of us. A meeting was proposed in February, but the weather was delayed, and, well, I think it can't be denied, the Yonkers Department of Berga has continued to work and we've somehow reorganized the meeting that we have to do. Instead of us, we're in Euskaddin, I'm just saying, "What's done is done by Christmas and the country, and then by taking it to Adif, we've set up something else. to work with the municipals and inhabitants in this report, to work on the measures, and to go together at this moment to plan with the Adiafs, how we want to do it, and so on. And right now we're in touch with Adiaf and we're planning to have a meeting in the April in Bilbon, the ETS residence. So at this point our goal is not to be an intermediary, but to be able to introduce them and the councils themselves directly to Adif, and to make Berga-Bémoo-Morama, to have the same treatment, and to work in the same manner with those inhabitants; and, as you say, to see how several and such undertakings can be carried out, perhaps with that cultured one, but perhaps far more simple measures, and may be cultivated without the use of that money. The goal, after all, is to have a direct relation to the inhabitants of Adiaf... , not only with the Adiaf, but also with them, as it were, to work with them in the company itself, i.e., to work with them, i.e., the same example which ETS has used, as the mayor proposed to us by the council, and that is the situation we are in at this moment. So we're gonna have to make our whole commitment as best we can from the point of view of fun. We know that this kind of infrastructure is too much of a kind to bring and bring goods in general, but that there are people who will be especially injured, and that in this case the townships must have a place to reply to their demands, and in the first place to hear them. That's our will, and that's how we'll do it from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u57	Well, first of all I thank you for the explanation and I also thank you for the intention of meeting with the inhabitants of the valley, of the neighboring junta, because, obviously, that is the first step. Now, it gives me the feeling that... well, I've understood that, obviously, what you're looking for is a direct relationship between the city council and the ministry, and I don't know if that would lead to a loss of government involvement. I wouldn't want it to be that way. I wouldn't like it to be because the Angiozar Neighborhood Council has been in town hall several times, they haven't had satisfactory answers, they're abandoned by the town hall. They had meetings in Madrid, they were themselves. Angiozar's neighboring board went to Adif in 2012, went to the Ministry of Development in 2014, and were themselves and they, with the Secretariat of State, about 1% cultural. They were in 2015 with the Department of Transport and have also had contacts with their department later, and in none of these talks have had a satisfactory response, in none of them, because, obviously, who listens to a neighboring board in a ministry in such a large country, or who listens to a city council like Bergara in Madrid; so possibly no one. That is why I do believe that the Basque Government must have some more commitment than the fact of brokering so that the city council can relate to the ministry. Here, what we have is a problem of 300 Basques and Basques that must be defended in Madrid, and we must defend it as it would defend the problem of Bilbao, Vitoria or Donostia, exactly the same. They're less people, but they have some very big problems. And they've got some problems. very large that come from the consideration in which they have been taken on by the institutions. Do you know what you say about Angiozar the partial territorial plan? He says it's a vacuum of opportunity. A void of opportunity. 300 inhabitants of a valley are a void. Since it's a vacuum and it's also an opportunity, they've put in two dumps, two high-voltage lines, a pipeline, a highway and now a high-speed train. It's a vacuum of opportunity and we've filled it with everything we don't want in the city. That's why I told him that the high-speed train goes from one city to another, and through the middle passes through places where people live, where people want to develop vital projects. They know that they live in the rural world and that they will have less comforts, but they do not think that they will take the discomforts of the city, which is what has happened to them. So we can't let these people go to the ministry and say, "That's it, we've already put the city council in touch with the ministry!". We can't do that. There are, as I say, 300 Basques and Basques, 300 Gipuzcoans and Gipuzcoans who deserve the support of the Government. And I know that you have defended other projects and have advocated the signing of agreements to solve urban problems, for example, access to capital in relation to the high-speed train. And here, what we have to look for is the way neighborhood requests are answered, not just those that have to do with the high-speed train. If you are paying all the environmental and social liabilities of our society, in some way, our society will have to respond to those just demands. See to what extent the attitude of the people of this valley is dialogic, who have even offered to be Angiozar the emblematic place of the "And Basque", that I, personally, you know that I am very critical with the "And Basque". And now is not the time to talk about that issue, but it is that they have even sought out special tunnels that they have put in Korea to reduce the noise of the high-speed train. They've even done to them some of the technical work that they should be doing STDs, that they should be doing Adif. What I want to tell you is that you have the unique opportunity to support a Basque valley, the inhabitants of a Basque valley, that above, all you want is simply to solve problems as simple as that you don't see television well or that you don't have a telephone signal, like having a medical consultation, having a library, having a youth center, having a small sports club, you're not asking for more. They're not asking for more. And I don't think there would be any more of that involvement on the part of the government, because somehow, as I say to you, this valley is getting all the impact that Basque society, which no one wants in our back door, and yet we have taken it away from them, and it is time to give some appropriate answers to their requests. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u58	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u59	Mr. Becerra, either I've explained myself very badly in Basque or I've got a little thick today. What I have come to say to you is that the way in which we have carried out work in the section that was our competence, that was Bergara-Bergara, through neighbours, city hall and ETS, we want to do it exactly the same in the section that is not the competence of the Government, that is not entrusted to the Basque Government, it is not ordering ETS, then it does not have the capacity to make such technical contributions – you know it well – and yet we could do it in two ways: one was to do it as a town hall, neighbors, ETS, to collect everything and negotiate it with Adif; or to make a table where Adif is also present and we can all be able to establish what needs are, under what conditions we can pose them, how they can be carried out and work them. But that doesn't mean that because that table and that call was held in ETS in Bilbao, we put the office and left the meeting. Nothing to do with that, quite the opposite. What we thought was that, in the face of the initial approach we had made, this could be more convenient because it is also much shorter, that is, we do not make a first meeting and then we move what we have agreed, but we try directly to agree on it at that table. That is the objective we have set ourselves, to do exactly the same as before and to ensure that this channel is established, so that this first meeting that can be held in April is a path that we have to go through throughout the work. Because it's not going to end with us agreeing on a series of performances, because throughout the whole work there's going to be more trouble, because there's probably going to be opportunities to do things differently, as there has been in the previous section. That's the way we want to work. We don't want to leave there. We want to be there. But above all, let the dialogue, which is already being detailed between the city council and the neighbours, be able to move it higher; that is the way to work. And we do not forget other things that you have raised, other things that appear in the PTP, that all that valley is rural area, where we have the opportunity to work through the Rural Development Plan, that somehow we have to do it from the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure, and that we can work it from both points of view: from the point of view of the infrastructure that Adif has to develop, but also from the Rural Development Plan, that working with the city council we can contribute additional things. Therefore, it is a path that we have to go through, which we have always believed we have to do and in which our commitment is firm in order to continue to do so throughout the work and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the lawmakers of the Casanova Alonso of the EH Collectations, made to the head of Economics, and Subventures, concerning the state of Productos Tubulus SAU company." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u61	Hello. Good morning, everyone. And why, first of all, a warm goodbye to Productos Tubulus, who are here and outside, because you're developing a really exemplary fight. Thanks, really, because you're working for us all, not just for your jobs, but for the whole area and the Basque Country industry. On the 28th of February, Productus Tubulares announced to the workers that he would reduce several restrictions: on the one hand he announced collective releases, on the other a fundamental change of the conditions of labour; and thirdly, that the collective compact would be suspended. Before this, and after March 8, the workers began an unlimited strike. Four hundred workers in this company work in a direct way and almost 200 more in assistants. This company is important because of its dimensions and the paper that plays in the region, and in front of it we ask the government what it's doing to maintain the job and the quality of the job in Productos Tubulus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u62	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u63	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, we do more than once in this tribe about industry and this company of ours is important as they are all others. Everybody's important to us, and everybody's important to us, and fun, as usual, is helping. But one thing must be mentioned, and I think it's important and the workers know it: in this case we are in a general state, in a globalized world, and, as we know, steel has had different themes and different problems during these years. Besides, there are in this case pipes, special pipes, oil and gas. What happened? Well, there's too much production in the world and there's a lot of bread and gas. And the company is planning things in so much June. In June a plan of attraction is to continue this company, not only Productos Tubulares, but Tubos Reunidos. These measures are many, and in the meantime the improvement, and, in some measure, that this company may be effective and continue in this globalized world. It is true that it was announced on March 8, but really we don't know what has been announced, because at first, of course, all these measures are mentioned to the workers, but we haven't any documents yet, and even the workers, I don't think, because in the meantime the United States have appeared to us with their hypothetical measurements. So what I think, and what I'm thinking, and that's what's going to help you, considering that procedure, what measures we have to work on, what measures we need to help, to keep this company working as usual, to save most jobs and not just now, but to bring it back to the future, to the left and to the whole Euskitadi, to be a real contribution. And that's why we have to consider what's going on. We must be all responsible, and in this case we shall be helping, as we have always done, but when we really know what these measures are, because we do not yet know them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u65	No, Mrs Tapia, you do not have the conditions that the company poses and no one has them because they gave workers exactly the same day they were quoted to convey those conditions. They have now dropped Trump's excuse yesterday, because at the moment it seems that there is no tariff for Europe, but we will see what they are doing to us, because, really, this, what shows is the way they act and the practice they have in this company. He said – or said a few years ago – Mr.José Luis Bilbao that he had to be careful to milk the cow too much, that he could stop giving milk. I wish the story had been applied to the managers and owners of this company, because it is true that this is a cyclical sector, in which there are peaks of demand and valleys of demand, and right now we are at a bad time. And, indeed, that is reflected in the profit and loss accounts and is also reflected in the debt that this company carries. But if we see the accumulation of the last 20 years, that shows us that this company is a profitable company in the long cycle, and for that it is necessary to have strategic vision and patience, and the first of change do not want to place on the shoulders of the workers all responsibility, because they are the only ones who have no fault in the situation of the company. And, if these managers and owners, so far those profits of them have distributed in the form of dividends and have not left capitalization in the company, what to say from the arrival in February 2017 of the "shark" Guillermo Ulacia – "Ulacia, with you came the misfortune" the workers sing to us, and they have brought this cry to the door of Parliament – which is trying to apply the abecé of the neoliberal shark, we do not know if to squeeze the nuts to the maximum or to gradually dismantle the company. We said that one of the characteristics of this company and this sector is that it is cyclical, that it has better moments and worse moments, and that it is necessary to have strategic vision and patience. Another characteristic is that it is a niche company, which works by supplying a very specific product and under very specific conditions, and that, in order for it to be able to continue to do so, the steel-lamination binomial must continue to exist, in order to be able to lend the product to the applicants, to the buyers; a quality product, a product on demand, a product at appropriate times and with appropriate approvals. And for that it is necessary to maintain employment and the current productive structure. To you, your government, as usual, we can never demand success, and you know that we never demand success, but we require that you give the whole commitment to 10 percent of what you've done, to guarantee the future of Productos Tubulus, and also the rights of workers and maintenance of the job. Because we said before: Again the left-hander and again, in a sector, you could see. And we think that what you haven't done before, because we've already reached this crisis, you've come from now on to support workers and the whole community to guarantee the future of this business. "Not even a layoff in PT." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u66	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, we often agree, and sometimes we don't, but in this case I quite agree with you in a couple of things. In this case the client and master have much to say, but they often have, and even a future vision, a plan, which will certainly succeed the future, is indispensable. It's absolutely necessary because, after all, fun can help me make it up, but the future plan must be the same. Baita ére, aipatzen zenuez, atzo aratsaldean genuine jakin Trumpek pie bat, beasts hilabete bat eman diola Europari. Therefore, an opportunity scenario is open to us where it seems that there will be an agreement. Then, the impact on the situation of the set of Reunited Tubes may be smaller than we expected last week. It is indeed time to have a strategic vision, to have a long-term vision, to establish a viability plan and to take action. And I am also aware that workers throughout this year have made a very great effort to implement measures of efficiency, greater productivity and improvement of the situation and, moreover, have achieved this throughout this year. That wasn't enough? It is possible, but we need to continue on that path, and on that path the involvement of the Government will be total and absolute, always accompanying, without forgetting that the greater responsibility is where it is (ownership and management), and from there, to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group, Borja Sémper Pacal, made to the head of the Board of Education, about the efficacy and efficacy of the Esquila educational System." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u69	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor. According to a recently developed and published study, a study developed by the Chair of Educational Policies of Camilo José Cela University, the Basque Country, our Autonomous Community, is one of the worst stops in the classification of educational efficiency and effectiveness. The core of this study – for those who have not had an opportunity to know it – says that there are about a dozen autonomous communities that invest in education more than the average, but this study denounces considerable differences, too, among the 17 autonomous communities analyzed in efficiency, efficiency and educational equity. In other words, what comes to say is that the money invested does not yield so much to those who invest the most. This work developed by the Chair – as I tell you – of Educational Policies of Camilo José Cela University in Madrid also establishes several classifications according to this efficiency analyzed: on the one hand, in one extreme it distinguishes regions, autonomous communities that spend little and that make it regular, and on the other it places those that achieve effective results despite a modest level of investment. These two groups, he describes them as high-efficiency groups. There is a third group that achieves low results at a higher than average cost, which points, according to the work – I read literally – "to problems of quality of the governance of the education system". This is obviously the group that is the worst standing in the ranking, and it is made up of Murcia, Extremadura and the Basque Country. This is the origin of the question I ask you today, Counsellor. What comes to the conclusion of the study is that this result of this low efficiency, which equates us to Extremadura and Murcia, is an issue that greatly influences the level of policy quality and its degree of efficiency, "... to give form", the report also says, "... to that well-known desiretum He said: "According to the analyses carried out, it can be concluded that the Basque Country should focus on general educational policies aimed at raising the level of performance of all pupils". And, in this regard, we should focus on aspects such as curriculum, centre management, continuing teacher training, incentive system, complementary academic management, among others. The clear question, Counselor, is: do you think you are alluded to?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u70	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. I'm happy. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u71	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, good morning. Mr. Sémper, as described in the report of justification, is examined only from the analysis of the efficiency of the school-recorruption, the expense of public education, and the application of equity, from the examinations of the PlISA in 2015. The study you have mentioned, like many others, ends by considering the results of the PlISA in 2015 according to many variables. Thus the information which each of these gives us enables us to take measures for improvement. But we can also mention the investigation of the Ramone Areces Foundation. This is a report of education, and in this case it is in the third place between the most effective communities in the state. It's a good thing you're going to be a stable in the management and improvements of education on your side. We have often said that we know the results and must improve them; The principal aim of our whole establishment in the example of the euscal for social protection is, indeed, the improvement, efficiency, and efficiency of our education system; but, indeed, these concepts are comprehended in a series of variable analysis.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u73	Yes, counselor, understand what I'm going to say to you: the good thing about the questions is that a counselor can escape the need to respond in a direct way with common spaces, with desideratums and with more or less global reflections. But we are talking about something that is extraordinarily serious and that is also their responsibility, which is the management of the Basque education system. From a time to this part many indicators point out that something does not work properly, that reforms are needed, that it is necessary to change to improve. And when the counselor of the branch they are continually announcing that she has to change, that she has to do something, that she has to have some kind of political impulse and that she has to seek complicity in this House too – why not – as well as in social actors – which, by the way, are manifested to her once every two by three – something happens. And then subterfuges are no longer worth it. Plant solutions in this House. Share solutions with groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u74	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u75	Mr Semper, we share the need to advance the quality of the Basque education system by promoting equity, social cohesion, education in values from an integral vision of education, that is, we are committed to an inclusive, equitable and innovative school of quality that advances towards excellence. We are aware – and have said so – of the results of the latest evaluations, for which we are taking action: global training initiative, implementation of the educational-pedagogical model, improvement plans, the basis for the education agreement, etc., etc. And if we focus on data, indicators, results, a diagnosis of our system, please try not to give biased information. Betting on the investment of a system is not only measured by the result of a competition, it is not only measured in PISA. The bet of our education is also seen in other results and indicators. We have the lowest school drop-out rate in the State, below the European average, 7%; we are among the three autonomous communities with the lowest repetition rate; we have the highest percentage of population between 30 and 34 years of age who have completed tertiary studies; we have the highest percentage of schooling of two years, almost doubling the state average; we have the highest percentage of approved university access test, 98%. In addition to training our sons and daughters, employability is also a goal in their future. Only two points: in the field of youth employment, in 2017 84% of young people who have completed the Dual Vocational Training were hired the following day. According to Eurostat 2016, the employment rate after university studies is well above the state and EU average: 74.3% Euskadi, compared to 58% Spain. Our investment in education – let's not forget also the investment in school transport, in dining rooms, scholarships, 0-3 years, Multiannual Infrastructure Plan – also gives these results. We have our young people in the school system, they are trained, they get their degrees, they are placed. It can't be that our system is just the image you're trying to convey. We must continue to work – and we have said that over and over again – to improve our data towards excellence, but from inclusion and equity. We are clear that our data support that we bet we leave no one on the road; I repeat: an education for all and for all. Education is too important to be subject to party interests.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interadectation, Jon Hernandez Hidedez, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, at the head of Eplegus and Polic Society, concerning the state of the Eukadian pensioners." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u77	Mrs. Artola generous, good morning. As you know, because we have also been talking in this Parliament for two days on this issue, in the last weeks and months we are experiencing a process of major, forceful and widespread mobilizations throughout the State and in particular here in Euskadi. Mobilizations in defence of a public pension system that is sufficient, that is, that guarantees sufficient income to maintain a life worthy of our and our elders, those who access by their age to retirement and those who are entitled to public pensions. They are demanding pensions that can guarantee them a decent life, that is, adequate and up-to-date. This, in fact, is nothing more than asking the public administration, of which you are also a member, and governments, to comply with the law. They therefore call for something as simple as the fulfilment of their obligations by Governments and the public administration. These protests have been triggered and promoted by the direct victims of the degradation – a degradation, in our opinion, as you know also, intentional – of the public pension system. Pensioners and pensioners are aware of the harsh situation in their meats and have taken the initiative. They have begun to mobilize, are organized and are convinced of the need to fight for their demands to the end. The struggle that our elders have decided to start is not only for the improvement of their particular situation today, but it is a struggle for a decent public pension system, not only for them, but also for the rest of generations that by biological imperative we will arrive sooner or later at the retirement age. It is, therefore, a solidarity struggle that our elders are carrying out. A struggle which we are going to benefit all of us, and which, in our opinion, must therefore be supported and supported not only by those who are younger, not only by political, trade union, social organizations, etc., but also by institutions and governments. For all governments. But while this movement to fight for decent public pensions is aware that it is defending the rights of all to achieve that public system worthy for the present and for the future, it is also true that the detonation that has caused the wick of mobilization to take hold, the spark that has triggered the mechanism of popular pressure, has been concretely the loss of the purchasing power of the current pensioners and the precarious situation that is beginning to spread widely among those who have spent a lifetime working to find themselves now without being able to reach the end of the month due to this loss of purchasing power. In Euskadi, as in other places, this has been the trigger that has made what began with concentrations in different localities by those who no longer endure among our elders have become a powerful movement that overflows the streets and occupies front lines in the media. And they actually can't stand it anymore because it rains on wet, because this loss of purchasing power that they suffer due to the perverse reforms approved in the public pension system falls on an already precarious situation earlier: more than half of the pensioners in Euskadi are below 1000 euros, and four out of 10 retirees charge less than the interprofessional minimum wage. And of these, most charge less than 650 euros; that, with the cost of living in this corner of the world, is a situation of absolute precariousness. Although we already know that you in particular think that 650 euros to live is not so bad. I'm sure you regret that statement. In Euskadi there are more than half a million pensioners, of whom, therefore, more than 250,000 do not reach milleurists and of whom almost 200,000 are paid below the interprofessional minimum wage. The additions that some of them charge to these racist pensions in our Community through income guarantee income barely reach 1,500 pensioners of all of them. The message that we have to defend the reforms necessary to win a public pension system that guarantees us a dignified life until the end of today has already been taken up by this Parliament with the agreement reached in this House on 1 March at the initiative of our parliamentary group, but we are still not clear whether that message is taken up by the government you are part of. It is true that this morning the Lehendakari has told us that the Basque Government is taking on that message and taking on those commitments. We would also like you to clarify from your responsibility whether that commitment by the Basque Government will be firm with the measures we agreed on 1 March. And by the way, I take this opportunity to ask you what your Government, of which you are a member, believes in other measures that have remained on the road because they are not accepted by the main partner of the Government, the Basque Nationalist Party, measures such as the "delete" of the maximum bases of contribution and the elimination of tax deductions to the hiring of private pension plans, which in our view would help to improve this public pension system and to increase the degree of solidarity in it. We believe that there should be a serious commitment on the part of the parties and coalitions that voted for this agreement so as not to betray it in any way. And that necessarily happens, among other things, because those of us who voted on that March initiative do not support in the Congress of Deputies possible general budgets that collect the measures that we have committed ourselves to combat, such as updating pensions below the increase in the CPI, the cost of living. My coalition will, of course, fulfil that commitment, and I hope that the other groups that have reached that agreement will also do so. But we would also like to know what opinion your Government has on a possible approval of the State General Budgets if they maintain the policies which this House rejected by an overwhelming majority on 1 March and which affect the pensioners. Among them, as I say to you, the rise of pensions in such a way that they continue to lose purchasing power. If your Government has seriously and thoroughly analysed the consequences on people's living conditions of this slight increase of 0.25, it will have come to the conclusion that it is important, among other things, to plant for the Budgets that will make it possible in practice again. Our group does not know – and this is our question – whether you have analysed in depth the harsh consequences that this radical rise of 0.25 is having on the living conditions of the pensioners. And if they've been analyzed, we don't know what conclusions they've come to. And if among them is that importance to which I have referred to combating budgets that maintain that 0.25 based on the so-called "Pension Sustainability Act", we would like to know whether they have come to that conclusion; we do. We would like to know these questions from the Social Policy Officer in Euskadi, Mrs Artolazabal. We believe that not only the parties and coalitions here – and, above all, in Congress – have a role to play in this regard. We believe that our Government here in Euskadi must also have a proactive attitude to support the necessary measures to reverse the negative consequences of the attack on the public pension system by private interests. And that is why we want to know, Mrs Artolazabal, what position and what concrete actions the Government of which you are part of is going to develop to support and help at least the measures which this Parliament has already explained as necessary on 1 March can finally be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u78	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u79	Good morning again. In the first place, although this jurisdiction is now in possession of the state, I defend the public system of pensions, and in this I firmly believe. I think it's essential to the model of social superiority that we've been building for so many years. However, we still have many parts to develop here in the Eukadin and throughout Europe. I think it's fair to guarantee worthy pensions that fit to the present state. These manifestations demonstrate the commitment of the citizenry to defending the social rights acquired through the social effort to consolidate them as a fundamental pillar of the welfare state. The Basque Government has no competence in the area of pensions. This debate must take place within the appropriate framework, based on the principles of sufficiency and sustainability and based on the existence of decent pensions within the framework of solidarity and transparency. Approaches must be honest and seek the greatest consensus to ensure the stability of measures and agreements. In addition, we advocate updating pensions on the basis of the CPI. We call for the transfer to Euskadi of the competence of the economic system of social security. Policies are better managed from administrations closer to the problems of citizenship, and Euskadi is an example of this. Aware of the situation of people with lower pensions, we complement their income through income guarantee income; this shows that, if we manage from here, we do it better and society is more advanced. The Lehendakari said so today, and has recalled the request for the transfer of management of the economic system of social security provided for in the Statute of Gernika, within its unitary character and respect for the principle of solidarity, and all this through a convention, as laid down in the fifth transitional provision of the Statute of Gernika. Currently, of the 59,206 cohabitation units benefiting from income guarantee income, 15,279 are pensioners, i.e. 25,8 %; more than EUR 46 million is allocated to this group, and EUR 4 million is paid monthly to the cohabitation units. We must be aware and consistent with what the data provide: the benefits of our income guarantee system are the ones that most directly focus on the population at greatest risk (96.6% of the expenditure on CVP and AES guarantee income reaches this group). You also rule in other places where this slight 0.25% rise is also occurring. And what measures are they going to take to correct or solve them? It is precisely those limits of the general system of State protection that have given meaning to the Euskadi income guarantee system. Our system contributes 41.7% of the income of the population facing situations of real poverty. A contribution that is almost twice as much as 23.2% that corresponds to the total income from the State system of general protection, be it pensions, unemployment or others. I believe that we have enough data in Euskadi to know the situation of pensioners living here, so we can ensure that our Government defends and takes measures to give dignity to the lowest pensions. Precisely, our society receives in Euskadi the highest pensions of the State. The issue in this House is not new, Mr Hernández. It was just here yesterday. This is not the first time we have come to talk about dignified pensions, and we will do so as many times as it takes, so long as we move forward in the necessary debate, to achieve consensus, to achieve consolidation and to ensure that the future of the pension system is properly consolidated. But long-term urgent measures are already needed to seek consensus, and this is not the framework; it is another framework in which we need to get to the point of analysing, evaluating and discussing. In this context, solutions must be put in place for today's pensioners who do not lose their well-being, purchasing power and continue to contribute to the country's progress and economy. Measures must also be put in place to ensure that tomorrow's pensions are guaranteed. It is necessary to update the system in order to consolidate it and make it viable for future generations, because this is required by the investment of the demographic pyramid, the impact of the economic crisis and the wage situation. And we have to overcome labour reform to enable better jobs, with greater contributions to social security. In our view, Law 23/2013, which regulates the Sustainability Factor and the Social Security Pension System Revaluation Index, should be repealed. As conceived, and without any other conditioning, the law leads to a drastic drop in perceptions, which would become even more evident from next year, with the entry into force of the sustainability factor. On this issue we also align ourselves with the non-legislative proposal discussed on 1 March last. As was achieved in 1989, we must reach a broad consensus on the construction of this fundamental system for social cohesion and social justice. And I recall and insist that the decision of this Parliament calling on the Spanish Government to ensure a sufficient and sustainable public pension system, based on a right to decent pensions, within a framework of solidarity and transparency, and supported by certain sources of funding, is something that we agree on and that we are defending and demanding.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u81	Thank you. I therefore understand or deduce from your words the commitment of the Government to which you are a party to the measures proposed in this Parliament on 1 March is firm. That is what I understand from your words, that is what I understand even from what the Lehendakari expressed this morning; therefore, that was the reason for my inquiry, if you have heard – which I know you have heard – my previous intervention, asking you, precisely, what actions, what position the Government will have on a very specific issue. One of the measures agreed in this Parliament, to which you have referred and said that you agree and that your commitment is firm with it, is not to raise pensions below that CPI, as it currently happens, something that in order for it to have to happen again has to be approved in the general budgets of the State. And that is the specific part on which I would like to ask the Government today, what actions the Basque Government is going to take towards the general budgets of the State in relation to this, beyond saying that it agrees with the issue. That is the question we are asking the Government because – I also said yesterday in this House – we think that in order for what we adopt here on 1 March not to be a declaration of intent, all actors must have an active attitude in defending these measures. And when I say all the actors I am not referring only to political groups, and I am not referring only to political groups in the Congress of Deputies; I am referring specifically – and that is why this question to the Government – to the attitude and actions that the Government can take to prevent us from having again some General Budgets of the State of the People's Party that, among many negative issues, in our opinion, for citizens include that slight increase of 0.25 % for pensioners and pensioners. I hope that this commitment from the Government will be firm and will also materialize in the fight against those negative budgets for society, and that is my question, and I believe that we will agree to acknowledge the Government's attitude if it does not actually trade with those budgets and betray this issue. We do, Mrs Artolazabal, it is our opinion; you may not share it, but for us this is important. These budgets, among other things, will allow this to continue, and we therefore ask whether the Government intends to have an active attitude on this issue. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u82	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u83	Mr. Hernandez. I believe that they confuse the issues that have to do with the Government with the issues that have to do with the political parties today, and therefore we as a Government will do what we have to do, and the political parties that reach agreements in the different institutions to get the best benefits for the Basque people will do so based on the priorities and needs they think we have in this society. I sincerely believe that we need to escape the partisan debates when we talk about consolidating and guaranteeing the future of a basic pillar such as the construction of the welfare state that we have achieved with so much effort. There is no demagoguery in this matter of vital importance to our society and to our pensioners. A little over a month ago..., no more than two months ago, we were visited by a colleague of yours, the social policy adviser of the Community of Castilla La Mancha, who, along with her team, came to learn and gather experiences of what we have been doing since Euskadi in the field of social protection, and wanted us to explain to them, to show them, to tell them what strategies we have been implementing from the government, especially those aimed at the most vulnerable and also the most disadvantaged sectors. And his interest was greatest. And at the end of those meetings they thanked and praised us for what we were doing here in Euskadi; in particular, the income guarantee income and also the concern we had for the groups to whom the aid we gave was intended. Therefore, Mr Hernandez, do not demagogy by saying in one place one thing and in another different scenario. Here we are working seriously, and when you have said that we betray, I sincerely believe that what we do is look after the interests of all Basques, and look for solutions that will improve the quality of life of those who live here. With regard to the possibility of supplementing lower pensions by means of GIR, we are already doing so, and I also think that there are two different things: one, which has to be complementary to lower incomes or pensions, and the other, which has to be establishing a minimum of these. One cannot pretend to fill all the gaps in the rest of the systems and institutions by means of income-guarantee income, and it must be made clear what the objective of this benefit, of income, is to alleviate a timely situation of vulnerability of people so that they do not fall into poverty and that they do not lag behind. In the face of this challenge, it is essential to bring together messages in the demand for the transfer of management of the economic system of Social Security. And this is not a whim or a specific claim: this request is an appeal for compliance with a law, it is a question of complying with the Statute of Gernika after 40 years. As I moved in my first speech, we join the agreement adopted at the session held on March 1, 2018 regarding the government's proposal to properly manage Social Security and pensions here, and our commitment is total and absolute. I share the need to ensure an adequate and sustainable public pension system; that it is based on the right to decent pensions, within the framework of solidarity and transparency; that it is supported by certain sources of funding; and that it also ensures that such pensions are dignified and predictable. And we also have to add to the request to repeal the law, the Law 23/2013, which regulates the Sustainability Factor and the Revaluation Index of the Social Security Pension System, in order to guarantee decent pensions, restoring the link to the IPC as a formula for updating them. In this country we have been able to join forces and reach important consensus, and the demand for greater capacity for self-government will offer us the guarantee of the improvement of the quality of life of Basque citizens. Once we have assumed this competence, I am convinced that we will reach agreements to make it sustainable, guaranteeing a dignified life for the elderly in Euskadi. But as long as the transfer is not carried out, the debate on how to ensure a stable public pension system that promotes social cohesion and avoids the exclusion situation must be given where it is appropriate. In the meantime, we will maintain social priority, so the Government will continue to act rigorously and to ensure compliance with and supplementation of lower pensions as regulated by Law 18/2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interadectition by Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Team Members of the United States made for the Presidency of Eplegus and National Society, concerning the condition of youth." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Legs, and good morning to all of you. Good morning, chief of the Artola generouss. All that is personal is political, and I would like to begin my speech by removing that heavy armor which is often carried out of the personal area and in the art of politics to-day, although I feel uncomfortable, although I don't like talking about myself. I am not an astrosist, nor a catastrophist; those around me, who know me, say that I am one of those who seek positive differences in the face of difficulties, an optimist, and I need to clear this somewhat personal account, because there are very disturbing data at the foundation of this interpenetration we have brought here. And I don't want anyone to think I'm painting an uninteresting stage because it's often hearing her wrong and because of her prejudices. Besides, I dare say that because the chief physician and I are indissistent data and they express the objective meaning of the "Araba," of the young men of Bizkai and Gipucia, at least in the diagnosis and in the reading of the situation. Thus, for example, the Diagnostic of the Young Worlds' Accusations published by the Euskalsians, is received here in the last week, in this Parliament, in the year of which you have been introduced. During the study of the Basque Economic Economic Economic Economic Economic Department of your department. And very clear and meaningful are the tendencies that mark the data and this data. I can't bring them all here today, but I'd like to talk about some of them. For the past few months, we've been in the center of public discussions about the demographic change, and now you've been talking about it. [[Shows a graph.]] In this first graphic, we can see what is the development of the younger Basque index in the last 15 years, the percentage of their weight in society: In 2001, 21,6, we have one of the lowest parts of Europe today, 13,1. This is the data that supposes that in 2001 there were 4530,000 young men in the society of EAE and today 2830,000 young men, 170,000 selects, I have well said that the number, 1700,000 Aran, Biska, and Gipuzian.) In this second graphic, we can see what the fertility rate of a thousand women, a thousand women, and, even, if the births of 26,3 of one thousand inhabitants are to be said to be double in the European Union, at the same time we can see that we are faced with a disturbing data. What I have brought in this graph is what kind of tendency young people have in the last decade: The graph shows that the percentage has been terribly low: In 2006, she was working 54%.9, but only 37% of them worked. And finally I brought here a fourth graphic: it is the rate of unemployment of young men in 2006, when they are 7% and at present, although it is true that in the last year the rate is descending, because it is now a triple rate of unemployment. In many experts these are the effects of globalization, and they say we are faced with a paradigma change. And we cannot content ourselves with a superficial analysis and giving answers from an economistist view. And this is because we believe that this government is planning from the prism of a discourse and uneasiness, which is directed to the young, bound to the financery of the model of well-being, but principally to the necessity of the industrious; the young must be employed in cogitating, the young must have their children before they can increase their birth rates, and so on. The question is if there are enough people, enough work hands, enough quotes. I mean, it's at the Economics Center and not the young, not the people. You yourself, Mrs. Artola generous, as you said during some exercises, must bring children to maintain pensions, or because we need labouring hands. And we and we, Mrs Artolazabal, do not share that approach, it is that it does not stand for itself; if not, explain to us why we want to have more sons and daughters the Basques, if then many of them have to go away to seek life, that generation of young people so prepared and of which we boast so much, that generation of young people for whom there is no work here or that which there is so precarious that they choose to go away to be able to develop their life plan. Its department, through the Gazte Plana and the 2020 Strategy, mainly proposes two measures for the employability of young people: on the one hand, the Lehen Aukera programme, and, on the other, the bonus to the relief contract. Then, it is true, another series of complementary measures, but less silent; let's say that these are their star measures. You encourage access to a first job with Lehen Aukera. After unremunerated practices in most cases, a first job experience under conditions such that young people and young women gain 24 % less than those who already work in the same jobs, when the first salary of what the Basque girls and young women receive barely 900 euros, with the Lehen Aukera programmes, when young Basques need at least 53 % of their salary to access a home. And this leads us to the conclusion, according to several studies, that Basque youth should charge twice as much to be able to be independent in solitary; Therefore, look at the challenge ahead. And this is the greatest defect in this government of young men to promote their employment, because the quantum aims which you have fixed will be filled with the inertia of the markets and the economy, without doing little. You're not ambitious in that, you have to say that. But where are the quantum favors of these employments? In your plans there are difficulties to develop that must be an orientation of new employment policies for young people, which will expose an extra-dimensional development. Your plans do not make any attempt to object and quantitative ends with quantum nature. Of all the measures which tend to promote youth's office, there can be no indication of the quality of the job it wants to be produced, nor of the quality which we mentioned before. They are all quantitative purposes; there is no satisfactory purpose in your plans. And as for the second star measure that his department launched, the contract relief, the access to the contract relief and the subsidy to encourage that contract, the data are suspense. The relief contract, it is true that it grew in 2016 by 9%, but the aid that the Basque Government put in place was completely ignored: of 1,409 relief contracts that were signed in 2016, only 31 out of 1,409, only 31, were accepted to that subsidy; therefore, as I have said, the rating can only be suspended. In this sense, in a short period of time, we plan a plan of impact that will enable us to end our young friends' structure with a worthy job. On Wednesday we did it, it wasn't accepted, we couldn't accept it with the local teams, but we think we need a plan of impact that will ensure a decent job. Eta denbora agortzen ari zazidanez, datu bi gazteen emantzipaziorako – Etxebizitza-sailburua eseri beri denez – arazo kronifikatua den etxebizitzarako sarbidean inguruan nahiko nituzke eman: 71.5% of Basques under 30 years live with their parents (71.5); the rest live, most of them, rent. We are faced with covert poverty, as more than 113,000 Basques, the majority between 18 and 44 years of age, cannot be independent due to a lack of sufficient income. That's a covert poverty. And you said the other day that young people choose to rent. I told him it's not that they choose, it's that they don't have another, because being young and owning a house is a contradiction in terms. From the starting point in which we are faced with a larger ambition and a paradigma change, this government must conclude the challenges which this government has in this circle. If not, better plans could be worse, but they won't have any modification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u86	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u87	Like I asked for last week's performance, which is the end of the Euköhn. The young man's plan was to coordinate all the policies which influence the young, and to answer his needs. In particular, these young men have been handed over to us, in the forum formed for this purpose, their contributions during the preparation. A week ago, yesterday, I shared with you, Mr. Estarrona, the details of the IV. Gazte Plana, and I explained to him the objectives that we had planned in this Government and in relation to Basque youth, and today we come back with it again. It has not been a week, and we repeat the same speeches we both made in the committee. The situation of Basque youth, its problems and its expectations for the future are key issues for my department and the Basque Government. Employment, housing and education are the areas of greatest relevance in this legislature within the policies we implement for this age group. These same areas make up the first axis of the IV. Plane Gazette. In the field of employment we have set ourselves as the main objective, as you well know, to generate more and better employment for young people. And the goal is to increase employment opportunities for young people, facilitating the first work experience for 20,000 young Basques. Already in 2017 we have managed to integrate 6,820 young people into the world of employment. As for housing, we want to facilitate access to it preferably for rent, in order to bring the age of emancipation closer to that desired by our youth. On education we work on the development of values and to extend multilingualism among young people, and we consider it necessary to offer quality education, which Euskadi develops in all its centers and stages, for the entire youth group, with the aim of moving its future towards employment integration. A proper educational basis serves to achieve quality employment and develop a professional career in order to opt for emancipation through housing. It is precisely housing that is the final element for our youth to develop an independent life project. And these are the main problems faced by the young people of Euskadi last year and which we collected in detail in our documents in order to make further progress. In the study presented in July last year, "Euskadi Youth Challenges 2017", young Basques under the age of 30 identified as one of their main concerns facing labour market and economic problems. We are aware that young people have many problems, but they themselves have told us that employment, access to the labour market and economic problems are the ones that matter most, Mr Estarrona; and, therefore, in the Gazte Plana and in the rest of the actions that we are implementing from the government, one of our challenges, apart from others, is to meet that need that they themselves are putting us on the table. They were also a major concern, but in the second place, housing, education and health. In the participation forums in which the Fourth Plane Gazette was discussed, the young participants shared 100% of the concerns and supported the need to encourage policies in these three specific areas (work, employment, health), as well as in housing and education. For this reason, we have set strategic objectives in the different areas that encourage the implementation of an independent life project for the youth of Euskadi. With regard to employment, the plan proposed five strategic objectives, as I mentioned earlier, with 18 lines of action and 42 priority initiatives. Within these five objectives that we see as priorities for improving the employment situation in Euskadi, the first would be the closest approach and speed in the transition from education to work, because it is necessary to reduce the time it takes since the completion of studies and the beginning of work. And that's why we act in different areas, such as innovation in employment, focusing on awareness and commitment of employers. We are also working on the comprehensive development of the dual training system and the adaptation of training to labour market demand. Another axis on which we are working is employment and quality. To this end, always together with businesses, the educational world and society, we are facilitating young people's early work experiences and promoting the recruitment of experienced young people and improving employment opportunities. We also promote training aimed at improving the conditions of employability with information in socio-occupational guidance, and it is necessary to continue to promote job opportunities for young people in strategic sectors of the Community, as well as in activation training. Other areas on which we are working are improving the working conditions of young people, young people, which requires information and communication, in order to reduce disaster, as well as preventing and making decisions in the field of occupational health. We also want more young entrepreneurs, and that is why the boost of entrepreneurship means that we want more young people to start new personal projects, and for this we are promoting entrepreneurial vocations, supporting these initiatives, as well as the social economy. And in the area of employment inclusion for young people at risk of exclusion, we are also working with the strategic objective, no doubt, of giving these young people opportunities to avoid situations of exclusion. To this end, we work individually to improve training and qualification, in addition to specific guidance and support. It's more than intentions, Mr. Estarrona. These are five strategic objectives for one of the key sectors for the youth of Euskadi, which is employment. In the area of housing, more access to housing for young people is needed; for this purpose, a preferential housing reserve protected by young people will be established from the Housing Department, and new formulas and measures will be developed to promote youth rental. It is a unique and great goal in the housing area, and for that we are focusing the needs that young people have in emancipating themselves, because their purpose is to have a greater choice in accessing a housing. But for that longing emancipation, the right education of young people is necessary, and in Euskadi we are fortunate to have a good education system, in which we are also working values such as peace, coexistence, equality, respect, the prevention of gender-based violence. They are necessary values for the social construction of any country. Another area to work within education is getting more young multilingual people within our system. To this end, we are promoting Basque in the field of leisure and youth social life, also developing the language skills of other languages as a basis for greater openness to the world. We will continue to work on equal opportunities in the education system, facilitating access, permanence and completion of mainly post-compulsory studies; in addition, we also focus on the model of the Basque inclusive school. Finally, we are promoting the role of young researchers, and for this we are going to promote vocations from an early age and we will support young researchers to promote their careers, especially in the area of young women. Employment, housing and education. These are the three ingredients necessary to enable the youth of Euskadi to develop their independent life project, and that is the goal pursued by the IV Youth Plan. We have proposed 169 initiatives in collaboration with the rest of the Government departments. Some will be new and others will be existing programs, and some will have to be improved, I recognize; the contract program relief – I told you in committee – has not achieved the results. For this we are doing an analysis, so that it is attractive, both to the companies and to the workers who are in receipt of the contract. We have a trained youth, the best form in our country's history, and yesterday they were saying it also in another forum in which I participated and I didn't say it, other representatives said: new opportunities are needed for them to prove it, and that's what we're working on. From the Government we provide the necessary tools to boost the capacities of our youth and help in the search for these opportunities, in order to achieve their vital objectives and take their place within our society. But all of this, Mr Estarrona, was mentioned to you a week ago in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy when I presented the Fourth Plane Gazette, and of course from one week to here I have no news or changes in the programme in which we have been working for a long time with the aim of helping young Basques to achieve their future challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u89	You have no news in a week or a year, Mrs Artolazabal, that's the problem. That is the problem, which you have come here, you have read to us a retahíla of 18 concrete measures, 45 actions, but no news regarding previous plans collected. And we all know the same recipe, the same results. I believe that one of the most important issues I wanted to raise here today in the debate is the need to be aware and to put forward measures and solutions for young people from the new paradigm before which we stand. The Basque Economic and Social Council also takes this up, and I suppose you will have read it, Madam Counsellor, and also encourages us to really agree with the social, political and economic actors in this country to put an urgent shock plan. I repeat, it is one of the measures that Euskal Herria Bildu proposed last Wednesday in the monograph and that some of the parties present here rejected. And that, too, is proposed by the Euskadi Economic and Social Council. Therefore, surely, and I believe that Maddalen Iriarte in the morning said, surely, you will come shortly with a shock plan in those conditions, not at the request of Euskal Herri Bildu. And then, I would like to read a small passage on work and job placement and housing from the Youth Plan, which says that "Employment issues are one of the main concerns for reflection today". He adds that "Unemployment is perceived today by young people as an authentic social scourge that hinders their personal development and full social integration." And then he talks about the new configuration of a new work culture, the need to strengthen work integration pathways, the drive for entrepreneurship and the improvement of collaboration in employment policies. And on housing he says that "it is one of the nuclear aspects in the current diagnosis of youth. Together with employment, housing is one of the main elements in the process of emancipation of the individual." Well, they're passages from the 1999 Basque Autonomous Community Youth Plan, a young plan that was designed 20 years ago. A young plan that was the pioneer of the II Youth Plan of the Basque Autonomous Community of 2002-2005, of the III and of this IV that you present to us, and we see how the situation and problems of youth in this country, 20 years later, remain the same. Therefore, this leads us to conclude that, indeed, the young plans that have been put forward and that have been put in place, the strategies and measures that the different autonomous governments have put in place have not served anything, or at least have not been able to turn around the situation that our young people and our people are suffering. And I don't want to stretch much longer. The Economic and Social Council simply points this out, and we too believe that it must be so, that in addition to that shock plan, that necessary shock plan, talka-plan horretatik apart from uste dugulako herri-erronkek herri-erantzuna eskatzen dutela, eta, zentzu horretan, CESek esan bezala, EGABk (Euskadiko Ekonomia eta Gazteria Arazoetarako Batzordeak) argi uzten du berre txostenean, eta berberio nagusietako bat horri da, herri-akordio bat behar dela gasteek dituzten arazoei weretzuna emateko, and that we all need to work to achieve, in this sense, a country pact.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u90	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u91	Mr Estarrona, we have been working for a long time for Basque youth; moreover, we are not doing it alone, we are doing it with young people, with associations, with the rest of the groups that have something and want to contribute in the field of youth. And, therefore, I am sure that all the plans can be improved, I recognize it and there are also data that show it, but I also want to be fair to show that the situation that young Basques had 10 years ago is not the same as they have now, and I am referring, for example, to the unemployment rate, which you have shown in one of those cards, in which there were rates of thirty-five percent, and at the moment we are at rates of 15%. We continue to have an important challenge in which to move forward, we must also continue to work on the quality of that job, but we must also recognise that the unemployment rate in the youth sector in Euskadi has fallen and has fallen significantly. It is true that what I have told you is what I transferred you to the previous committee and that the news has already been transferred to you at that time. But I would like, equally, in this situation, and having the opportunity to talk about young people and the Plane Gazette, to put to you a series of results that we have had during the first exercise of this legislature and that, well, I believe that, if we are objective, I believe that they have been good results, although certainly better. We had planned throughout the legislature to offer 20,000 opportunities to young people in four years; if we do the calculation, of the 5,000 that can correspond to us in the first year of the legislature, in 2017 the number of young people who have already accessed their first job has been 6,820; for example, 498 have participated in the Lehen Aukera program; 1,040 young people have acceded to a first job after the completion of dual training; or also, 1,126 have done so by completing both at university and in vocational training, have participated in practical experiences of transition from the educational world to the world of work. Similarly, 834 young people under the age of 35 have been recruited through local and regional employment plans. And this is to cite only some of the examples. From the different administrations and also from the different departments of the Government we are working. You used to say that in the first intervention, didn't you? We have a challenge, a demographic challenge; for that we are proposing concrete measures. We are also trying to reduce the rate of youth unemployment, and, as I said, there has been a marked drop in the rate of youth unemployment. In the area of housing, access to protected housing is being adapted to facilitate access to young people in order to reduce their emancipation age. There are pilot experiences to facilitate emancipation through shared rent, and therefore we continue to make progress. With reference to the study carried out by the Economic and Social Council of Euskadi, my department has participated in the forums created during the preparation of this study, and of course we know the results of this study and carefully analyse them. Our goal as a government is clear: to improve the situation of young people in the Basque Country. Not only do you compare yourself with other regions and countries in Europe, Mr Estarrona; we do so too, to know where we are and to identify good practices that can improve the situation of our youngest social group, and there are things we need to move forward. Emancipation is the door for young people to start an independent life project, and, I insist, employment, housing and education are the three fundamental pillars for achieving this emancipation as successfully as possible. What we want for the youth of Euskadi is for this to be what it wants to be and for it to undertake the life project it wants, always on those foundations of values of formation, solidarity and sustainability that characterize the new youth of advanced Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, "To Tinisha Guanche Suáz Together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief physician of Eplegus and Polylican society, concerning economic and indispensive competition for women with children who suffer the force of the genus." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u93	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Congressmans, chief physician, guests. One woman, alone with four children, three children and one girl, three of them with a recognized disability, alone for having had to flee male violence, with a restraining order, alone and without a family support network. You know what Lanbide's done? Cut off your GIR payment, your only income. The standard punishment, one month without benefit, despite not being in place under the current sanctioning regime; in addition, it claims 1,000 euros of undue payments. Reasons? To have been delayed by reporting a couple of income from maintenance and therefore not asserting their economic rights. What's the buzz Tell me what's a-happening about this job of business?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u95	Good morning again. No action by this department or Lanbide promotes, as you propose, the unprotection of women survivors of gender-based violence. Quite the opposite, Mrs. Guanche. First of all, I recognize the courage of women victims of gender-based violence when they take the step of denouncing the aggressor, even more with minors in charge, victims as well. It should not be forgotten that for victims of gender-based violence fear is a brake on denunciation, as well as on emotional and economic dependence in some cases, also shame for the "what they will say" and another set of factors conditioning uncertainty about the future that can wait for them if they take the step. When a woman takes this step, institutions have to be there to accompany and protect her. We're standing there defending your rights. This is done by providing one-time payment aid for a new life, such as that offered by this Government, and Lanbide also lays down more flexible criteria for access to the benefit, as well as for the calculation of non-computable income, not including maintenance. This facilitates protection for victims. In addition, the benefits provided for in the GIR are granted, which, where appropriate, involve a number of advantages or different situations vis-à-vis the general population when applying more flexible criteria in the conditions of access to the benefit, as they may only be required to prove one year of registration instead of three, or to be 18 instead of 23 years of age required of the rest, or to be exempted from the requirement to establish a living unit at least one year in advance of the date of submission of the application. They also benefit from different conditions for the calculation of non-computable income, such as, for example, that they do not compute as income for the GIR any other benefits that have been granted, precisely because they are victims of gender-based violence or that, in exceptional cases, the non-claim of the maintenance pension is accepted to their ex-partner, if there is a report from the basic social service advising them not to claim it for the damage that may be caused to the victim. When we talk about the recognition of the rights contained in the Income Guarantee Act, this entails a number of obligations that result in being a beneficiary of income guarantee income. What is being handled from the department and from Lanbide is in compliance with existing regulations, and in this case, however hard it may seem, the law has been enforced.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u97	The truth, Mrs. Artolazabal, is that you say what you say is an absolute shame. It's simply intolerable. Has it occurred to you for a moment to think about how this woman is doing, besides reading me the portfolio of benefits and requirements, which I already know? This is a sign that you in the center don't put people. This is an empty commitment to all those brave women you named. What do you think women who suffer from sexist violence feel when they hear you say that what has been done is law enforcement? I'm telling you, they're lonely and they feel like no one's gonna help them. This case has now jumped to the media by a resolution by Ararteko, in which Lanbide, this government responds that it doesn't matter how the person receiving the aid is found, that the obligations are fulfilled and point; that they don't understand that the woman doesn't claim alimony from her aggressor partner; that they even know that the abuser does have income and that he can pay the pension, since they do pay his RGI religiously; and finally, but certainly the most aberrant thing – I will read it textually – "that regardless of the praiseworthy work being done by other services of other public institutions, Lanbide has also performed its actions in order to social inclusion of the claimant." Really, doesn't it embarrass you? Really? Do you really believe that Lanbide and this government have complied with this woman? The problem is their priorities. For you, control – a poorly understood control – is above people. Is this the government of the common good, of the Auzolan This, I tell you one thing, is violence from the administration with the most vulnerable people. And yes, you've heard it well, violence, whether you like it or not. I do not say this, Amnesty International says, which defines institutional violence as the action or omission of State agencies to protect and guarantee citizens the full exercise of their human rights. I remind you that this Parliament, at the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos, has already unanimously demanded reports to review the processes of benefits to victims of macho violence, a report that was already committed in 2015. Is this your Government's commitment to Machist violence? Because for now – and we're in 2018 – nothing. Zer lota, Artolazabal andrea! Zer lota! We all know that among people's obligations is to communicate income or change. But are they really not able to look beyond it? Is the exceptional nature of the criteria document, which speaks of causes of force majeure, not applicable to these women? If this is not an exceptionality, you will tell me what you understand. Eight documents have been submitted by this woman. But it's not just that. How can you not value collaboration with social services? Where are the gender units, which have to care for women victims of sexist violence in a specific way? Where? I warn you one thing, Mrs Artolazabal: from Elkarrekin We can be attentive and vigilant and denouncing every abuse of Lanbide, in his reform of Lanbide and in his reform of the RGI. If this is the course they've decided to take, they'll find us in front of them. Perhaps too long in Ajuria Enea is disconnecting her from the sensibility, because this performance is not human, Mrs Artolazabal. Not like that! Not like that! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Your word is yours. Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u99	I, of course, Mrs Guanche, have not come here to make cheap policy in order to be able to accuse of something that is not true, when it comes to managing, how we have to manage income guarantee income or any other benefit that we are obliged to manage properly. You think you're the only one who defends people and that we're the other tyrants who don't care about anything and have no heart when it comes to putting or taking into account situations...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u100	Quiet, Mrs. Guanche. You've had your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u101	If you will allow me, Mrs Guanche, I am on the floor, and, of course, I would like you to respect the use, the same as I have respected yours, despite calling me almost shameless and another set of qualifications that has stuck to me. If the Basque Government is chaired by Mr Urkullu, who belongs to a Government, it will be because the citizens of this country trust in their measures and trust in the work in order to continue to benefit and protect the citizens who live in this country and those who come from other communities and other countries. In the case to which you are referring you have failed to comply with the commitments made by that person as a beneficiary of the benefit. He did not submit any communication about his income. In the case we're dealing with...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Mireguon Ruiz de Gauna EH Collector of the Society, about "Women in Progres 2018." Miss Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u103	On March 6th, the chairman of Women in Progress 2018 said the following words: "Chicas, no obs self-exculuyais de las careras encaminadas al ámbito cífico o industriall." We want to know if that's the chief physician's proposal in that area.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u104	Thank you, ma'am. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u105	What proposal do you mean, Mrs Larion, when you are asking me about this matter? I, what I told the 400 people, mostly young people and especially women, who were on that day that started at nine in the morning and ended at one, among the many things I said was that they should not self-exclude themselves. And what part of that sentence do you disagree with?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u107	I like that you act as opposition from the opposition and return the question to me. Women do not exclude themselves, we do not exclude ourselves from being directors of industrial plants, we do not exclude ourselves from being directors of central banks, nor is it self-exclusion that in technical careers the percentage does not reach 26%, the number of women who lead research groups to 33 and that in chairs we do not reach 25. It's not called self-exclusion. We are not the women who exclude ourselves from the noble awards. What you call self-exclusion, in sociology, is called "the Matilda effect," and it's discrimination. It is the discrimination that women scientists have suffered when their achievements are not recognized, and, moreover, when male colleagues are often attributed the merits that they do not hesitate to make their own. Because I don't know if you'll know, but, for example, Maria Winkelmann didn't self-exclude herself when she discovered a comet, and yet her husband attributed it to her. And, of course, when Lisa Meitner was a collaborator in the discovery of nuclear fusion, but the Nobel was only given to Otto Hahn. Or when Rosa Green Franklyn made the advances to get to know the DNA, but yet the Nobel Prize was given to Wilkinson. The women who, in their words, as would be my case, have not been self-excluded, we could also tell you a lot about the biases that occur in recruitment, also in industrial activities and in scientists. Because, you, what you did that day was a frivolity. Just as it was frivolous to say in those terms, when, for example, the researchers were trying to go to Antarctica to investigate and they were told that they could not be interested in going to Antarctica because there were no shops or hairdressers. And since the subject is very serious, I think we should treat it this way, and I'm also going to invite you to treat it this way from now on. You read the Unesco report, for example, which is called "breaking the code" and which deals with this issue, or you also read the reports from the European Parliament, precisely on issues of STEM, Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics and Gender. And all the reports are going to tell you the same thing, indeed, that now, at the moment, there is a loss for the whole of Europe because we are not women in these areas, because we have to have not only the same rights and responsibilities, but also we have to enjoy the same opportunities for work and that our contribution is equally valued. And that's what happens, that's what happens. It's not self-exclusion, because it's not the same. For example, in research, although the number of women involved in research has increased, it is still lower, but, of course, the percentage in public research remains much higher than in private research. Because, contrary to what Mr Larrañaga says that women tend to choose the worst paid jobs, it seems that the private sector tends to choose men in the best paid jobs. Madam Counsellor, I believe that your speech would have been very different if you had committed yourself – I believe that is your task – to removing the cultural and institutional obstacles that create direct and indirect discrimination against women and if you had also committed yourself to overcoming the also conscious and unconscious stereotypes that we suffer. Madam Counsellor, we would have liked your speech to have been a commitment to push for changes in institutions to end vertical segregation and to encourage women's participation in places where decisions are made. Madam Counsellor, I am going to tell you not to self-exclude yourself and, of course, to work together to ensure that part of society stops excluding women. And with great interest I will always answer how I would solve the problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u108	Thank you, ma'am. The 16th point in the theme list: "My own Gómez Llanos Eusal Popular Group... "I don't know. Oh, yeah! I'm sorry, I'm sorry! I'm sorry. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u109	Thank you, ma'am. You said it, it's a phrase corresponding to a press headline. On that working day that nearly 400 young people attended, most of them women, I participated in it at the end of the day to close it. Of course, this is not the proposal we put forward as a solution to all the problems we have! I think we have to be serious, Mrs Larion, and it is necessary to mark and contextualize the statements that you mention and that were collected after I participated in a day called Women in Progress on March 6th at the Artium Museum in our capital. You're mentioning a headline, a headline strapped to a single sentence of an intervention in a one-day closing. A phrase that I do agree with because those women who were there – and also because they transfer it to me when talking to the university people – when they are going to enroll or have the option to think about what, how to focus or what their profession is in the future, sometimes they self-exclude because they understand that, well, for whatever reasons, that's not going to be something that they can solve their professional career. For example, the name of the IT career was changed, it was added to the title Computer Engineering and this made the decrease in women's enrolment evident and manifest. This was a day of shared work with nearly 400 young students from five schools in Gasteiz, many of them women, 16-year-olds, who at all times showed interest and attention to what was being said and discussed. I, of course, do not consider my statements frivolous, but they were simply made in the context of a day after five hours of work, in which the auditorium had been working and analysing for a long time, and, of course, I did not believe that my way of acting with a view to moving what we want to empower from the government was to be the most appropriate way by letting them, if I may say so, a speech that they would in no way understand me. Therefore, what I did did was to encourage them to continue working, to do whatever they want, to take advantage of the full range of possibilities presented to them at such a crucial time as it is to decide which branch, area or mode they are going to lead their lives to, and not to rule out any professional project to which they can aspire. Let us not remain in the headline, Mrs Larion, and let us not just focus on the anecdote. We must continue to work for a society that equals and achieves greater quotas of equality, both in productive and reproductive tasks. We have to go on...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u110	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I've given you more time...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u111	We have to keep working so that the unemployment rate...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u112	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u113	What?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u114	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u115	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u116	The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "About my attitude to the disalgish of ETB and the desertion of terrorism." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u117	Gracias, señora presidenta. Good morning, everyone. On 9 January ETB issued a programme, "The Children of the Backpack", which reflected the travel of the children of the prisoners of the terrorist band ETA to see their parents in prison. That is true, the latter, the crimes for which they were convicted were not mentioned at any time on the programme; it was completely omitted that they were in prison for murdering, for extortioning, for threatening; that they were in prison for terrorists. Why don't you count this out? Why can't we count the pain those terrorists left on the road before they went to prison? When have we seen an ETB program in which the protagonist was the pain of the children who have lost their parents? Or parents who have lost their children to ETA? When has ETB shown a pinch of sensitivity to the victims of terrorism? Why this constant effort to side with the executioners, the terrorists? How is it possible that a public television, paid with the money of all Basques, issues a programme dedicated to the children of ETA prisoners to present them as victims? Counselor, the truth is that I ask you the question without much hope that you will answer it and not send me to the Board of Directors, but your department has a programme contract with EITB under which it undertakes to give quality information, to tell the truth and to be in favour of the delegitimization of terrorism. Do you think ETB does?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u118	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u119	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Mrs Llanos, I will answer the question that you sent me in writing. I take it that you raised on the EITB Board of Directors a question concerning a documentary referring to pensions that some pensioners claim insufficiently. I have the impression that the question on the Board of Directors does not satisfy it and comes here to weigh chocolate a little bit, if you can. Your question, in fact, is not an act of censorship. Its only objective is to generate – equal has been confused, I don't know –..., its only objective is to increase, create an environment of suspicion about EITB and the activity of the entity's professionals. And this time it comes with the argument that our television, Basque television, is not used enough in the delegitimization of terrorism. I've known her for a year, I've watched her come up here on Fridays, and the truth is she says terrible things, and I can't understand who gave you that degree of moral and ethical superiority that makes you feel superior to most of your Basque fellow citizens. And don't cheat on us, because with this accusation that you bring today, what you're doing is not criticizing EITB, it's questioning the professional performance of a journalist who has put her image and signature in the interviews she conducted for that documentary. You, I don't know, but I, of course, have no reason to suspect the professional and ethical attitude of that informant. Do you have it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u120	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u121	Thank you again, Madam President. Counselor, I have set the previous example for you. I give you the example you were referring to, the example of putting a prisoner, a fugitive from ETA, as an example of Basque retirees, as if there was no other example to set, as if among all Basque retirees there was a need to resort to an escape from the terrorist band ETA to set it as an example of the precariousness that Basque pensioners are going through. And that's what I'm telling you, basically what I'm saying is that ETB has become an instrument in favor of the story. And it is not a question of moral superiority, no, no, at all; it is a question of reality, of what has become ETB, of what is an instrument at this time ETB and what should be it. It should be an instrument in favour of the delegitimization of terrorism and it is an instrument of the opposite, of paying an account of the infinite tie, of the infinite equidistance, of wanting to compare sufferings, as if they were comparable. And that's unwarranted, Counselor. It is absolutely unjustifiable for a public television, paid with the money of all Basques, to be involved over and over again, in subscribing to the theory of equalization of suffering and in not delegitimizing terrorism and in carrying out one of the missions that as a public service you have and that you have signed with your Government, with the department that you run. That is why I say to you, Mr. Counsellor: stop looking elsewhere, stop taking away responsibilities which are yours, which are yours. Take the necessary steps to ensure that ETB complies with its obligations to delegitimize terrorism. Stop throwing balls out and take advantage of my supposed moral superiority, which is not at all, simply not to answer me. In ETB there is a constant intention to legitimize the positions of the executioners, constant, and you should say something, your Government should say something. It cannot always pass by, as it always does in this House, because, unfortunately, again and again, you, what you do in this House is to pass by long before the questions of the opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u122	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u123	President andrea. Mrs. Llanos, I won't be long, I don't think I usually do. But I will begin by telling you that, in addition to being surprised by your attitude, I deeply dislike your attitude, your tone and your permanent aggressiveness, which I do not share or understand. The subject that brought us to this table is a pensioner program, but I'm not going to talk about pensions. The way in which you have raised the issue raises me and raises a number of questions that are important to me, although perhaps not to you. And they are because I think they have something to do with how we manage our coexistence. You are raising questions that seek to take censorship measures that, in my view, are frankly worrying and suggest a number of questions to me. Does citizen Ángel Mayor have the right to give his testimony about his situation as a retired pensioner, apart from his past? Do journalists in this country have an obligation to know who Angel Mayor is? Who is Angel Mayor so that we impose on all informants in this country the obligation to know him? Is Mr. Mayor, aside from his past, a citizen who today has his rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the law? Do you have any limitations? Who's decided? When will we consider rehabilitating a person who has paid the debts he has had in the past with society and with justice: when will justice decide it or when you decide it? I believe that these people do the same for a case of conviction for terrorism, for the crime of theft, fraud or torture. And be careful who has the last word. Of course, I don't think it's up to us to have that last word either to you or to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u124	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interregation, the Forest of House Farms, and the legislatures of the Levant, to the Chief of Work and Justice, the condition and rights of domestic workers." Mrs. New House, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u125	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. March 8: Half a.m., women have gathered together at ten o'clock under the Portuguese Biscay Bridge; they all go in black, violet brades on their arms, silent, with washing gloves in their hands, and their hands lifted up. [[Shows a photo]] "All rights," "Seternity," "Buena viditate," "Ressetame," "Se lo que valgo," "Descan," "Just date," "pretations" can be read in these gloves. Quiet, but with a searching look they look at us in the eyes. It is evident that they must fight for their rights, and that they will continue to fight. Gradually the gloves hang on a rope and we begin to hear the testimony: "I've been keeping watch from what I've had, and now I'm a guard in several houses. But in society these works are perfectly invisible, and must be proclaimed. Many say that we come here to take the work away, but most of the citizens of euscals do what we do, and the care of migrating women remains." This was one of the initiatives organized around March 8, which was organized by the work-makers. They're not performance-free by chance The primary objective of this axis was to make visible all the care work that women carry out on a daily basis, whether paid or not, and to present all women who, beyond their will, were unable to strike that day. Because, let's make it clear, those who are most invisible, those who are so precarious, those to whom discriminatory policies apply, they were unable to strike in most cases, or because they had no one to care for those people who attend the home – where is the right to strike for workers working in private homes?– or because they were subjected to minimal abusive services. As the women who went out on the street on March 8 said very well, this system continues to generate a sexual division in the work, invisibilizing and undervaluing those who have to do with both feminized professions and sustainability and life care: rearing, education, subsistence agriculture, care for dependent people, mutual support networks, emotional support... We've been talking about wages for the past few weeks in the street, in the media, but let's talk about the sticky floor today, the premium, the feminised jobs, the soil that the woman sticks. It's time to take care of all of us in the neighbourhood of care, it's time to take care of the institutions, it's time for men to take care of themselves. Today we've been talking about a concrete sector from the Basque People in the United States to discuss this interpelation with the staff of the house. We had an appearance at the end of February; it has been a month since, and I suppose you will have heard of it already, my lady physician. On the one hand, we were made a diagnosis of the situation they have. I'd like to bring up a number of relevant ideas here. It is evident that the custody of persons in the state of dependence is employed by domestic workmen, and that most of the women in interna are working under illegal conditions. In the eyes of the working people and of the guests, especially in those who have no papers, the rights of rights are given. We're talking about the stremic spectrum. Let's not forget: 21st the servitude of the century is giving birth to the houses of our country. In most cases they do not succeed in a basic salary, and in the ill conditions of labor and security, it is in very bad conditions. What's this government doing in front of all this? The agreements which have been concluded in the case of those who have not or have not been satisfied in this legislature, in the performance of the inhabitants of the Biscay. Let's get started. One, on the 8th of June 2016, is given some specific requests to Osalani. We obtained a large arrangement in response to the Initiation of the Combatsian People of this party: On the one hand, in the statistics of the labor statistics, the workers were asked to do it properly. In the occurrence of the domestic workers of the Biscare, it was evident that this was not accomplished: Two, four accidents are countered for 1,000 workers. If you look at the same sectors, this number is far away. They're under the computer's labor strip, and this is not credible. Bestald, secure one-way beats edititatzea eskatu zitzaion Osalani. Talde honek egindako informazio-eskaera bati esker loretu genuen, ez baitago inon argitaratua, éta Aztertzeko aukera izan genuen. Zer esan! You're a genius, you're a genuine gehiago, you're a genuine gehiago. Adibidez, "Risk of musculoskeletal disorders: by making beds, flexing the knees by stretching the sheets and mattresses and not tilting forward; using mechanical aids when they exist; performing specific training in mobilizing dependent people; by holding or moving a person, separating the feet with an advanced leg to improve balance; placing our body as close as possible to the person to mobilize; keeping the head straight, avoiding flexing or turning the neck." Who gives this formation? Is that what this is for us? Are these statements helpful to us? And there were so many more that they even made us laugh at not crying about everything that was written here. We use the words of the domestic workers: "The guide is a mockery to the workers concerned and to the parliamentary mandate. It has not been published on paper, it has not been disclosed in any way and it is not even hung with the rest of the guides on the Osalan page. In any case, it would not be an appropriate dissemination guide for this sector. But it is not strange that the guide is hidden, for it is neither useful, nor complete, nor ensures any training. To fill out leaflets have a second part in which the labour legislation of home employment is summarized." Two. The Basque Government had until November to make a diagnosis of the situation of female domestic workers in Euskadi. It hasn't been fulfilled, it's been over a year since it was agreed and we're still undiagnosed. Moreover, in a subsequent resolution, Osalan was asked to include the analysis of whether including domestic workers in conciliation aid – of which they are now excluded – would help to improve their situation. I'll answer it myself: yes. At the moment they are the only group discriminated against, and at least we would remove from our system a discriminatory measure against this group of women workers. But, well, go on with the investigation and as long as the workers are still excluded. How long do we have to wait? Three. On three different occasions (in 2010, 2011 and 2014) the Basque Government was asked to activate the Labour Inspectorate in the control of household employment and placement agencies. Gaur egun oraindik ez da honelako kanpainarik egin, ez da inolako ondoriorik atzeman. Etxeko langileek honako eskaerarekin amaitu zuten: "Someone has to ask for explanations, and we ask you. We know that it's new in your department, that it wasn't you who was in the last legislature, but now it's in your hand and you have a lot to do and plenty of opportunities to work." So, what measures will you take to deserve the conditions of work and the rights of domestic workers?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mrs Etxebarrieta, first of all, I would like to make it clear that for the Department of Labour and Justice, and for myself, the situation of domestic workers is a major concern. On the other hand, I say to you that it is a complex matter in which different institutional areas must intervene to achieve what you propose, which is to dignify the working conditions and rights of domestic workers. I will try to analyse the situation taking into account different perspectives such as work, legal and occupational risks. And I will also update this Parliament on the actions we are taking from the department as a whole. I will also refer to the non-legislative proposals that have been passed by this House and the steps we are taking to comply with parliamentary mandates. Indeed, on February 2, 2017, the plenary of this Parliament approved the proposal No. of Law 10/2017, which urged the Government – and I quote textually – "to carry out a diagnosis of the situation of domestic workers in the Basque Autonomous Community, including in the study both domestic workers themselves and employers within nine months". The same non-legislative proposal urged – and I quote again textually – "that from Osalan a study be drawn up that defines as clearly as possible the dimension of the problem, compiles the steps that have been taken to date by the different institutions and sets out the measures to be implemented". We understood that, although the first point urged the Government in general and the third point urged Osalan in particular, the studies could be combined into one, and that is why the Basque Institute for Occupational Safety and Health has been responsible for their elaboration. On this first question I have already had the opportunity to answer you in some other parliamentary initiative. In them I have recognized the complexity of defining and defining the group of domestic workers, given the real opacity that surrounds it. However, since the adoption of the above-mentioned non-law proposal in Osalan, they began to work without trying to quantify what the actual scope of the proposed part of the proposal was. We started the work based on our own human resources, but soon we realized the difficulties, because in Osalan we have data almost exclusively of sinisterity, and we are aware that these are even limited. In order to develop a good study that would enable us to fulfil the parliamentary mandate, we contacted the Department of Sociology and Social Work of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Communication of the University of the Basque Country. When we made the request for a proposal to the university department we wanted to make clear the methodology and scope of the proposal: the methodology should be active, inclusive and participatory, open to the sector through representative groups of domestic workers. The aim is to determine as precisely as possible the size of the problem, to collect data on what has been done by the various institutions and to consider the measures to be taken to contribute to the improvement of the working conditions of domestic workers. The work plan submitted by the Department of Sociology and Social Work to develop the diagnosis, which has been agreed with Osalan, envisages the conduct of field work with interviews with both employers and domestic workers and companies offering such services. There are 50 interviews and 10 contrast groups aimed at the three groups described. If deemed necessary, it is planned to include a project-specific survey process. In addition, the different documentary sources, statistics of the National Statistical Institute and of the Eustat and related studies that have been developed by entities such as Emakunde, Public Employment Service Employment Observatory and other sociological publications will be analysed. All this will, of course, give rise to the reports, diagnosis and measures demanded. The agreement that we have reached with the entity that is going to prepare the study is that, regardless of the final conclusion of the study, at the moment when we can offer them concrete progress, we will do so. Subsequently, on 11 May 2017, you approved a new non-law proposal in which you textually urged the Basque Government, within the study to be carried out by Osalan agreed in the non-law proposal adopted on 2 February 2017, to "value the effects that the suspension of articles 14.3 of Decree 177/2010 of 29 June 2010 and 4.3 of Decree 31/2015 of 17 March, would have on the right of female domestic workers to access benefits in the event of overage or reduction of working hours for care work and to take appropriate measures resulting from the results of such analysis". Mrs Etxebarrieta, I am sure that you are fully aware that the first study requires the intervention of sociologists primarily, and that the one requested in second place, in Parliament's second resolution, needs a study from the point of view of law. In order to satisfy the will of this House to take measures to guarantee the rights of domestic workers, something with which we absolutely agree, we have asked legal experts in this case to carry out the relevant study. Therefore, we are talking about two studies which are complementary, although the conclusions of one and the other really need not be absolutely linked, so when we have data from the latter we will send them to Parliament for analysis and evaluation. To all this I would like to add that one of the difficulties we had in entrusting these studies to external entities was that of not having the corresponding budget line. That is why I have commented to you that we have started our work with our own staff and have realized the difficulties with which we find ourselves. To remedy this situation, an appropriation for this purpose has been approved in Osalan's budget for the financial year 2018. I would also like to refer to another aspect which you mention in the justification of the inquiry and which you pointed out in your speech, such as the guide to safety and health at home. I can assure you that before the appearance of representatives of the Homeworkers' Association before the Committee on Labour and Justice, elements for improving the guide sent to Parliament last November had been identified by the Osalan officials. The agency's management took the decision to draw up a new guide that would improve the contents of the primitive, and at the moment it has been completed and is in the editing and translation phase to the Basque and will soon be forwarded to all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u128	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u129	Well, we agree to mark it as complexity and priority. The long explanation you have made about the Diagnostic, and the questions with which you have been asked, we had learned from the answers that the Sociology of EHU was planning to do this job. We especially regard it as important, that, as you have mentioned, the intervention of domestic workmen should be supported, so that they may not be heard again, for the sake of their voices, and that they should have such an opportunity of making such terrible mistakes. On the sinestrality, in the interpellation it made him see – and the domestic workers, too, as we were told – how the calculation that was being made today did not reflect the reality of the domestic workers; and even knowing well the complexity that this type of data can have, was on the one hand Osakidetza's participation in the detection of accidents occurring in the domestic sphere – and on this we also have much to do, or everything to do, because data are not being given from Osakidetza – and on the other hand there would be the possibility of putting into the annual statistics "We do not know or do not have enough data to give data on industrial accidents occurring in the field of domestic work", because what we are giving is a false image of what the real situation of industrial accidents within the domestic sphere is. Second study from the point of view of justice? Yes, we see it logically, and we can devise it from the other study as well. We and Podemos did not agree with each other with that line of work which was suggested by the rest of the groups, that is to say, by making a wide diagnosis around the house-workers, we could not see at all because it has nothing to do with it, and you yourself have acknowledged it. It is therefore proper to debinate from this study, but it is necessary to carry it as quickly as possible, for what remains this year? That workers in the 2018 cash departments of culture weren't watched. They won't get to this right for another year. Eta gigaren inguruan poztekoa da zuek ohartu izana hanka-sartze horren inguruan, Osalanek ikussi izana that there are elements of improvement in this guide, many elements of improvement and that a new guide seems to us, well, at least adequate, and in this case we also ask you that the domestic workers and the expert people can participate in this guide, because precisely that was one of the problems when it came to ending what we have here. With the permission of the inhabitants of the Biscay, I will give you the guide which they gave to all the members of the legislature, which was carefully cultivated, and which we were all glad to have taken time to do such a work. But I'd like to finish it by insisting on an idea they finished. They are ready to be shared, they are ready to give their opinion, and they are ready to offer it at this time; but that they may not, at the last moment, take notice of their word, lest at the last, they should not be allowed to say that their domestic workmen had participated in it, but that they should continue with the same measure and order, and that they may certainly be the way to break everything we have in order to secure the rights they deserve. Thank you. [[He gave the Chief of Work and Justice some papers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u131	Mrs. Etxebarrieta. I believe I have made clear the interest of the Department of Labour and Justice in fulfilling parliamentary mandates and bringing what is in our hands to make visible a situation that – I share – has many aspects to clarify and bring to light. Be sure that, along with the required studies, we will incorporate measures that contribute to the objective that we all aim to achieve. He will agree that we are dealing with a complex matter, we have already repeated it, but it is complex from the legal point of view and that it should have been resolved for a long time. That is why I am in favour of taking the time necessary to present comprehensive and realistic work. Both you and I are aware that some of the questions raised can be answered in the context of the Basque Autonomous Community, but we also know that others have to be reached at a higher level. I am referring to the ratification of Convention 189 of the International Labour Organization, or Recommendation 201 of the same institution, as your honors made clear in that no-law proposal of February 2, 2017. And going back to the work that we will soon bring you, that new guide to the prevention of occupational risks in the service of the family home, I would like to comment on some of the most relevant aspects that have been modified or expanded with respect to the previous one. First, the concept of the family home service, as set out in Royal Decree 1620/2011, regulating the special employment relationship of the family home service, as well as other social security rules, has been more clearly defined; a section on contractual conditions has been included, with the sole aim of focusing more precisely on the issue, although not the main object of the guide, which is focused on the prevention of occupational risks. New chips have been modified and incorporated, such as risks related to blows or traps, lighting or temperature, or biological agents. All preventive recommendations have been revised, seeking to cover with them all possible measures that could facilitate the elimination or mitigation of the different risks. Two annexes have been incorporated into the guide: a compendium of chemical pictograms that can be found in the various products used in the performance of household work; and, on the other hand, recommendations related to manual handling of loads. Finally, to facilitate a better understanding of the terms used in the guide, it has been decided to include an introductory glossary. In conclusion, Mrs Etxebarrieta, we are faced with a complex problem – I repeat – which needs the intervention of different institutional and social actors, within our own government, but also from other bodies. The fundamental thing is that we act with the will to overcome the current situation, listen to the collective, study and implement the appropriate measures. The Department of Labour and Justice does not have all the competencies that can make the goal possible, but you have no doubt, or the household workers' collective, that you will have our full cooperation. Finally, I would like to stress that since we are a very feminized group, we have special attention, committed as we are to giving visibility and solution to the labour problems that concern women: wage gap, job insecurity, recruitment fraud and others. As you well know, we are acting with the tools we have to overcome all these unwanted situations. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u132	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Chief of Work and Justice, about the policy of the Tubos Reunidos, about the state of Work and Justice." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u133	Eguerdi on, Mrs. San José. Welcome to the workers of Tubular Products, who wish you had not to be here, but, of course, we are glad that you are here defending your jobs with that determination that you are demonstrating, a determination that I believe will be demanded of this Government and also, in particular, its department, Mrs San José. We have recently learned that the company Productos Tubulares intends to carry out a process of restructuring triple collective redundancy, substantial modification of working conditions and non-application of collective agreement, with which it intends to eliminate jobs and worsen working conditions. For some time now, the unions of Reunited Tubes, with plants in Amurrio and Trapaga, have been denouncing the destruction of employment in productive plants, both of potential persons and subcontractors, as well as the management's intentions to undertake some kind of job restructuring. The group's labour policy has been systematically denounced by the unions in recent years, something that we understand you know or should know, and there is a risk that the restructuring measures that arise will also extend to Amurrio. We are talking about more than 1,500 workers, plus all indirect and induced employment at risk. Labour Inspectorate and its department should, in our view, play a role in defending workers' rights, but the truth is that at the moment we do not know what role you are playing. Last January, we asked you a question for your written reply on the follow-up you have made to this question and you have not answered anything to the extent that the Bureau has accepted an application for amparo so that you can answer us. That is why today we must insist and ask you in a generic but direct way whether you, as we have asked you from our group in other conflicts, are going to stand on the side of the workers and are going to have a strongly active attitude in defending workers' rights.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u134	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u135	Your Honor, you refer to the option that the Tubes Group has taken through a labour restructuring process and you have described precisely what it may consist of. I must point out that, to date, no communication has been submitted to any body under the Department of Labour and Justice in this regard, and therefore, for administrative purposes, there have been no facts which would allow for the commencement of the exercise of the powers of the department I direct. Notwithstanding the above, we are aware of the situation facing the company and of the public complaints of the workers, so we share our concern about the future of the Gathered Tubes group and for Tubular Products. The adoption of measures to regulate employment by undertakings, whether of shorter working hours, of temporary suspension of the contract or of termination of employment relations, require the follow-up of a certain procedure in which the labour authority intervenes. The labour authority is the guarantor of compliance with all legally and legally established requirements, as well as of the substantial modification of working conditions and the non-application of the collective agreement. If I bring back the existing labour legislation, it is to remind me, as I have done on other occasions, that the labour reform carried out by the People's Party Government has eliminated and stoned a large part of the competences that until then corresponded to the labour authority in matters as important as whether the employment regulation dossiers are suspended or extinguished. Employment reform needs to be repealed, because it breaks the necessary balance that must exist in the regulation of labour relations. There is a clear imbalance in collective bargaining that affects EREs, changing working conditions and many more. Do not interpret, Mr Hernández, that this Government will not act in the face of what the Group of the Unified Tubes can present to us; I assure you that we will not abandon the competences we have in these matters from the Department of Labour and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u136	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u137	I don't understand, Mrs. San José. Precisely, I ask you to do that. It is not enough to follow up, which is what you have told us; there are enough elements at this time on the table for your department to act, and act routinely, enough elements. Workers'rights are being violated, workers'rights are being violated. The right to information is being violated, the right to negotiation is being violated. It's the company's obligations. The company has put on the table that intends to do a restructuring process and has left the workers standing at the door of a hotel the day they were going to start talking. That is a violation of the right to information and the right to negotiate, and therefore your department can already act. Strike rights are being violated with minimally abusive services, as the workers themselves have denounced, in companies that do not take care of elements necessary for the community; therefore, there are sufficient elements for you to act. And, moreover, the law obliges the parties to negotiate in good faith, and it is more than obvious that the managers of this company are not acting in good faith; and, therefore, you can already act before that. To that extent the company is not acting in good faith that it is acting with a chulesque attitude that can be persecuted by you perfectly according to the law. A company president cannot be allowed to go out and face the workers, as we have all seen in the images, who were simply demonstrating in defense of their jobs. In the case of a person who occupies such a responsibility, with subordinates, that is a very, very serious violation of labor rights and to which you can act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u138	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u139	Mr Hernández, I am going to tell you what the Department of Labour and Justice is going to do, and you are going to do what it always does: to work rigorously, to study thoroughly each of the issues before us and to make themselves available to the parties to urge agreement between the management and the workers' representatives, and that it be these agreements that minimize the consequences of the situation that has been presented. We will enforce the procedures in force and demand that the defects detected be remedied. We will ensure that there is good faith in the negotiations. We will apply the study of legality to the conventions that affect them. We will enforce the agreements adopted during the consultation period, if it is estimated that they have been reached through fraud, fraud, coercion, abuse of law, for the purposes of their possible declaration of nullity. And we will perform assistance actions at the request of either party or on our own initiative. Our goal is to find solutions to problems. The Labour Inspectorate will carry out its task in each and every aspect of its work. And I insist, we will act by applying all our competences and with the same wishes as you that the problems faced by the workers of the Group of the Reunited Tubes be resolved for good, and that it be, of course, the agreement that prevails in all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u140	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question of the minor services which had been established on the strike for the 8th of March. " Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. The Feminist movement of the Basque Country for the international day of women made a strike call to imagine that in many sectors without a woman this system is stopped. After this strike, I'm sure you fixed the minimum services, as you always do, but in this case, you've hardened the minimum services you've promised in the past few hours of work, and you've made the minimum of extra service. Seeing this, several unions introduced the appeal by demanding that the order should be cancelled, proposed that the minimum services should be exaggerated, and that the right of the working-men was violated. In part, the Chief Justice of the Esquimenia of the Esquimenia of the Eremique had been partially approved by the Senate to appeal to the unions, which made him mad to reduce some of the least services, which on the 7th of March had to be issued a new order to correct the former. For this reason we ask you the right question: What was the purpose of these minor services established at the beginning of a public administration on the strike on March 8, which is called the Feminist movement in the Basque Country?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u142	Thank you, Madam Mount. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u143	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Otamendi, first of all, I welcome the success of the mobilisations on 8 March in all countries in general and in Euskadi in particular. The strike must be called to be legal by the legitimate representatives of the workers (unions, trade unions, staff delegates, company committees) or by the workers themselves. Echoing the mobilization initiated by the Feminist Movement, the main unions presented different calls or strikes of 24 hours, four hours and two hours. In view of this reality, it was decided to publish a single order for the determination of essential services, in order to facilitate the organization of work in those companies and entities engaged in the provision of services that are considered essential, facilitating those who wish to participate in the strike their choice between the different modalities. The order of 27 February 2018, signed by me, guaranteed the maintenance of essential services during the general strike called for last 8 March, and was published in the newsletter of 6 March. Article 28.2 of the Constitution recognizes the right of women workers to strike for the defence of their interests as one of the fundamental rights, granting equal protection to the most relevant rights, such as life, physical integrity and health, among others. Therefore, in order to avoid collisions, it is essential to dictate appropriate measures to ensure the maintenance of essential services to the community, so that none of the fundamental rights in conflict remains empty. The essential sectors in which we set up minimum services were health, emergencies, safety, education, transport, energy, telecommunications, EITB and that of public administrations. Under no circumstances – and I want to highlight this – has the essentiality of these services been questioned by any organization. However, in the light of the foregoing premise, it is clear that the constitutionality of any measure restricting fundamental rights must be determined by strict observance of the principle of proportionality, and I believe that this was also in line with the order referred to. It is also true that the lack of regulation of the right to strike causes it to be built with judgments that are creating jurisprudence. The appeal to which you refer, Mrs Otamendi, was lodged by one of the trade union centres calling, not by all, and questioning exclusively the following services: health care, primary care and the call centre. In the interim measures, the court partially assessed the claims of the claim and issued an order for interim measures amending the minimum services in the area of senior residences, accounting for 50 % of them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u144	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u145	If there's anything you can say to nothing about it, at least. You did not answer the question I asked you: I asked you what these minor services were intended, but we at last, at least, have a very clear opinion, of the vast extent of which was the sole purpose of fixing all these superfluous services: the right to their strike was violated. The caremakings were tried in the centre, in different mutations of March 8, without forgetting consumption, employment, and educational fields, of course. But he wanted to focus on the veins, because it is the indispensable work on women's shoulders, and unfortunately because it is the work which is offered under the worst conditions. And it is not by chance that the highest minimum service is to establish for sectors that are more feminised and precocious, such as the service of elderly men's hotels or high-ends. Workers of these Sectors, workers, women, were looking for no strike. Loud and clear. At the time of the establishment of minimal services you give a most important amount to the care of the guard, to show that they are indispensable and unperceivable. And, indeed, it is quite true, that they are necessary work, whether they are necessary, or whether they are to be done, and are not to be left for the next day. But what a contradiction! As services so important, Servicios esenciales. The policy of equality must be established in practice every day, and not in the return of March 8 by limiting it to the ponificial expressions. It is a terrible difference between beautiful words and actions that one must fall into real practice from changes. On March 8 you plainly declared that you lack a genuine political will to change the position of women. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u146	Thank you, Madam Mount. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u147	Mrs Otamendi, believe me when I tell you that what moves us when issuing a strike order is the defence of the right to strike itself. And I believe that the balance sheet that I have presented to you is sufficient for you and the other Members of Parliament to understand that at all times we have been proportional in the establishment of essential services. And I end up with an anecdote. I had the opportunity to attend the Bilbao demonstration, and the people around me commented on the difficulties I had had in getting to the Sacred Heart by public transport. And what would have happened, Mrs Otamendi, if we had increased the minimum metro services at those times? Well, that they would have resorted to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-23.u148	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twelve.
