ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Cultural, Euscara, and the Bill of Sports Board, made on the bill of changing the law against Doping. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to favor the criteria? Then we go to the teams: I'm representing the American Basque Group, Mr. Barrio. [[Berber]] That's for the vote. The first question is to defend itself. After. [[Berber]] But I don't know what the discussion was or what you agreed to. Little to big? Well, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours. [[Berber]] Please, spokesman, the spokesman, Ubera, Rebeka, will you please come with the spokesman? [[Silent]] Well, we'll start again. We'll start with the team with the corrections. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Rebeka Ubera, is yours to defend the correction of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u1	Good morning, Mrs. President. The president, the congressman, all good days. Well, what we're talking about today is just to adapt the change of Doping's law to the new code in the world. And this is the change of law we've made. It's a law project that I've just sent to you about, and there's no relevant change during the performance. Some arrangement has been made, some shades have been added, for it is obvious that the Government had already decided to confine itself to these changes. It is permitted, but our party has been deprived of the opportunity to struggle against doping, prevention, education, and instruction. And besides sportsmen, everyone around sportsmen from an integrated view. We know that he gets the laws, but we thought that from this integrating point of view we must include the assistant, the manager, and the others. In most cases the lack of education, because of lack of information, and the sportsmen become the puppets of the neighbors and managers. Once They After the pursuit of sports, in a vulnerable situation, often because of medical affairs, they are very much affected and abandoned by very pernicious consequences. They're never treated like people at last. We wanted to take a step in this change of law, but we didn't have a chance to do that. As I have said, education to extend to all degrees of formation. Even if the athletes who are punished are actively part of different programs, even if they're able to review the punishment. But the government has not seen the study of prevention in this business of education; it has not been appreciated. It is true that when we received this report, we accepted a correction on the last committee, and thanked the reader, but we did not know it from the esthetic point of view, we agreed to say this, because we did not see that it was really intended to reach depth and the subject, or to say, "see, we also accept the corrections we have received from you." And it is true that we have agreed to some things, but our party has been ready to penetrate into that line, and to rectify others (about punishment), because we think this matter ought not to be grounded on punishment, but rather upon prevention, and yet, though not attainable, we have retired some corrections. Because we tried to protect the athlete. As I have said, and I mean to remark, that the auxiliaries, doctors, who are surrounded by sportsmen, often become puppets in the hands of robbers. Not always, because they're responsible too, and responsibility, but the whole area needs to be considered. And often, even if the sportsmen end their course, these managers, these doctors, all around them, remain there, and other sportsmen pass through their hands, and repeat the same courses that they have hitherto repeated, all the wrong practice. So what do we fix? And we think that's what we have to solve, because there are so many interests behind it, very different interests. In our opinion, it is necessary, in the opinion of EHG, that good examples should be made known and opened by good practices. It's a pattern to give. Society is to give clear messages about doping, and the messages which often tend to society are not clear. They're not clear, for, for instance, there are some sportsmen who have been punished for doping, and then we see them on sports grounds, journalisms, and so on... So what's the message of young athletes? "If you do, watch out! Then your career ends? "Or, "Don't worry, it's all right, because that's what you're going to do for a while, but will you be able to continue with other cares? "And this last message, unfortunately, is getting stronger in sport. So we want to ask a question for reflection. What really seeks is from institutions? A face cleaning? "We accept the law, we have it... And we say, "Yes, we fight doping." Do you really want to get it? Now we think that there is some superficial work to be done in this case, and it seems to us that at the time of this change of law the little shades which have been introduced and the repairs which have been introduced have been made. For we have several corrections, which we have maintained, whether sports or others which were once caught with doping, that they are correct effects, both in mecene or in other cases, in their professional careers, and all these consequences have not been willing to be consumed. So, what does it have to do with it? What's the practical consequence? Yeah? It is true that some repairs have been introduced, especially from the standpoint of equality. We have insisted on the language difference view, entering the genus difference view; some corrections have been accepted, and the text has improved. But we are concerned that such texts come to this legislation without any integrating glasses. We know that reports are made, but then you start studying the texts and where do the views of equality remain? Language, genre? He went on: It is also evident that this law has been in the list of businesses with EAJ PP. It's allowed, it's democratic, isn't it? This is the game of the majority and minority, and we won't criticize it, and I'm grateful to have the lights and to say as soon as we get into the school, "This law is agreed." That's nice of you. In this sense, then, all these observations from Madrid have been taken aside, and it is also received from him that the content agreed on in this searching commission remains in this law. So the Esscal armored agency has stopped, but at the same time our hands and hands have closed the doors to strengthen and penetrate our auto-gours. So it's been a pity that we haven't worked this subject in a deeper way. We are left with a bitter sensation of perception, but, well, the majority of the legislature promise, and it is clear that the Government has been willing to make an empty tramitarian with this law, to fit it to the new code of the world, and to point out the point. And that's why we've kept our contributions, our corrections to vote at the entire meeting today. Let's hope we've got a surprise this evening, just as we had at the front committee, and the rest of our amendments are accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Now, I'm representing the Basque Potula Group. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u3	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, shortly, since we are before an eminently technical bill. Five years ago the World Anti-Doping Code was updated and sooner or later this text had to be brought to Parliament. He did it at the end of the last legislature. Logically, we could not pass this bill and what is a technical issue, which is to the adequacy, the harmonization of our legislation to the World Anti-Doping Conference, which resulted in a new World Anti-Doping Code. In that regard, what is being done is to bring our legislation into line with international law. We are going to vote against the amendments by EH Bildu. Indeed, we have tabled 19 partial amendments. We did a negotiation. Most of the amendments were taken up in the text. We did constructive work in relation to the text itself, of clarification, of concreteness, some of legislative technique strictly. But the fundamental principles were, not in the text of the Basque Government, yes, but in the international adequacy at all levels, state levels, autonomous levels, in this case, of that need. I mean, I say again that that is the relevant thing, and that it should have already been approved, but, well, we're on it and we're doing it now. Of course, also, for that very reason and for those reasons, for that technical question and technical quality of this bill, we also opposed the amendment of the whole that was presented by Elkarrekin Podemos in relation to this bill. International Anti-Doping Code: harmonization, adequacy. What is the aim of this in relation to the control and neutralisation of doping practices? Greater legal certainty, essentially. This is achieved by questions that have to do with the criminalization of doping offences; new criminal conduct is added; the possibility of biological samples being analyzed by certain laboratories is included, with the approval of the World Anti-Doping Agency; sanctions are modified by substantially increasing suspension periods; the new global code also establishes a 10-year limitation period... That is to say, issues that mainly affect control, the neutralisation of doping practices. Seeing that in this sporting world the issues affecting doping are moving very fast, we also need legislation and regulations that are permanently in line with the neutralisation of doping in sport. And that's what we've been trying to do. That is why it has been relatively easy to seek a constructive spirit or agreement with the groups that support the Government, because it is a fundamentally technical issue, which we logically share, as the State and international sports administration has done. And we understand that the amendments of EH BIldu, fundamentally, were not acceptable because they distorted in some way the criteria and the meaning of the approach required by that World Anti-Doping Code for this issue. They unnecessarily broadened some issues or diverted unnecessary attention to the issues. And, of course, that mention made by Mrs Ubera in the area of competition makes no sense at all, because it is precisely this criterion and all this approval and all this adaptation and adaptation to criteria absolutely of consensus and necessity, so there is no problem, of course, Mrs Ubera, with regard to competition issues. You've wanted to bring up issues that have to do with doping control, deal with issues of self-government and competition... Well, that doesn't make any sense and, of course, if you have to express your reservations, it's better to focus on other issues, but what I think is that the right ones are the ones who adapt the legislation – a new legislation too, a 2012 law – to the approach that international organizations on doping make. So, in that sense, an eminently technical question. We will vote against Bildu's amendments and in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u4	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Yes, we are talking again about the anti-doping bill in sport and I am going to reproduce – so I am not going to extend myself – the position that the Socialist Group has held since the introduction of the bill in its day – and now again in this legislature – at the stage of presentation amendments, in the opinion in the committee and now. We believe that this law was timely and necessary, and it was late, but it was coming. And we truly believe that the adaptation to the 2015 World Anti-Doping Code, which is fundamentally aimed at the proposed amendment of the law – apart from introducing the creation of the Basque Anti-Doping Agency, which strengthens, if any, the objective and will of the priority purpose of the law, which is the fight against this practice of doping in sport – as it further ratifies us. I believe that Euskadi has long been adjusting and exercising his powers in this area since the beginning. First, with amendments to the Basque Sports Law – which was where it was included – and then with its own Anti-Doping Law. It is also urgent, I insist, and I again take advantage of the rostrum to say so, the amendment of this Basque Sports Act. It's almost as urgent as this one. Why? Because the competences are to be exercised, and I believe, Mrs Ubera, that in this case these powers have also been sought to promote the common interest and the common objective of the rule, which is to combat doping in sport. Finally, I am not going to talk about what doping for sport means, we have commented on it in many in the debate on this law. I will focus on the amendments. With the creation of the World Anti-Doping Agency and change, the milestone of that conference in 1999 at which it was decided to establish common standards, a joint action for all states and organizations, for all public and private institutions, we believe that the way to operate against this practice, which does not work in a territory, but works globally, must be shared and joint. Therefore, we believe that the adaptation and staying within the framework of sanctions, infringements and sanctions established by the World Anti-Doping Code and those amendments of 2015 is what guarantees effectiveness, efficiency in the whole field in which these practices occur, which, I insist, are not limited to the territory of our country, but have a much more international projection, because simply the criminal networks, which are the ones that benefit most from doping, and the organizations, which supply all these products, do not function in a single territory, but at a global level, just as sport itself and sports activities do. That is why we are in favour of the opinion as it is from the committee and for the reasons I have put forward. I insist, and I say it again: I do not believe that in this bill there are more things that differentiate us from those that unite us. Conversely, many things happen to Basques and Basques, but in this, especially, I don't think there are differences in the opportunity to bring the law, I don't think there are differences in need, and the differences in content, which may actually be, are virtually invisible. It is true that some has been maintained regarding the global or fundamental core of the law, which is the regime of violations and sanctions, but, I insist, I believe they are practically invisible, because I believe that the will and content are shared by all the political forces of the House. I also have to admit that it is better that the one who entered, among other things, by the agreements reached with parliamentarian Barrio, by the People's Group, and also by the contributions on two fundamental issues for the Socialist Group which have been accepted by amendment and which have been thanks to the contribution of Mrs Ubera and the EH Bildu Group. On two issues that seem to me to be a priority. The gender perspective: with the acceptance of many of the amendments of the EH Bildu group, the improvement, vision and guarantee of the gender perspective that the whole law reported has been expanded. And the same has happened with respect for and guarantee of linguistic rights. It was, but it's been reinforced too. Therefore, on these two issues I do believe that the text is better than how it entered. That's why I say that content is for consensus, that I would like that being invisible the differences in content – practically not visible – I could come out unanimously in this House, because I believe that it is in the background that we share. And if it wasn't, at least for the message we can give, I wouldn't have any votes against. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. You're saying Podemos shouldn't have a word together? Eubertarians? "Sí o explicición de voto?" Eubertarians. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, good morning to all. Well, today's the day that we're giving the law project once and for all to change the opposite of the Doping Act in Sports. We have had several instances and disputes about this, because there is no new subject in the legislature; We began this change in our previous legislation, and in this law we ended up with the different occurrences we had during our previous law, and in this we had together three or four different occurrences, which we had requested by the Podemos. And we all heard that this change was necessary. Everyone thinks we have to make this change and we have to face this adaptation. After all, the end of this change is clear: to bring in our laws the changes which have been in the international activity against doping. And, Mrs. Ubera, you yourself said that this was the main goal from the beginning to fit in the changes made in this world code which have been made by the everybody Internationale, and then you go out into the speech saying that we've been doing some repairs or something. we want to make a change of face. You said it yourself. That's not it. All we want is to make a adjustment to the new world code. As you know, in 2012, here in the legislature, the Euscal Act of Doping was accepted, and since 2013, they have been internationalizations. In 2015, a text is accepted, which is the code of the world, and is adapted to it. That's all. You know, it's not like I brought this in to wash my face, especially for repairs. We have to make changes, we have to remain internationalized. And I'll tell you more: In 2021, too, there are more changes to be expected, and in them we hope to include these changes in the legislature, because with that code of the world which we want to lead, we want to give internationally a first-class response to our legislation. We want to be different. And today I think we're being realistic. We're almost 300 controls, and we're refractory, but we still have to adapt our law to that. And I should like to be able to explain a little, to instruct you, to instruct you, to instruct you, to instruct the law; but change, what change does it make? And yes, I'd like to mention them. First of all, he recognizes the Euscal Agency of Doping as a special service responsible for the development of public Basque Administration in this field. He will also bring a rebuke: four years old. The suspension established for a very serious breach of rule will rise four years after two; and the punishment imposed on it for a particular substances will be doubled. In addition to this, the new law will extend for ten years the dues of precepts within three years. As the third major change, it will bring two new violations of rule into articulates. In the first place, to help you commit a breach of rule, and any conspiracy, or concealment, or any other kind of complicity, will be punished. And on the other hand, co-operate with a person punished for having any conduct connected with doping will also be punished. And all that will be a list of those assistants and those lists that will be handed to the sportsmen, not puppets. That's what sportsmen will have and they'll know. As the fourth chief innovation, he will control all the persons who participate in sports contests or activities, and not, as before, only the licensed ones. The control level will be much bigger and will be reached at a far larger range. And finally, he foresees a new opportunity, and he's the biological sample if they don't have an acre of the World Agency against Doping, even if they're allowed to do the controls on those biological samples. So, as you can see, changes are perfectly technical. We want to have equal criteria in the fight against Doping and we want to respond to the world code as well as internationally. And that's what we have to do because that's what we need to do. And as soon as the change came, as he saw that we were confined to a political and really adaptation, we thought this Chamber would be a law that would be unanimously accepted, and we were convinced, but it wasn't possible. And how is it possible with discourses which we hear to-day, if we make reference to the law itself all the time? We must confine ourselves to change, and speak of this change as good or bad; for we also desire to be in consciousness, that there must be in society a consciousness and a form, but in this change we come to speak of punishment, and to conform to the penalties determined by this code of the world. And we need to hear that with Popular Party we get into business. I do not believe that we have entered business, but that we must negotiate with all groups in a law which we wish to accept by unanimous consent, and that from the very beginning we have spoken to you, we have spoken to the popular, and have agreed to rectification. And we wanted you to do the same. Even if you had come before, we would have wanted to discuss with you. Don't you doubt it! And so we did, and so we tried, but it wasn't possible. And we've inserted your corrections, but what's to become of you? On the contrary. We put your corrections in the text, and yet you're against the text; you're against the text that hasn't been corrected, because you're about to enter the corrections at its own time. And then you took those who stayed in that block. If you weren't against it, why didn't you bring in the corrections? And then against the storm. I thought we had a date with you, she said, so we added what you suggested, and if you're against it, too? I think your will has been very clear from the beginning, and then consider that we have an excuse for the non si socio prefecte, que si negocianes. And the Podemus, who was actually the first time on board, has been sorry that we did not want to put that and that we have been sorry that we had not yet entered into a partial correction, because at last we could not discuss your point of view, and at last that you were empty-handed in the whole affair. And we'd like to have a discussion with you, too. And, well, just fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. To respond, representative of the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u9	I think I've been very pedagogical all over the process, with you in meetings, in power, and even today at the front board. I've said everything I said at the board today, so I can say it louder, but I can't make it any clearer. And it seems to me that to him who wishes to understand, he wants to know the truth; if he does not wish to understand it, every one will see it, but do not blame the others. It is allowed, it is a democratic game; every one chooses what is his primary partner or what his associates are, and whether they are to us or not, it is not important, but not to use it to blame others and to tell others that they don't want him to agree. No. Each chooses, and must be consistent with what he chooses, and summarize the consequences. But then don't use other arguments and other excuses that they don't want to be charged with. Let's be honest and be honest. I said, thank you, just after I got into the first school: "It's agreed." Oh, all right, all right. Then why do we have to do the power? And, excuse me, one more thing: The government is you. We're not government. If the government wants to make a law, the government will have to move. The government has to move, not us. And yet we moved. First time we moved. I've told you since the first time. Since the first time. So talk honestly to me. That's all I'm asking. Everything is clear. Then you mention "the author" and the "referent." What do you mean, a pioneer and a refreciative? What kind of pioneers and refractory government? Doing what? This is an international adaptation, as you have well said, an international adaptation, an international adaptation, Mr. Barrieta, we've put the corrections we've introduced into that frame, which we've tried to penetrate into, but we've tried to make a pioneer and referative, and open up a line in preventive and education, for a pioneer and referative, beyond that frame, but it doesn't want to be. It didn't mean to. We have put into the hands of the government this law is to develop governments, not opposites, from which we cannot develop laws, well, pull them together. We could do it, we put the tools on it. Tools. In the last borrowing, in the final correction, a proposition to develop this law you have. Admit it, allow it to be pioneers and refractory. And in this international frame, which is the basis of prevention and education, we have tried to make proposals, not only punishment. Not punishment. Where are we going with the penalty? What's the message we give them? What's going on with doping? And it's not just the problem of this government. What is the matter with doping in the world of sport, in the world of non-profits and professionals; everywhere? And it seems to us that there is a complex substance in it, and that often there is hypocrisy. Appearances. Then we'll have to figure out where to go. And it seems to us that it might be interesting to penetrate into prevention and education, simply accepting everything else. All the rest accepted, but that too, and with it merely consistently. And we know that we're in a international technical adaptation, that they'll come back, because these issues go before the laws, they go ahead. We know what's going on in doping. Then changes will be continuous and will follow, but we think another enfoke would have been interesting to put another chip. And then we were told it had nothing to do with it. What do you mean, no, Mr. Barrio? Again, I repeat to you the same as I told you on the committee: this law is the same law which was made in the former legislation, and has not had any alteration in it. In the previous legislation, the transfers from Madrid came to us, the notifications: "Watch out, you break competition with this and this! "I don't know. The law came here this time and there wasn't a word from Madrid. Why? He says why, because it's in the search. It's in the cell. Then don't tell me this has nothing to do with manual hands and self-portraits. Everything has to do with it, even this one, even though it's an international adaptation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Popular. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u11	With your permission from the seat. The truth is that it seems to Mrs Ubera that she is annoyed that an issue which was somewhat conflicting in the last parliamentary term has now been settled through the normal arrangements made by the administrations and that she comes here with a high degree of consensus between what was the central administration, what was the Basque administration and, in this sense, making up the modification that the international anti-doping organizations establish. It's amazing that the criticism is because it's been agreed, that's impressive! The competition wedge or the self-government wedge had to be inserted, even if it was contrary to common sense. The truth is that he has already shown it to us in the committee, but, in any case, I say again: it is a law that we have to pass now, because the Basque Anti-Doping Agency has to be launched, the elements are waiting for this regulation to be there and, of course, they already have it as a reference, but the issue is that we approve it now and for the highest degree of consensus that we can, but, indeed, I believe that the reflection of Podemos and EH Bildu has to come in a positive sense and not in that lock, of course, incomprehensible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u12	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u13	Thank you, Madam President, if you'll allow me from the seat. Only, I repeat again that the message cannot be the one that is coming out. I believe that the fact that this Parliament finally approves the amendment of the Anti-Doping Act according to international standards and according to how the majority of institutions are functioning, with their powers, and private and public organisations, is a positive message. Joint and shared action based on the same parameters for us guarantees efficiency and efficiency, and that is good news for sports practice and for the fight against doping, and it was the only message I wanted to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians. Madam, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u15	, ladies: Yes, Mr. President, from my seat too, if you please. In fact, we talked to the Popular team, we agreed, but from the beginning we said we didn't close the doors and I said so today. I think this law was a law which could be unanimously admitted, and therefore we are gathered together with you, and I believe that we have followed you, to speak and to make a treaty, and we have inserted the corrections in our text, but yet do you go to the committee and contradict this text? Who has the will? Or what happened there? Where has the will been? And then you've been smart. I think that if you start a speech, tell me what change is, a change that comes to make a adjustment, and then tell the whole speech that we've come to make some repairs, and that we're going to make a face-cleaning, it doesn't leave all that clearly. I've already said that we wanted to be a law that we wanted to be, because we really thought it was a subject that had no political significance and that it could be done. It's a pity it's not like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. We've ended our discussion... Yeah, you don't... They told me, they told me, they told me apart. No? The explanation of technical corrections on one side and the other on the other, yes. The lawyer told me. All right, then, we'll go to the vote. First, we shall vote for the corrections which EH Collect has maintained: 22, 24, 26, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 43, 42, 44, and 49. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 43; the whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u17	So they didn't accept it. Next, they vote together with the articles of the judgment which they have been correcting. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the partisans of 43; the contrary, 18; the whites, 0; the abstainments, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u18	So they're accepted. The rest of the articles of judgment, the additional regulations, the first and second transient regulations, and the last regulation, are put together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the partisans of 43; the contrary, 18; the whites, 0; the abstainments, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u19	So it's accepted. We'll vote for the explanation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the partisans of 43; the contrary, 18; the whites, 0; the abstainments, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u20	So it's accepted. And finally, the name of the law, considering the technical correction of the title. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of the country are 43; the contrary is 0; the white is 0; the abstainments are 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u21	So the 12/2012 law against Doping in Sports has been approved to change the law on the 21st of June. Next, vote. Together, Mrs. Garcia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u22	Mila esker, mahaiburu anderea. Good morning to all the women parliamentarians. As we have already seen, the amendment of the law has been adopted and we have tabled a full amendment since the beginning, because we have expressed throughout this process, from our interventions in the various appearances and in the debate, that we wanted to emphasize, and we have done, the importance of this document and what was necessary for us to revise the Anti-Doping Act. And in this way we highly appreciate the adaptation and updating of this initiative to the international framework and the World Anti-Doping Code. While the text that has been adopted envisages improvements and makes proposals called for by some players in the sector for a long time, in the opinion of our group it leaves key points undeveloped and not fully and completely adapted to the real needs of the fight against doping in sport, in all its fields. That is why, as I have already said, we have tabled an amendment in its entirety, and that is why we abstained today from a final text which seems to us insufficient. For Elkarrekin This project suffers from some shortcomings, which we have already listed on other occasions, and which had to include, among other things, the development by law of the biological passport or the sports card, because, from our point of view, it is an innovative strategy in the fight against doping that should be integrated. We also felt that it was essential to create and disseminate clear anti-doping programmes, the content of which sought to raise public awareness at all levels and that activities should be carried out in this area, including information, training, dissemination and awareness-raising programmes, as well as prevention of health and doping. In addition, we already wanted to make an impact that one of the most significant shortcomings we have encountered in this project is the absence of references in a clear and defined section to animal doping. This type of doping is also deplorable and should be pursued and contemplated in this law. We have already commented on this other times, it is evidence and a reality that there are competitions in Euskadi in which animal doping exists and we should from the institutions combat this situation. From our point of view, there is another measure that should have been included in the document, which has to do with a public and searchable anti-doping record, respecting of course data protection. In addition, we believe that any subsidy or aid should be denied to any sports or sports entity that has been sanctioned for imposing anti-doping regulations or that refuses to submit to the corresponding controls. For Elkarrekin We should also claim any public aid received. The text that has been adopted, as other speakers have already commented, talks about the change in infringements and we believe that it would be necessary to introduce changes in the economic sanctions for athletes, clubs and sports entities, making them even harder and increasing them considerably, because for us one of the fundamental objectives of the fight against doping is to ensure a future generation of athletes that is healthy, happy and that competes on equal terms. In short, from Elkarrekin We can appreciate that the Government's policy proposal and the one that has been adopted is insufficient and does not reflect all the realities and needs of the sector. We must be innovative and forceful in the fight against doping, and that is why we abstained today. If we want sport and physical activity to be part of the daily life of all people living in Euskadi, and in these times of doped OPE and corrupt parties doping up to win elections, we cannot promote traps and we must encourage an exercise of inclusive, inclusive and ethical physical activity with ourselves and with animals, and above all to train the younger people of our society, because we understand that equal conditions are fundamental in the formation and development of the different competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Second point on the subject list: "Mortion, introduced by Guanche Suáz together by the members of the Podemos, introduced in order to find employment for the unemployed persons, to keep them in society, and to secure the incomes of money by the intervention of fingerprints. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u24	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good day to all. Together, the Podemos team is trying to guarantee the basic rights of all the citizens and we've introduced a new initiative on that road. Today, to protect personal data, we will defend the fundamental right of motive. Two weeks ago, as a result of interpelation, we had the opportunity to listen to the head physician of the United States and Society, and we confirmed that this right is in danger. That's why we're here today. Eusko Jaurlaritzari Europako erregelamendua bete dezala eskatzen diogo. Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, says in Article 35 on the assessment of the impact on data protection: "Where it is likely that a type of processing, in particular if it uses new technologies, by their nature, scope, context or purpose, would pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller shall, before the end of the processing period, Ana Isabel Ortiz describes, in the Human Rights Booklet Therefore, she concludes – not me – that the right to data protection is intended to prevent the "illegal and harmful treatment for the dignity and rights and freedoms" of the person concerned. Ms. Ortiz also said that the Constitutional Court's ruling 299/2000 recognized and denounced how there was an indeterminacy in the current state-level legislation on data protection because it left many issues in the hands of the Administration that de facto – about all of us – works in the hands of the Public Administration. And that, ladies and gentlemen, generates defencelessness for the whole population. If this lack of defence of the regulations is combined with the ignorance and low awareness that citizens have about the right to data protection, we have a worrisome breeding stock. That is why we dare to state in this rostrum that what Lanbide does with the fingerprint is an abuse. But it also calls into question the proportionality with which the Basque public administration is acting and, above all, puts at risk the ability of individuals to exercise their fundamental right. This we can – and I understand that we must – analyse from different perspectives. Firstly, from the ethical point of view, where I am sure we are not going to have an agreement, because the ethical aspect in this case has to do with the place from which the measures implemented by a government are focused and for us it is not ethical what is being done today. Secondly, from the procedural point of view, that is, how the measures are applied in the light of the information we have right now on the table and in relation to the procedure for implementing the fingerprint in Lanbide. And thirdly, strictly legal, here and perhaps since my illustrious being, I understand that we can and must agree because the law is enforced or not enforced. And I'm sure you don't want this government of all of us not to comply with the law. At this point, and only at this point, is the basis for today's motion. However, I want to expand a couple of elements because I think it is important that we describe why we brought it and why we put it in such an important place. From the ethical plane we will not walk with deception or half truths. You know, we all know that our group does not agree with the implementation of the fingerprint as a mandatory identification element, neither in Lanbide, nor in the garage of this house, nor anywhere else. We do not agree to implement measures to control these characteristics for the exercise of rights because they are disproportionate and in addition, in this case, because they only apply to a sector of citizenship, which are the people with the greatest difficulties in exercising rights. We do not agree either because we do not believe that it is necessary in line with what is laid down in the European regulation. It seems to us to be an aggressive mechanism, it seems to us to be a mechanism that is not proportional to the purpose that it pursues, tremendously invasive and that, moreover, it is being implemented with too little lightness and without due guarantees regarding the importance it has. But it is also that in Elkarrekin We cannot agree because we understand that implementing this in a service is to consolidate the shadow of suspicion that some are responsible for reinforcing day by day with their speeches and even with institutional campaigns, about thousands of people who are in a vulnerable situation, but, above all, because it is to experiment with very delicate issues and with people with whom we have to behave responsibly, with more and better responsibility for what is being done today. From an ethical point of view, also in Elkarrekin We cannot say but that it is outrageous, that if the ultimate objective of the implementation of this tool is to do so in the entire administration, for its modernization, why not start with other areas? Why choose the unemployed, the pensioners, the people in poverty, the vulnerable and those who will ultimately be less opposed to a measure like this? If this Government is well convinced that it is doing so, why not start with other departments? What's wrong is that nobody thinks they won't let you go to the doctor because they don't put your fingerprint on it or they won't let you make the rent statement because they don't put your fingerprint on it. And this, ladies and gentlemen, does not seem ethical to us. It is unethical and the message that is transferred to the citizenry, from this government of responsibility, is that with impoverished people everything is worth it. And you know that with that you're not gonna find me, or rather, you're gonna find me at the front. In our view, this is not ethical, too, because it does not comply with the law. It does not meet today's recommendations and the mandate of the European regulation, but it is also that, from an ethical point of view, it is impossible for Lanbide and the systems in general, both of employment and of conditional benefits, to ensure that consent has been given freely, because they recognise it more or less in this forum, ladies and gentlemen, when The ability to eat or feed your family depends on whether or not to put a fingerprint, or whether or not to sign a paper, it is impossible to consent freely. From a procedural point of view, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a lot of cod. And it is neither proper nor timely, nor of course tolerable, in a serious government. Since 19 March the fingerprint is being measured in 10 offices; 10 offices that, as if it were a call centre At the appearance of the Basque Data Protection Agency in this house it was clearly stated that Lanbide was given a communication explaining to them that they had to make specific regulations and that the idea of establishing mandatory data protection did not seem to respect the rules on data protection. But the government and Lanbide, like donkeys with earrings, go on and on, expressing expressions such as that "the footprint will be mandatory" or that "it will take to the last consequences". It's a shame that the most responsible person today isn't here to hear it. Above all, and with regard to the procedure, Mrs Uria, the top representative of the Basque Data Protection Agency, said that impact assessment and risk analysis are requirements, not recommendations. However, as I said, more than 10,000 people are identified today without legal guarantees. But not alone. In the instruction approved by the Directorate of General Services of Lanbide, who sent me in response to a question from Elkarrekin Podemos, there is a lot of miga. We start, for example, by saying that we are talking and denouncing the biometric identification measure, but it turns out that the part that doesn't count is that Lanbide is demanding, in addition to taking the 10 fingerprints, facial recognition. Yeah, in case they didn't know, this is a fingerprint and facial recognition as well. More measures are taken in Lanbide than in the prison itself. Facial recognition that, in case you don't know, I also tell you that there are many experts who question you. They question facial recognition because it is a very unreliable measure, which has already generated many problems in its application and which is not recognized as a validated identification measure, but Lanbide applies it here. Everything's fine, I insist. Not for us. In this same instruction we find several contradictions. At first it is matified that the implementation of the footprint in this pilot program is voluntary, but when describing the procedures it is indicated, over and over again, at least seven times, that it is mandatory. Once again, we are witnessing a space of discretion which we understand is unfair and absolutely impractical, in addition to being contrary to law and regulation. They say, textually, that "citizens who want to make use of the services provided by Lanbide will have to identify themselves biometrically". And that, in addition to not being approved in any law to date, the European Data Protection Regulation, in particular Article 43 thereof, states that consent must be guaranteed freely and, to that end, there must be no imbalance between the data subject and the data controller. And he says so because he understands that it is unlikely that consent has been given freely before a public administration. Again, nothing about what Lanbide does. Nothing at all, ladies and gentlemen: this is implemented and ready. And it is conditioned, or intended to condition, access to a right if fingerprints or facial recognition are not given. But also, there is not a single mention in the whole instruction about what it has to do with informing citizens about their rights, about their risks, and about what it means to give your data through the fingerprint. Not once. How will this procedure ensure that consent is free and informed? Please explain it to me. I could spend the 15 minutes tearing this instruction apart, but I do want to just point out one last one, because it seems very serious to us. An obligation for this Government to get out of the way, which Lanbide likes very much. He says, when talking about incidents in the biometric data record: "If the person does not have a mobile phone number or email address, he will be informed of the obligation to have a contact phone and an email address". Besides that this statement is absurd, and it is absurd that it is contained in an instruction, I will simply bring here a few words from previous Ararteko, Mr Lamarka, about e-inclusion. He said that the positioning of people in one or another phase of digital empowerment is born of us talking about four types of gap: the digital gap of access, use, appropriation and participation. We say that all four gaps are also social gaps and are occurring in the body that should protect citizens. Citizenship with more or less limited technological skills does not, of course, have any obligation to have a smartphone or a phone, especially because it is citizenship that is in a precarious situation and that may not be able to pay for it. And in order to conclude, and with regard to the strictly legal sphere, the core of the issue that we have to address today, we come back: more than 10,000 people identified without impact assessment and without risk analysis, issues that, I insist, are legal requirements. The working group in Article 29 of the European Regulation stated that the use of the fingerprint as an identification mechanism can lead to a gradual reduction in the rights of citizens, that its use will not be proportional, if the same purpose can be achieved by a less invasive means, that it can only be used to protect an important public interest and that it will never take place without the free consent of the person, without his or her manifestation of the free, informed and explicit will. He also said that the legislator was responsible for drafting a law to establish the legal basis for the processing of data, especially in the case of special categories, which, I recall, occupy today's debate. But we still have nothing and it seems that in today's debate we will have nothing. This is our positioning, diaphanous. From this place and in an exercise of responsibility, we present a motion of minimums, a motion that requires compliance with the law. Correcting is wise, and in their motion, in which the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party recognize that it is necessary to comply with certain legal procedures, they are acknowledging that the law is not being complied with today. We present the logical steps and this is not going to go forward. It will not go ahead with the violation of the rights of our citizens. You know that this is necessary, mandatory and minimal, you know that the impact assessment, the specific regulation is to put light and tachographs on something that is not being done well, light and tachographs on a fundamental right threatened to the citizenship of this country, so the law says, but, above all, because such measures cannot be implemented, crazy, though sometimes, in the obsession of being a police officer of poverty, you forget. We have come to the present state, because the bureau of Empeducus and Policia has no ethical point of view, because it has no ethical aspect to protect and support the citizens, because the Department of Empeducus and Polylytic Society gives a department for the control of the labourers and the poor. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs of departments, congressmen. Well, we're arguing again a theme that we discussed in the past. I must remember how the proposition proposed by the Poptular Party did not vote, and it was agreed between the other parties that this Chamber was made. Considering that we have already discussed the implementation of the fingerprint as a means of identification in Lanbide three years ago, this group, the Popular Group, of course, considers that in the implementation of a measure that we consider positive with a view to improving the management of Lanbide and control in Lanbide, because we have wasted time. The People's Party has already brought an initiative for the implementation of this identification mechanism in Lanbide, and I have to say that the initiative, as such, was voted against, and a compromise was reached which, very ambiguously, was talking about improving identification systems in Lanbide, in the public administration as well, in general, to which I will then refer. For us, the implementation of the fingerprint as a means of identification in the Basque employment services undoubtedly improves management and control in Lanbide. This system allows you to quickly, efficiently and securely accredit people's identity. Moreover, we cannot be alien to the incorporation of new technologies in the management of public services and, in this case, to the services provided from Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service. As I said, it allows us to more effectively establish the identity of people, biometric recognition, through digital identification through biometric data, and apart, we all have to remember that the correct identification of the users of a service is one of the obligations of any public administration, that is, to verify exactly that the user is the person who says that it is, in order to be able to validate, therefore, the performance of actions in the administrative field. As I said, we presented an initiative in the past legislature, in particular it was discussed on 13 April 2015, and it was a very simple, very concrete and very clear initiative that said that the necessary mechanisms should be initiated to implement the fingerprint in Lanbide as a system of user recognition in those cases where technically and legally it will be considered necessary, in order to improve the service. But this initiative was not taken into account and, therefore, another transaction came out that, as I say, was not at the heart of the issue and talked more about modernising and updating the digital identification systems, but it did not talk about the implementation of the fingerprint, which was the initiative that this Executive raised. Well, at the beginning of this initiative we find one of the proposals, when the adviser, Mrs Artolazabal, presents in the relevant committee proposals for modernization and improvement of Lanbide's management, because we find, surprisingly, with which we want to implant the fingerprint. That, too, was concerned to explain and clarify, especially the doubts that came from some groups represented in this House, that it was not at all the measure that the People's Party wanted to implement or launch. The truth is that after three years of the People's Party bringing the debate to this House, after almost two years of parliamentary term, we do not have this measure in place and we, of course, consider it an absolutely necessary measure to improve management and control in Lanbide, which we believe is one of the absolutely essential issues at this time, if we really want to improve and we have the will, and the Government has the will, to improve management in Lanbide. But it is also true that the two fundamental tools that this Government intended to implement have not yet been launched. Obviously, I have to remind you that this government is renouncing to introduce the draft law amending the GIR, and that responsibility is passed on to the groups supporting it, to the Socialist Party and to the Basque Nationalist Party, and the processing of this legislative initiative has not yet begun in the Basque Parliament. And on another of Lanbide's reforms still, obviously, although it has been referred to the groups, there has not been the monographic debate that at the time accompanied or – it was thus agreed by the House – should accompany the processing of this project or Lanbide's improvement plan. Therefore, we understand that the implementation of this measure is being extended and, in any case, also reality does not call us to optimism, because if we also see the forecast for the implementation of this measure through an additional provision in the proposed income guarantee income amendment law presented by the two groups supporting the Government, we see that this law, moreover, will come into force after one year of its publication in the BOE. In other words, it can end the legislature, seeing the deadlines, that the processing of the regulations is extended more than a year, will not enter the law in force until a year later, therefore, the reality of the implementation of the fingerprint as a means of identification in Lanbide, obviously, is delayed sine die We see that this Government is delaying the implementation of the fingerprint as a means of identification in Lanbide, in the Basque Employment Service. We are undoubtedly concerned that this issue is spreading over time, which for us is a necessary step to improve management and control in Lanbide. And, moreover, in our view, we see that it is being delayed so much, too much, and we see no guarantee that it will be implemented definitively. That dilation, to see what it leads us to, and we do not see a real will, despite the announcements, which have obviously gone after social demand, behind the proposals that the People's Party has already put on the table in the last legislature, we do not see a real will on the part of this government to implement this measure. I will refer to the initiatives put forward. Obviously we do not share the original Podemos initiative because it seeks to clearly paralyze the start-up of pilot projects that are under way. And in this respect I have to say that this group has already asked, through a written question, to see if there were any incidents, what kind of incidents had occurred after the pilot phase, and we were told that there had been no incidents of any kind. Therefore, we do not understand either the basis of the original initiative of Podemos to paralyse the implementation of this measure. On the other hand, I believe that the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party intended, in principle, to have sex or to reach some kind of agreement with the original initiative. But I do have to say that I was surprised that you clearly did not talk about the implementation of this measure and did not put a paragraph in support of this measure, to the extent of the fingerprint as a means of identifying Lanbide, which, I have to say, has been done by the People's Party, in which we urge the Government to implement this telematics measure, of the fingerprint, in Lanbide's services in a total and definitive way. That is, we believe that this is a process that cannot be stopped, we believe that it is a process that cannot be extended and we believe that there must be a real will on the part of this Government to implement this measure, which will certainly improve management in Lanbide's services. And on the other hand – and I finish, Madam President – we do believe, as we also share with Mrs Guanche, that this obviously has to be done with absolute guarantees of citizens' rights, of privacy, of privacy... In this respect, we do urge the departments concerned, the services involved and Izenpe to take all necessary measures to ensure compliance with the legal provisions. In this respect, I believe that there is no agreement, but we will remain in our original initiative, that what we are pursuing is the introduction of the fingerprint identification method with the necessary guarantees and the necessary steps to comply with the rules, the legal conditions and, among them, the new European rules in force. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u27	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u28	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing at this point the taking of fingerprints of unemployed people to access the job search service, social inclusion and income guarantee, and in particular the implementation in Lanbide's services. A pilot experience is currently being carried out in several offices in Lanbide before determining whether or not to use it. On 25 May, the European Regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of data entered into force, in which the special category of data is considered, inter alia, those obtained by biometric means as a fingerprint. Law 15/1999 on the protection of personal data also states that biometric data, as also indicated by the name of the law itself, are considered as personal data. Recently, on 15 March this year, the director of the Basque Data Protection Agency appeared in this Parliament and told us about the use of the fingerprint and the risks of its use as an identification mechanism, having to count its use with explicit and not tacit consent, after prior information to the people who are going to authorize its use, and having to have sufficient guarantees that such consent is really free. We know that, in accordance with the European Regulation, as in the Data Protection Act, they point out that these types of special categories need special regulation, and this identification of the person can be used in all the services of the Administration. A draft Organic Law on Data Protection is currently being processed in the Congress of Deputies in order to update the Spanish legal system to the European Union's regulations concerning the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data. In order to take this issue into account, it was considered necessary that, in the text of the proposal for a law on income-guarantee reform, the amendment to Article 2(3) of Law 3 of 13 October 2011 on Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service, which is drafted in the following terms – and I read textually in order to avoid confusion – should be included in the text of the proposal for a law on income-guarantee reform: "As well, Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service aims to modernise the care system for users of their services and to incorporate new information technologies into communication. "For this purpose, Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service shall use biometric systems for the identification of persons who are users of its services or beneficiaries to its services, taking into account the specifications derived from data protection legislation". It is clearly stated within it, as it could not otherwise be, that its use must always take account of the specifications derived from data protection legislation. Decree 7/2018 of 10 April, which regulated the distribution of areas within the administration of the Basque Autonomous Community, attributes to the Department of Public Governance and Self-Government the figure of the data protection delegate. And there must also be a person responsible for this area within Lanbide, linked to the data protection delegate of the Basque Government, as stated in the plenary of this House on 25 May last, the Employment and Social Policy Councillor herself, Mrs Artolazabal, where the question of the motion before us was discussed today. Also in the Law on the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, Law 39/2015 of 9 October, refers to the implementation of the e-Government in order to facilitate more agile procedures simplified and transparent of citizens in their relation to the different administrations. Within the framework, the need for proper identification of citizens and also the obligation of public administrations to verify the personality of the persons concerned in the administrative procedure to be followed before them is given importance, enabling them to be identified as quickly, easily and securely as possible. It is for this reason that the use of biometric systems has recently become very relevant in the environments where the identification of users of services in multiple fields is required, since this system allows the identification of them on the basis of a set of recognizable and verifiable data that are unique to that person and that greatly diminish the possibilities of confusion in the identification of that user. But, of course, and while it is good that more and more advanced and secure procedures for identifying individuals in the exercise of their rights and relations with the Administration are sought, this must be accompanied by the implementation of an appropriate procedure of the need to take some preliminary steps to ensure that citizens' rights are also guaranteed at all times in such relations. That is why we will support our amendment as a whole, the amendment tabled jointly between Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists, where it was pointed out, first of all, and the Basque Government was urged by this Parliament to present the impact report on the implementation of identification through biometric data in this House, in compliance with existing data protection regulations. We know that such an impact assessment on the fundamental right to data protection is necessary in order to implement them, so before it can be definitively used, we must have it, and that is why we put it into our amendment as a whole. Secondly, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to promote the development of a specific protocol for the implementation of biometric identification measures in Lanbide. We also consider that the implementation of this protocol is of particular importance and it is good to have it before adapting the decision to its definitive use or not before the Lanbide Administration. Thirdly, it urges the Government to issue a report by the Basque Data Protection Agency on compliance with data protection legislation in the Basque Government. As the Director of the Data Protection Agency stated at her appearance, this report is relevant. We tried to reach a compromise, we tried to seek the broadest possible consensus, both with the PP and with the Elkarrekin Podemos group – we could not with the EH Bildu group since they have not tabled an amendment to the whole of this initiative – but in the end it has not been possible. It does not matter; we have time to debate – I hope – on this and on many more things within the procedure that is now started with the proposed income-guarantee reform law and for the inclusion that has been initiated in this Parliament and that we have jointly presented by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups. I hope that, in the same way, we will all work towards that consensus, the maximum consensus, in order to consolidate and improve our system of income guarantee for the benefit of all citizens. In this task my parliamentary group has always been; we have always been and will be the Basque Socialists. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u29	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u30	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. About taking fingerprints on the use of people who have no work for jobs, socialize, and guarantee incomes, we have the argument described by Podemos. It's not the first time that we've spoken about fingerprints on the legislature and it doesn't look like the last one! First of all, I mean a couple of things to make the debate clear. One: the fingerprints are not only used to identify the unemployed, though the motex says so was carried away and the head physician of the Artola wides said to you on interpelation day. The intention is that all users of the service and preparation of the user, and all the employees of the profession, should be able to identify them with fingerprints. Eta, bigarrenez, aurrerapauso bat ematen du Podemosek bere jarreran, zioan honela baitio: "In order to contribute to the initiative to implement the fingerprint in Lanbide services". I think it is a step forward to assume that identification through the fingerprint is going to start and it seems that with his initiative what he was looking for was to improve or that could be done with guarantees. It seemed to me that they had banished from their speech the argument of stigmatization of the collectives, because they neither collected it in their justification nor used it in their speech on the day of the interpellation. And in addition, this stigmatization of collectives, which were called upon, when they are of particular sensitivity, to which you have mentioned here today, because, of course, such stigmatization is not given in any case. Therefore, it seems essential to us that we remove it from our speeches. But really, Mrs. Guanche, that after hearing you in the rostrum, both the tone and the speech leave me much to think about. I thought we'd made some progress. You spoke of minimums, but in your speech, in your tone, I don't know if that can be called "advanced", "stay where we are" or even "retroced". Of course, it did not seem to me responsible, at least to seek that agreement to try to improve, if that is what you intend. With regard to Law 39/2015 of 1 October of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, it deepens the implementation of the e-Government, with the aim of achieving more agile and transparent procedures. These procedures, according to the law, must respond to the current needs of society and lead to a necessary administrative simplification for citizens. We are convinced that this method of identification is aimed at this. The correct identification is, moreover, an obligation of the public administrations in order to verify the personality of the persons concerned, so that they can validly perform any action provided for in the administrative procedure. Biometric data collection is one of the most effective and agile ways to identify people. Identification through the fingerprint is a modern way of communicating with the Administration, appropriate to the current technology and that speeds up all the processing that will be carried out, in this case, with Lanbide. In our view, this will result in improved and safer service –finality that, I'm sure, we all share. The use of digital and telematics management formulas makes the services provided by the Administration more efficient and agile. Simplification and speeding up of procedures help to respond more quickly and adequately, using these new relationship and telematics initiatives. We insist that this will lead to the improvement of the service provided to citizens by Lanbide. We share the fact that the fingerprints are specially protected, so that they must be taken and managed with all guarantees, and that all the rules which regulate the subject must be respected, of course, from the ruler of the European Union and its rule. they all agree with that. I'm sure that's how it's going to be, and that's how it's gonna be. That's how the chief physician explained it to you on the day of his interference. He also told you that the organic law of the state is in tramation, in order to conform to this rule, and that it will also affect the Eucharistic rules: We'll have to make arrangements and make fun of them, no doubt. In the meantime, M. M. M.M. has accepted the measures in the organizational world, waiting for the organic law: the Governor and the Department of Autogournus have been appointed a delegate for the protection of the data. Even the profession has already named it its own domain. To this day it is proceeded to identify on a voluntary basis As we are fully convinced of the improvement of this new form of management, we believe it is important to continue with the pilot plans and the fingerprint as a form of voluntary identification. That is why, Mrs Garrido, we were not going to support and we are not going to support the original initiative, because we do not agree to paralyse this measure, which seems to us to be an agile, modern form of identification and which we believe is also safe and, of course, that the data will be treated in the relevant way, because they are data of special protection – we agree on that. That data isn't crawling through Lanbide, Mrs. Guanche. In order to be able to apply the identification by means of the fingerprint to all persons related to Lanbide, its regulation is necessary by means of a legal provision – a matter already provided for in the Law on Amendment of the GIR presented by the groups that we support to the Government – and this will be done. The provision providing legal cover for its implementation shall be approved, prior to the establishment of this means of identification in a general manner. With regard to the original initiative, we share several of its points, rejecting – as it has already done it said – the one who requests the halting of the start-up of more pilot offices in which the users are identified – I insist, in a way voluntary – by means of fingerprints, because there is no legal justification to paralyse this form of identification and, moreover, because we believe that the establishment of these pilot plans is mixed with the new model of management of the offices of Lanbide with the subject of fingerprints. It seems important to us, in the interests of better management and greater efficiency, that management through pilot schemes in different offices can be expanded and adapted to the needs, and that things can be made better, so that – I insist – they always benefit the service that is provided and, in the end, the citizenry. Nor do we believe that it is necessary, with regard to its original initiative, a specific regulation that regulates this form of "only" identification – the intercommission – for Lanbide. He had no doubt that the requirements laid down for that purpose would be met, but it should not necessarily be by means of a specific and concrete law only for Lanbide. And we essentially shared what Podemos proposed in that we believed that what he was looking for with his initiative was that all the necessary guarantees were given in order to be able to establish it in a general way and, therefore, we believed that we could reach an agreement. It is true that the amendment that we tabled by the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Party was aimed at trying to reach an agreement, of course, with the original initiative, which is the one which is being proposed and which was on the table in order to reach an agreement, but, well, it has not been possible. As I said at the beginning, we will continue to talk, certainly – I have no doubt – about the fingerprint and biometric data, and let them know that we will always be willing to try to reach agreements, but we believe that the tone and the will are also demonstrated by the speeches we make. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u32	Good morning, everyone. Today I am going to make an exception to the linguistic criterion that I usually use to get understood and the translation service has no problem. This issue can be addressed from two very different perspectives. One is the perspective of a question of management, of modernization of the public administration, of something harmless, aseptic and totally neutral. And there is another point of view, which is the point of view of human rights and the stigmatization of poverty, which is what I want to talk about today. I do not want to talk about RGI, nor do I want to talk about unemployment; I want to talk about stigmatization and criminalization of poverty, which I think is the perspective we need to talk about. And I want to do it starting with something that I don't normally like to do, but that, as it's something public – and I think it comes down to it – would be interesting to put it on the table today. I will start with something personal: I, I confess, was a perceptor of the RGI – so basic income – as you all know – because it was something that was published in different media in 2011. I was 21 years old; I was autochthonous, of those who were always born here, and it turns out I had a law firm in which – yes, no, no, it is so – and I had a law firm that was, just started and, of course, as you all know, when a business starts the calls are not so common and it takes more time for that business to be consolidated. I had a daughter to feed, because I had a couple in prison, or a daughter to feed alone – so I was a single mother at all costs – and some parents, whom I love very much, but I didn't want to ask anything. And there's a law that allowed me to ask for that help. So, ask for that help. That aid was granted to me because it met all the requirements of the law. I was informing the Diputación (through the social worker, who was like it was before moving to the Lanbide system), through quarterly VAT, etc. – it is also true that she was a professor of the UPV, but I have to say that the teachers of the part-time UPV charge 450 euros, so that everyone can get an idea of the situation of the UPV, which will be the subject of another debate–. So, well, the truth is that the revisions made by the Chamber were late and those revisions were conceptualized in a word that looks very ugly very ugly very ugly – and that I am convinced that if we used it in the statements of rent, the whole middle class would take their hands to the head – a concept like "indebted benefits" – which was then a bombardment when the whole subject passed to Lanbide and it was discovered that there were so many indebted benefits. What happened to this word? Well, it also happened that I got that letter in August, just when the citizenry has less chance of making resources to the administration, – I am giving you ideas, Mrs Artolazabal, about how you can improve the control, management and modernization of this system. Then, he arrived in August, he went to the newsletter, because, obviously, in August, I was not there, and as soon as he went to the newsletter some butcher journalist decided to make that a giant ball and put the shadow of the suspicion of fraud: I was allegedly defrauding the basic income and, therefore, the social emergency aid, which also corresponded to me. I decided to explain this issue – and from here I would like to thank then Junter Markel Olano, of the Basque Nationalist Party, and the Junter of the People's Party, Iñigo Manrique, for the personal help they gave me and for not having fallen into caruñerism I remember a judge who – once a rich person was convicted in a sentence, a well-known rich person, but I'm not going to mention it – said it was a shame because he was not a criminal – as if he were just a few people and not a rich person who committed crimes, that those should also be criminals, right?–. Well, it's kind of the same thing. We're talking like it's harmless, and it's not. The subject of the fingerprint is not innocuous, because the fingerprint will only be applied in Lanbide's modernization. Hey, we could apply it to the modernization of the entire Basque administration. That would be interesting. It could be an issue, independently, with your security gaps... We should see how the subject of informed consent occurs, etc. No, but we happen to think about doing it in Lanbide, in RGI collectors and in long-term unemployed. Because we all know that it is not safe to do so in order to go to polysports or to get into this Parliament's garage, to do so in order to receive support from RGI or to renew the administrative procedures of long-term unemployed people. And I'm going to put another example: the bracelet of an organizer of a cycling race. That's harmless. Was the marking of the Jews in Nazi times harmless? Well, it's not the same, it's not the same, and I don't think you can compare one thing to the other, because it seems like a frivolity to me. The regulation adopted by the European Union in May already says so. It clearly states this: biometric data need more security, more ethical caution, more technological caution, and more caution in terms of guarantees of information and guarantees of the management of such information, because it is another very important area. I remember all the doubts that existed in the exchange of tax data when we were in the Chamber, because then yes, data protection was very important – something I totally agree with – but as important is in the management of taxation as in the management of Lanbide. Because, what's the point? The real target the department has, what is it? Modernisation and agility? Well, let's speed it up in traffic tickets or in Osakidetza. Let's generalize it. We are going to make a general approach to modernising the public administration, which is lacking. Or what is it? Because I believe that when the first press conference was held, the first public presentation was made, the approach was not the modernization of the administration. This was an argument that came later. It came in an anti-fraud package. Anti-fraud. An anti-fraud package which, as we all know, fraud in the GIR is 1%. I'm not saying with this that it's not important. Fraud is always important, and it must be controlled and pursued. Whether this fraud is committed by the GIR or whether this fraud is committed at the tax level is the same. Fraud will always be fraud. And EH Bildu will always be against fraud and will always be in favour of control mechanisms in the management of fraud, because that, paradoxically, legitimizes the system itself. That is to say, that there is a system of fraud control legitimizes the system of GIR itself, because people are going to recognize that indeed the recipients of GIR are legally recognized collectors, because sufficient screening and control mechanisms have been made so that they are actually worthy of that. There's been another change too. At first Mrs Artolazabal raised that it was a compulsory issue. The Basque Data Protection Agency has had to come to say that it cannot be mandatory, that this system is invasive enough and ethically doubtful enough, and that it is doubtful enough in terms of security, because we sometimes get bogged down with security and new technologies, but we must bear in mind that new technologies have very important security gaps and that these security gaps often fail, regardless of whether crack systems are set up, often fail, and we know that when the system is biometric, failure does not come back. It is not the same (the example Margarita Uria gave us was that) that some keys should be put in place that can be restored or the fingerprint system put in place that cannot be restored. That doesn't have a possible remedy, it doesn't have a possible remedy. With regard to the informed consent requested by the Data Agency, I believe that this is a very important issue. Informed consent, first information. Do we have any assurance that this information is available? Is there unified information? Is there information from the technicians and professionals of the Lanbide administration? I doubt it. And that consent is free? Is that consent free when a person has to receive the lentils after doing so? Is it consent that is given freely? Are we going to make sure that consent is free? I would like, in conclusion, to say, on the one hand, that a system, a society can be organized according to distrust, depending on security and control, or it can be organized in a way in which the Administration protects and cohesives citizens. And I believe that this element is neither cohesive nor protective of citizenship, it is rather the opposite. To insist that we are not rejecting fraud, neither in the GIR nor in any other aspect vis-à-vis the Administration, that there must be control, but that control and security in management in the GIR does not justify this system so invasive, that I think that is where we have the element. Between politics and ethics we have to have a concordance and, in this case, the application of that measure is not ethically justified. It is not justified either by the objectives it has or by the costs – of which we have not spoken – that this system entails. I believe that, from an ethical point of view, we should put the brake back and I believe that we should not continue with this approach. It is said that we are in a pilot phase but in a pilot phase that is already implemented. I understand there's no rush, let alone if something's voluntary. If you're a volunteer, why are you in such a hurry? If anything were mandatory, yes. I believe that Mrs Artolazabal continues to argue that this is going to be mandatory and I believe that she hopes that when the law passes this will be mandatory. I hope that the Basque Agency will put it back, if this Parliament is not able to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Passing the answers, Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u34	Thank you, ma'am. Before I begin to respond one by one, I want to make a general clarification because perhaps in wanting to transmit many things at first I have not been clear. In this motion we are presenting, there is no opposition by opposition. And of course, there is no ludicrous attitude, of wanting to end technology. It's not that, not by far. What is important is to ensure that the issues, which are our responsibility, are implemented with legal guarantees because they are not done today, and they are also applied with accessibility because the Administration is responsible for ensuring that the rights of citizens are accessible, and this, today, is not done either. The feeling that I'm staying with – and it's something I'm very sorry for – is that here the parties that support the government, they like to admit it more or less, it hurts them more or less to admit it, they have bought Mr. Maroto's speech. And that speech, Mrs Sánchez, neither allows consensus, nor prestiges law, nor allows respect for people. That discourse is racism, aporophobia and the criminalization of poverty. And I agree with Mrs. Ugarte that that's the important thing. Mr Maroto was talking about the footprint to stop abuse and counterfeiting, but he was also saying – and I think I'm quoting more or less textually – that new technologies are indispensable for improving public services. We do not oppose the improvement of public services. How could we oppose that? But, of course, we are opposed to them being applied without legal guarantees and as an obligation, because that is not in accordance with the law. Mrs Garrido, I am deeply pleased that you do not understand the fund and do not want to support the initiative because that indicates that we are in the right direction, but, of course, that you share that fund makes it a little incomprehensible that nothing will come out today. It is incomprehensible that we are facing a summer of impunity for the fundamental rights of Lanbide users and, I do not know, the same for women workers. Mrs. Sánchez, the law is not enforced when it is possible. And the bill is not yet approved. If there are no guarantees, it is paralyzed and it is already, because rectifying is wise, and the motion we have put on the table was a motion for no one to lose on the way. You speak, for example, of the government's data protection officer, but in the internal investigation you say it's Izenpe. If you can tell us, I would appreciate it because in all this there are certainly many things that are not clear. I think – I'm sorry – it's amazing, isn't it?, because suddenly the risk assessment and the report are timely, relevant, necessary Why haven't they done it before? It's in your hands, in your hands, Mrs. Artolazabal, you've done it before. And you, if you really have in the center the search for consensus, we have to act with an attitude that allows us all to put something and not just leave hair in the trap to the opposition. Mrs Arregi, of course I recognize that it is, as far as possible – as long as it is in my hand – and as long as the legality is not fulfilled, it will not be the last. The tone does not change the content, and you apologize if my tone is altered when I am concerned that this government does not comply with the law. I am concerned and I understand that I must be occupied by the parliamentary position in addition to being concerned. You claim we're taking steps forward. In my speech, I think I have made it clear: we do not agree with the measure, but we are aware, first, of the place we occupy and, then, we are also aware of the level of sympathy that this awakens both in you and in the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. By assuming the place we occupy and the positions that exist in this House, we assume that this will go forward, but we assume that it will go forward and what we will not assume – and we will never assume – is that it will go forward without legal guarantees and without respect for the fundamental rights of the population. We're never going to assume that. You have said in your speech that in order to do so generally it will be approved, that there will be legal coverage, but you have formulated it in the future. He is acknowledging that today, as the counselor acknowledged on the day of the inquiry, the law is not being complied with and this is a general tonic of Lanbide. And this is something intolerable. We can discuss about itself the footprint is going to be more effective or more agile the Lanbide system, but there is no discussion in which it cannot be implemented this way and in which it cannot be mandatory. There's no argument in that. Mrs. Ugarte, eskerrik asko. You seem very brave to share this speech, because it is a clear demonstration of the impunity that operates in Lanbide, that operated when you were a perceptor and that you continue to operate today, and that I fear that with this attitude you will continue to operate for longer. Of course, I hope that those channels of dialogue mentioned by Mrs Sánchez, that need for consensus, will be put at the centre and let us all think about how to do things better. I totally agree that what underlies all this is the discourse of criminalization and I just ask you to think for a second what would happen if you are going to ask Osakidetza for an appointment and say, "No, listen, to have an appointment in Osakidetza first you have an obligation to have an email; second, you have to give me the fingerprint." "No, no, it's just that I don't want to give the fingerprint." "Oh, it's just that then you won't be able to go to the doctor." Because that's what de facto "Be that as it may, it is not yet approved and should not, Mrs Artolazabal, be applied. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Euscala Popular's representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u36	I believe that with an important subject such as this one should not be dramatized and I believe that there has been some dramatism on the part of some people involved in this rostrum. I understand the original initiative of the Podemos group – which seeks to paralyse the implementation of the fingerprint – and Bildu's because, obviously, they are two groups that have been shown to be against this measure. The Basque Nationalist Party also showed itself against this measure in the past legislature and, in fact, voted against – in 2015 – an absolutely clear and simple initiative that talked about the implementation of the fingerprint as a means of identification in Lanbide's services. That is why I too, in my first speech, wanted to stress that this Government is going to be late, that we also have no guarantee that this measure will actually be implemented definitively, since it is included in a provision in the bill submitted by the Basque and Socialist Nationalist groups regarding the amendment of the regulations of the Law on Guarantee of Income and Social Inclusion and taking into account that another provision clearly mentions that it will come into force after one year of implementation. In other words, it is going to take time for this absolutely necessary, safe, effective measure with guarantees to be implemented at once – and I will say so – in Lanbide's services, which was the purpose of the People's Party three years ago. This is something that this Government has denied, and it seems that not only in this matter, but in everything that has to do with Lanbide has gone beyond the reality of the facts, the reality of the data, the social reality, the social concern, and in the end it is a Government that has seen itself in need – well, not the Government, because in the end it has been unable itself to bring its own bill here in connection with the amendment of the Income Guarantee Act, for the amendment of the GIR, and it has had to be the groups that support it that have brought this initiative. In any case, Mrs Guanche, I do have to tell you that we will be with you when the law is not enforced. I mean, there's no doubt about it. You will find us, you will be able to seek our support, we will seek yours when we see actions by a government that does not comply with the law. Moreover, I believe that if we see that a Government and this Government do not comply with the law, I believe that the activity of the opposition groups cannot be left in mere political criticism, but that obviously we should also go to the relevant bodies. In any case, I also have to say that I see, that's why I was referring to drama – and with absolute respect to the personal situation and to the description of some personal situation, as it couldn't be otherwise – I see a certain contradiction when in the previous debate you were talking about a genetic passport for athletes. That is to say, we are talking about a fingerprint check, which is to use the new technologies for the identification of users of the public administration, when the obligation of public administrations is precisely to verify the identity of users who are going to perform any administrative act or who are going to access a service or service, as is the case, when you put in your proposals the bill that we discussed at the beginning of this parliamentary session, you tell us about a genetic passport of the athletes. It goes on that if there is no control on a person's genetic data and what treatments can be given to that data, and it goes on that there must be no guarantees in relation to ensuring the privacy of all that data. Well, I am putting an end to the parties that support the government (the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party), I believe, Mrs Arregi, Mrs Sánchez, that if they really support the fingerprint as an identification mechanism in Lanbide, what they would have to do is really support the People's Party initiative. I have said this in my first speech, and I was somewhat surprised because you, through your amendment, I believe that you are looking for a compromise with the proposing group because, in fact, you reproduce some of its paragraphs, not so the paralysing, but I have missed the fact that if this government now bets, I no longer know whether it is decisively, but rather ambiguous and also tried to dissociate itself from the initiative, which is the implementation of the fingerprint proposed by the People's Party in the last parliamentary term, it has not been included in its amendment as a whole. I am surprised, that is why I say that if you, in a position of coherence, now, at the moment, this government is implementing this measure of control of the identity of the people who access Lanbide, you would have to do nothing but vote for the amendment that the People's Party has tabled. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u37	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u38	Mrs. Guanche, Mrs.Ugarte: To give the impression, for us I think it is the same when it happens, and we, all of us, ladies and gentlemen, have just asked, so that we can put the car in the parking lot that to access the income guarantee rent. Here it has been said, "Has anyone thought about ethics, what and what?". I here haven't seen anyone raise their voice because they asked for the footprint to enter the parking lot, so they could enter the car. All of your ladies and gentlemen have given it without raising any glue or medium, in that case, but it is, however, like ultracatatrophy if you ask for other things from the Administration, as can be the biometric systems in Lanbide. I think it's an exaggeration. What is to be asked is that the whole process should be done in accordance with the rules in this area and that all guarantees should be given, and I believe that is what is at stake here. Today we have focused on the subject that is strictly on us in plenary, and have fled from other debates that do not contribute anything and that have been confusing citizens with the true reality of our income guarantee system. We did not think it was appropriate, and I told you the other day, Mrs Guanche, that this debate had to come in advance of discussing within this plenary the bill that has recently been tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, but you have decided to bring it to this House today. We have so far had a broad consensus in this House that this reform should be separated from xenophobic approaches that have been given at other times and that have been encouraged by the media and that do not correspond to reality. Do not insist now on this line, because we certainly are not, nor have we been, nor will we ever be in that line. I believe that society is waiting for us to try to achieve that broadest consensus possible, in order to modify and to consolidate our system of income guarantee protection. And that's what we're into. Although we know that we have a good system that has served as a mattress to reduce poverty during the long crisis, we want to improve it for the benefit of all Basque citizens. We do not agree, fundamentally, and we told him when the transaction was to come, at point two. The pilot experience is now being carried out and the evaluation report on the results achieved in that experience will be carried out shortly. It is all right, we have not reached an agreement, it is all right, we will continue to discuss the matter, as I have insisted here today. I invite you to allow your group to continue to vote in favour of our amendment, so that the three points contained in the amendment to the whole of which we are going to defend the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist Group, which I believe are also important, can be adopted. Mrs Garrido, you referred in your speech to what was discussed in the previous parliamentary term and which you did not support, but that the circumstances in which we are now have nothing to do with the circumstances in which we were living at that time, which, as I said, the debate was focused on a point where no one wants to focus right now, but we are at another completely different time. And if you really have an interest in improving the income guarantee system, I also invite you, in the near future, to work towards a wider consensus on income guarantee income reform, in which we are all in. Mrs Ugarte, the system has changed a lot, fortunately, since you had the experience with income guarantee income, and we are walking on to continue working on improving and consolidating that income guarantee system. The Socialists have always defended law enforcement, we have always done so and, as it could not be otherwise, we will continue to do so forever. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u39	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u40	Yes, thank you again, Madam of the Parliament. "Disproportionate system," "out of all ethics," "nothing responsible," "Lanbide impunity"... In his speech, I think he was describing his own speech: "out of proportion", "out of all ethics"... I mean, you've allowed yourself the luxury of talking about that there was no ethics in the department, Mrs. Guanche. I think, no, yes, think and read well what he said. It seems to me, of course, totally disproportionate and out of place. Speaking of Lanbide's impunity, do you really honestly believe that there is impunity in Lanbide? Yes, you already know that there are ways and means to put an end to it. You too are allowed the luxury of saying in the rostrum that you are not complying with the law. Where there is a legal breach, where there is a legal breach, there are certain procedures to go to the courts and each one to initiate such measures as it deems appropriate. Of course, we (the Euzko Abertzaleak Group), or the Basque Government, assume – and neither do the Socialist Group – that we are failing to comply with any law. We have told you that this is being done on a voluntary basis, at this time, with informed consent, although Mrs Larraitz Ugarte had doubts as to what training, etc., existed. There have been training courses on this in Lanbide, where it has been launched as a pilot plan, and it is being done on a voluntary basis, I insist. They also mentioned the two, both Mrs Guanche and Mrs Ugarte, that why it did not start with other departments of the Administration, which this meant, once again, we were talking about stigmatization, of stigmatizing poverty, by using the words, yes, "stigmatization of poverty", said Mrs Ugarte. Well, we deny the biggest one. Obviously, because, and there is the difference with the previous initiative, Mrs Garrido, that of the previous legislature, you, Mr Maroto, wanted to establish this only for the recipients of the GIR, and in that we did not agree, and less when we were at the door of an election, and we told you, that we could talk about everything, as long as it was far from an electoral period and looking for a handful of votes through initiatives of that referendum, because, of course, that was not our will. We can talk absolutely about everything and within that improvement of management, so that it is more agile and effective, within that modernization of the system and that everyone, I think, that we are looking for Lanbide to give better service, is the measure of being able to identify itself by means of biometric data. That you can start with other departments? Or that other counsellors or counsellors also consider it relevant? I don't see any problems, come on, but the Department of Employment and Social Policy thought it was a more agile and effective way, and that's how it is done. Not only for recipients of aid or benefits and services, it will be for all persons who relate to Lanbide. Yes, Mrs Guanche, I am speaking, and I am. And as far as you were concerned, data protection is as important in taxation as it is in Lanbide. Of course, we share it. And you also said that in EH Bildu they are totally in agreement with all the anti-fraud packages, and that they will support them, and that we must always pursue them. Of course, we agree, and in favour of anti-fraud control mechanisms because they also legitimise the system itself. We assume and share all of this, but we do not agree that this system or that this measure has been established only to mount the whole system under that prism, or depending on security and control, and based on mistrust. We certainly don't see it that way, for nothing. What we believe is that it is a measure that will improve and speed up identification and that will lead to the improvement of service and, in this way, a more cohesive and more protected society will be achieved, in the interests of the protection system that we have, which, in addition, there is a proposal to debate and improve it according to the different positions and the different contributions that the rest of the groups make. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u42	Well, Mrs. Guanche, I agree with what you say. Then I have no objection, I have no objections at all. Mrs. Sanchez used to say that procedures have improved much since that time when I took the basilic rent, and have improved much better, and I say they're not well, but I'm not telling you the truth, the Arrar says. The intermediary says so. Eta adibidez, in the case of undue benefits, ulterior daude 700 kexatik gora. This means that there is much to be done to modernise the Lanbide system, much to modernise the system of the provision of GIR, etc. I mean, we're not in parameters of exquisiteness and excellence in this matter. There's a lot of work to do. Mrs Garrido says that someone has used drama, I suppose it refers to me, but I think it has, I think it has been obvious and I will make it more obvious to you, I think you talk about this subject with a frivolity that scares me. It scares me. I understand that for you it is important for the middle class to go against poverty, because the river revolts, wins the upper class. That's right, and if you don't ask Maroto. But, well, that, everything's still on the line. What worries me most is that there are people in the previous legislature who, when Maroto said it, took their hands to their heads and said, "No, no, GIR borrowers just don't," and so on, and now they put him on the stand and they put him on the workers and they already feel comfortable with that system. And that's what bothers me. What troubles me is that instead of taking this speech of Marathon and taking care, because, in the end, politicians know how these things work, and we know what disinformation there is in society, and how easy it is to advance with so many Topicos and so many populisms and win the votes in a very easy manner. And I think, unfortunately, that in this subject the account of the fingering proceeds from a populism and political attitude. I mean, we know how to control it, we know how to act against fraud, and we know that we too are pressured by the people and especially by a lot of Lobby Razado el límit. There is talk of law enforcement and I would say that it is a law that is still being drafted, and therefore I do not understand how the sequence of events is taking place. That is, that pilot projects are first proposed, that we are told that it will be mandatory, then we are told that it will be voluntary, first we are told that it is an anti-fraud measure, then we are told that no, that no, that is, that it is to modernize the Administration. I don't quite understand what's left of it. Because if the goal is control and anti-fraud measures, as Mrs Artolazabal put it at the beginning, then go ahead with what they are doing. Euskal Herria Bildu is not going to be there, because he disagrees. If the objective is the protection of the system, the protection of citizenship and the search for a more cohesive society, which I understand we should be doing here and in the Basque Government, then we have to wait for what the law says, we have to do the whole sequence, we have to do the whole debate, and when that political sequence is over, then we can also discuss this issue and see what the guarantees are for citizens to be able to relate to the administration – not just Lanbide, I say it again – because, of course, this system arises here as if it were open to the rest of the options, but I have not seen any initiative by any other councillor or councillor in this regard. This arises for a very specific population, with a very concrete stigma, with a very concrete political connotation and with a very specific electoral connotation. And that is what has been highlighted here today, because I do not see any other initiative, I do not see that there is an impulse on the part of the Basque Government that the fingerprint is the future of the relationship of Basque citizenship, because all Basque citizens could have a fingerprint, and with that fingerprint and that of the Member of Parliament, because in addition to all the institutional framework that we have, it could even be interesting: I can go to the Treasury, make the declaration of the rent; I can pay the traffic ticket, which is from the Basque Government; I can pay the traffic tax in the corresponding municipality, etc. It would be, well, an important data interconnection, etc. But there is no approach of those on the table. What is there is, that to those who said Maroto that they had to be registered and registered as poor have attached other fields, which are also poor, do not receive benefits, but are also poor, and then we add to them the 1,000 workers that Lanbide has, so that the package does not seem so stigmatizing. I believe that we are in time to correct this, and I believe that we should do so in the debate on the reform of the GIR and, above all, in the debate on the modernisation of the administration, which is indeed the place where I think this has to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Now that we have finished our discussion, we will put it to the vote, the original text of Mrs. Guanche Suárez's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 29; the contrary, 44; white, 0; abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u44	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 8; rivals, 65; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u45	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Basque Socialists in full-line correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 36; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u46	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Third point in theme list: "Mortion, Myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Basque Groups of Popula, with regard to the works of the refuge of Louis Briñas of Bilbo, Santuk HLHI. Discretion and final resolution." Group proposer's turn: Miss Llanos has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u47	Gracias, señora presidenta. Good morning, everyone. Well, as I said when this inquiry ended, it affects the 450 students of Primary School and the 250 students of Secondary School Luis Briñas. A building that has its heritage importance, its architectural importance: it was designed by the architect Pedro Ispizua and is one of the buildings representative of the rationalist architectural style. But this value, which is important and important for Bilbao, has had a reverse, and is that at the architectural level certain works cannot be done in this school. For example, a covered corridor cannot be made so that children can go to the new track without getting wet and no attachments can be made to the building structure. For this reason, when one wanted to have a covered courtyard, because one had to do, in fact, a semi-earthly runway; a covered courtyard that had long been sued by the teachers, by the parents of this school, because not having, precisely, a covered courtyard obliged them – in this land of ours where it rains so little, right? – that in the rainy days they had to be inside either the gym or the corridors, with a quite important level of decibels – and I could, as I said in the interpellation, listen in situ For this reason, this group in 2013, and for the 2014 budgets, presented an amendment that was approved, so that a covered courtyard would be made in this school. Well, it seems that it had nothing to do with it, that that was within that 2014/2018 Infrastructure Plan, which I published the other day and in this plenary we had the opportunity to hear from the lady counselor. The truth is that it should have been done before, because, as I say, they had been demanding it for a long time. And in the end, what was designed was not a covered courtyard, however much here was said the other day that a covered courtyard was designed. No, a covered track was designed, and in fact the project so establishes: it does not speak of covered courtyard; it speaks of covered runway, which is something quite different. Furthermore, I am convinced that later, when all these issues pass, then it will be said that the Basque Government has gone much further, it has been much more ambitious and that, far from a courtyard, what has been made a covered trail, but now, for certain issues of interest to the Basque Government itself, it is committed to saying that it is a covered courtyard. Well, be a clue, which is what we say, or yard, what the council says, the works began on November 21, 2016 and a commission was set up at the school itself, the Aterpe commission, which was the one responsible for monitoring the work. Already from the beginning of the work, and since they were told to the parents themselves, to the teachers, to the students that what they were going to have was a covered track, because it caught the attention of the one who did not have locker rooms, because the normal thing is that on a sports track they can have locker rooms. And, of course, whether it's a track or a courtyard, the normal thing is that they can have a few bathrooms, especially if we consider the distance from the covered runway to the nearest bathroom, because I asked it – and I want to make it clear here – those who have been in school have been able to see how far the children have to go from the track down to the first bathroom, and, really, it's a long road that, as I said, if you go in a hurry, and the children usually leave it all for the last hour, because they may have problems, and, moreover, if they are in class or in recreation, between they go up and down, because they lose either class or rest. That is why it was proposed in this House that this work be done, while the project was being implemented. And not only, however timely this initiative may seem to be brought here today; it was also the subject of the Ararteko report, because the matter was brought to Ararteko, and it seems, as I said here, that the Basque Government does not listen to this Parliament, but it does not seem that the Ararteko is paying much attention either, because after repeated requests (because the Ararteko had to ask the department several times), a report is sent on 28 March, but when that report is forwarded, it was, in fact, even the work received. A report is issued by the director of Infrastructures, Resources and Technologies, in which it is said that the administrative regulations did not allow the work to be carried out, as long as that work was in force, and that it was necessary to wait for the work to be completed and then already start with the bathrooms and the locker rooms, to see what was the most suitable location, that seeing how it is in situ There's a Spanish saying that palace things go slowly. Well, the truth is that Lakua or Buckingham Palace, listen, because, really, we slow down for a while. The pace of implementation of this Government's projects is already seen, as in Buckingham. Years must pass, there must be protests from the Government, there must be an amendment from an opposition group to bring a work, and when it is brought, it must be incomplete. That is why, in the initiative – and then in the amendment – we have set a deadline so that this work, which we believe is necessary, can really be used properly, so that this infrastructure is not left in illo tempore There is another question: when the work is to be performed. The government says, "It will start with the drafting of the project when the work is finished, when the work is received." But, of course, the work is currently being received by the Basque Government, but the City Council has said that since there are many deficiencies and defects in security failures that have not been resolved, the work will not be received by the City Council for the time being. And if you don't get it from City Hall, that means that students can't use it, they can't use the infrastructure. I said it the other day and I want to repeat it now: it was the commission that was created in the school that was detecting, as I was watching the works go on, the deficiencies and security failures that were being seen. The other day the counselor answered that she was going to see the play weekly. Well, the truth is, if so, I don't understand how, going to the work weekly, we couldn't see the failures and deficiencies and have solved them while the work was being done. And not like now, that what has happened is that the work has been received (the work is already in the hands of the Basque Government), those faults and deficiencies have not been solved, and now we have to pay another company to solve those faults and deficiencies in an extra time of what should have lasted the work. And one of the questions I want to ask – and here I go from particular to general – is this done in all the works? Don't you see the flaws and shortcomings in time? Are the works received with failures and deficiencies and then we already spend more money, instead of having solved it while they were doing it? Because they are not hidden vices (there is an action in law, right?, which allows to claim when one in a work sees a hidden vice, but this hidden vice has little), with which you have two eyes and go there, you are able to see it perfectly: A cutting door, in an infrastructure intended for small children, that we all know, right?, that you tell a small child "don't touch the door" and, indeed, come on, word of God, you never touch it. Come on, I think as they brought the door and saw what the door looked like, what they had to do was change the door. No, they're gonna change it now. The ramps, which take an important height, right?, with important walls. The same thing: you say to a child, "Don't go up to the wall!", uh, and the kid, let's go, perfectly, "No, no, no, I don't go up to the wall." They put a net or mesh – call it whatever you want – that if you lean, right?, you climb and one leans – apart from that it looks like an elastic bed, which is what you're going to use to play, the mesh or net as an elastic bed – as you wear scissors, right?, of these important ones, out of the net and out of the mesh. Safety failures and deficiencies – well, on the sidelines, I said, of other things, that I am not going to get involved, because they are too specific – that they are seen in plain sight, that is that before receiving the work they would have had to be arranged, that the company had to have been demanded and here I return to the general: is this usually done? Are the weekly visits of the works carried out by the Basque Government from this entity? Does it have to be a committee of parents, of school teachers, who have to be watching how... and tell the Basque government? Because the Basque Government makes a report, yes, but the report does in January (on 9 January this year), that is: the work already completed, they go to a visit and there they make a report that is dated 15 January. But in spite of that report, what I say: the work is received and we have to pay more to solve these shortcomings. And the question is that the City Council of Bilbao, which is then going to take care of the work, has said that so the work does not receive it at all, that until the security failures and deficiencies are solved, it does not receive the work. And what I said before: if you don't receive the work, children can't use it. What's the other question we're asking? These are two very clear issues. What's the other question? That before September, that is, that during the summer period, that these works can be carried out perfectly, are done so that in September the City Council of Bilbao will receive the work and the next course this infrastructure can be used. I do not know whether any of you are going to tell me, in case I am already getting ahead, that this issue is very timely, that this issue should have been taken to committee, but there are reasons to bring it, first, as an inquiry and, now, as a motion, to this plane. As an interpellation because, as I said at the time of the interpellation, and as I have repeated here today, I believe that there are issues that go beyond the specific subject of this school, which make us wonder whether the Basque Government's way of proceeding with these educational infrastructures is in this way, that is, whether the example of how the Basque Government works is what we have seen in this infrastructure: that there is no complete infrastructure; that there is no perception of deficiencies in time; that there are security failures and neither are they perceived; that it has to be the parents who tell them; that there is a report, but that in spite of that report, nothing happens, the work is received and then we will be in charge of fixing them with more money and more time. But why did we bring him here? Not with the object, as the counselor said – that the truth did not seem to me to be a very relevant phrase – that this Member of Parliament brought him here to soil the improvement of a public centre and to use a forum for it. No, we do not intend to get dirty; to use the forum yes, of course, to see if the demands are already resolved and resolved in time and deadlines and commitments are set. And why did we bring, as I said, the interpellation? To ask the questions. And then the motion, why? Because the motion allows us not to wander in the air, not to debate here and not to have effect, no. If this were to be taken to a committee, we would stand in September, in October or in November discussing a subject that we say must be resolved by September. If we brought him in as a motion, we would avoid all those steps. And today, here and in time, we can come to an agreement in which time limits are set that allow, really, that a work, as I say, so demanded and for so long, can see the light already in September, can be used, and that at the same time that infrastructure is completed with what is absolutely necessary in our opinion: of course, the work of the bathrooms, absolutely necessary, and the work of the lockers, so that they can be used as a polysports track as well. Indeed, it was very difficult for me to agree with the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government, so I did not even ask it, because we wanted specific dates, concrete approaches, and the truth is that the amendment comes to say very general issues. On the other hand, the other two amendments: one age of addition and the other of including something that seemed appropriate to me, which was to agree with the staff of the centre and with the parents, with the Aterpe committee. I thought it was appropriate, too. I thank Mrs Ubera and Mr Martínez. We hope that the amendment will also be adopted by the groups that have not signed it, but above all we hope that the motion will be followed by compliance with it and that Luis Briñas' boys and girls will actually be on the multi-sport track in September. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u48	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, together representing the Podemos team. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u49	Good afternoon. Thank you. I should like to begin with a reflection of today's discussion: What's going on? What's going on? And I don't mean that the motion presented by the Poptular party has no meaning. We've taken hundreds of initiative from different groups of oppositions, both in this legislature and in the City Hall of Bilbo, in the courtyard of Briñas, but the problems continue on the table. Then who cares? Are you responsible for the occasion or for the government? Luis Briñas School – explained Mrs. Llanos – is a building of special interest, with a certain protection. It is a public school in a city that has a clear discrimination between the quality of the facilities of the public school and that of the concerted school, in the speed of the works of some schools in certain neighborhoods of Bilbao and the speed and quality in which they are done in other centers. And once again the endowment of the public school in Bilbao is totally spoiled, with works that are delayed and that on top, when they are done, they become incomplete and they are done badly. A work, moreover, that would not have been done, if not, as has already been explained and as we have had the opportunity to know in the Education Committee of Parliament (and also in other institutions such as the Bilbao City Council), that would not have been done without the permanent mobilization of aitas, amaes and the education community of Briñas, of the Aterpe Committee, which not only mobilized, but also presented concrete alternatives, technical alternatives in this Parliament and also to the Government. There was a need to create a covered courtyard. Well, now we have a multi-sport track. We know and recognize – I know perfectly well that neighborhood, and that school, and the characteristics of the building, and how it is found and how it is also found with the slope that it has on the back side – we know that the work does not have to be easy to perform, but it presents the clue and warns us, because it was the Aterpe commission that warns us also the opposition groups, that a polysports track is made without such a basic thing, which is what I said at first, without bathrooms and without clothes. And we have had an appearance in the Committee on Education to discuss this issue where technical and viable solutions were also presented to this absence. There have been mobilizations. I was also at a press conference at the Campe del Muerto in Basarrate. There have been proposals, as I say. We made a non-law proposal that was passed in the Education Commission, very simple, which said that there was a need to have bathrooms and locker rooms at work. It's approved. Government passes from the issue, Olympicly passes from a decision of the Basque Parliament, by the majority of the Basque Parliament. It's out of the question, it's not done. So, I think: it's a very simple issue, it's a bathroom and a locker room, very simple, that we can say that, well, it doesn't have a general interest, but it does have a lot of affection in the real life of that educational community, of the children and girls, of the students and of the students of that center, but the best of all is that the work is done, the work planned by the government, and it is done badly. Who knows? Again, the school's Aterpe committee; neither the opposition groups (we are not going to wear a medal) nor the government; the Aterpe committee. Mrs Llanos has already explained that if the government went there weekly, then it could have warned that damage as well. But the government still receives the work, but the city council does not. We have a problem. We now have to solve problems that we do not know whether the Government is going to demand them or not from the contracting company of the work. The work that the Government wants is therefore being done, a decision by Parliament is not being taken and, in addition to this non-compliance, a piece of work is being done in a sluggish way, with the problems that have already been indicated. Today we have a transaction, a simple transaction. We only say that things that are badly done must be settled this summer, and that this work must be finished in September in order to be used by the people of Briñas College, and also require that we make a shifts and baths in the year 2018, and, if possible, watch if we can, how we have signed a very middle-class poscist in the first six months of 2019, but with the changerooms and baths, the toilets, the toilets, the toilets, the toilets, and the rest of the year of 2019. I believe that this is a possible compromise, as was already the first initiative that this Parliament had adopted in the Committee on Education. I believe that, like many works of public education, they are important, they are necessary and they are urgent, because we are not only talking about bathrooms and locker rooms – which, again, seems, if we speak in those terms, a baladí theme – no, that affects the quality of life and affects the quality of public education. Sometimes, problems in our lives, changes, different options, e.g., when the possibility of this track has appeared like a rift, but sometimes they get entangled like a ball, but sometimes we want to ask for it with the will, for example, "Tarro" and with the illusion, we can undo ourselves with the illusion that the Aterspe committee works, and continue to fill up dreams, but this is not only a dream of the college of Briñas, but is about the right to guarantee the education of quality, and therefore this sense has a lot of action. We say again: We've done other initiatives, and we've tried them today, at least I think this is gonna prove to us, and I think from this tribe, that whatever we try in the law, it's going to be the end of the Euskon. We've got a feeling that this thing hasn't been done on this and that's why I think we have to say it here today, at least from the opposition, at least from our team, that the Euko MUDY is going to fill up what's being tested here in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u50	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u51	Good morning again. The case today, the case at the College of Louis Briñas, is a clear example of what's going on in the works of the Board of Education. What's going on? Well, the play performs the Education Department without agreeing with the college community. What's going on? That the needs of the school community aren't taken into account, even if the community should send it to the Board of Education. What's going on? That it's done without enough planning, instead of doing things right from the beginning. One thing is first done, then another, and everything is so, and all this is in the same work. And the question is: is this a good management of public money? Is that the label for the good manager? Well, no. That's a pattern you shouldn't make with public money. The quality of the work is questionable too. So, what's the matter with us? That no one does his cares when the work is over. And all this happens more about the works that are performed or promoted by the Central Education Department. The subject we've been talking about has been around for a long time at the Board of Education. The second of June 2nd, 2017, we presented a proposition of the same nature as Podemos and we, who were with us at the committee on the 28th of June, 2017. From every now and then they follow us from this committee, and send us reports; our party has also asked us to see a visit from the college itself, and it is easy to see what takes place in the committee, but we must see things, we must contradict them; and we have asked the chief physician a few questions, and the answers arrived yesterday. It is curious, the answers of some questions (in fact, in eucalypine and youthfulness, the answers are not the same, to begin with). Look at our middle course today, the Popular Party, Podemos, and the middle term we've agreed to, what we're asking is to receive the work before September. In reply, when he arrived yesterday, they tell us that the formal act of doing the work has already taken place. We don't know what that means. I don't know if it's received from the work that means "a formal experience." I don't know. Then, when we ask with certainty, and with errors, and even when we ask him, the answer is not clear (and it is not the same as the answer of the eucalyptic and youthful), it is evident that the defects which are in the work, and which have been laid upon the table, do not again and again, the institution of education does not burn them. What else? By the way, this is not only Louis Briñas, but this government will have to explain to us what happens one day with covered courtyards, what happens with accessability, what happens with the gymnasiums. Why do I say this? It's because we're seeing them all over again and again, when new works are done, they don't do covered courtyards. On the other hand, there's a tremendous need in several schools for covered courtyards, and they don't answer them, even though this year they've got a line of money in their budgets. We've asked the government several times how it will divide this line of money, how it will handle it, and we haven't got it yet. answer. And that, look how much rain it rains in this country. They don't have covered space in several places. One more thing: We give an enormous amount of importance to physical activity, to physical education, to the education of healthy manners, and then there's no gyms, there's no space for physical activity... And it's not a spot, and it's not an exception! There are several places where that lack is. And if not, start visiting schools. And then we do a sporting track, and we do it without a dressing room and without a toilet? What kind of planning is that? What architects do we have? Where are we in charge? At least listen to those who are brought to us by necessity. We know that everything cannot be satisfied, we know that everything cannot be answered, but we think that some things are painful and reasonable. And do what is reasonable, reasonable, and minimal. For then they cost us more money; then we must do another work. With everything that is supposed to be the case, and then you'll have the label of a good manager. No, you don't. It's just a picture. Therefore, one day, let us be patient, if we speak of all these things, and explain them to us (for that we have asked for a visit). What we see is a lot of pretty words, but then at last it's action and not much size. And we hope today's discussion will be useful for us to solve this matter once and settle it, because it's our job to make proposals, to continue. But is that how a committee of a school should behave? It's exhausting. So, let's hope today's discussions are valid in definition to solve this matter. Besides, we've got a visit to ask for it, we'll have that visit to hire the opportunity. And, well, we're glad about the medium we've earned, and let's hope to protect even the parties that support the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u53	Today it is up to us to talk about a motion that seeks, according to what it announces, to resolve the deficiencies presented by the work of the covered sports track and that is completed and in a position to be used before the beginning of the course. That is the main object of the motion. I am not going to take into account the reasons that lead Mrs Llanos to present it, the fact is that she is here, and, moreover, we all know this issue, because, as has already been said here, it has already been discussed in the Committee on Education. We know the complications that have arisen in this project, although a priori In June last year, as Mrs Ubera also pointed out, the representatives of the Aterpe committee of the Luis Briñas school attended the Committee on Education, in which they explained to us the needs of the school or, rather, the infrastructures of which they lacked. They had been asking for a covered courtyard for years, since there was no space in the school that was covered, and both rainy and hot days the boys and girls were in the weather. And I want to stress that that was the initial request of the educational community of Luis Briñas College. Not a covered multi-sport track, but a covered playground for children. That's where he was born. And I can say it, and you know it, Mrs. Llanos, firsthand. Once approved with the Aterpe commission this project, it is when it expands – probably in a reasonable way, I do not discuss it, but it is a novelty that was introduced after reaching the agreement – the request for bathrooms and locker rooms for which then it began to want to call and consider a "sports track", and that it has a covered walkway for the boys and girls of the school, so that they do not get wet at the time of going or returning from one place to another. Therefore, there has been a gap between the initial request made by the school of a covered courtyard (and to which it ended up attending the Department of Education) to what was later deriving, which was something else, a little further: it was already a covered multisports track that, therefore, requires the installation of locker rooms. But that was not the subject of the original award. We also find an added reality, which is that being a protected building you cannot modify the structure, nor make any changes or additions that affect the infrastructure itself. Even, you know perfectly well, Mrs Llanos, the City Planning Commission was asked to partially lift the protection in order to be able to do another type of work and not a semi-earthly system, such as that which had to be done because the protection could not be lifted and an exquisite care had to be taken not to touch that rationalist-style building. And therefore the cost of the petition was also increased. The school is very symbolic for the neighborhood, not only because it is the referent of the public school in Santutxu, but because of what it architecturally assumes as referent, not only from the educational point of view, but also architectural. It must be recognized, it is true, that if the work went ahead it was because of the impulse given to it from the school's AMPA; it was not a department's own initiative. In 2014 the meetings of the school council and the Basque Government began to deal with this project. And the project did not contemplate the bathrooms, the locker rooms, nor the union for the roof. And at those first meetings no rejection was expressed by the representatives of the school to the project that was presented to them, as they recognized in the appearance of the commission. The work begins in 2016 and in early 2017 it is expected that the work will go relatively well. In April, the demand for the construction of bathrooms (in April, the work started already) and the problem, then, is the same as we now have: that request for the construction of locker rooms entailed a modification, this substantial one, of the construction project, which meant that the covered sports project – which is what it ended up calling it – would have had a huge delay in the works until a modification had been made and had been made – because that marks the urban legislation, it is not because we want to invent it – and the administrative procedure for the award would have been launched again. But this building of bathrooms and locker rooms, with its covered walkway, remains standing (the claim). And even though it is, as it is, an architecturally special building with a very high degree of protection, it is necessary, we continue to understand, to lower that indication of protection, and therefore, we continue to look also at the Bilbao City Council, which is competent to lower that index of protection. For what? In order to be able to do works that with this modification can better guarantee the safety, accessibility and quality of spaces for students. In addition to the appearance in committee by the Aterpe commission, the group of Elkarrekin Podemos and Bildu presented a non-law proposal that was discussed in the Education Commission of 16 October, in which it was approved that the Basque Government proceed to equip the already begun work of the project of the polysports track covered by the center Luis Briñas baths and lockers. We already warned as a Socialist Group, in that committee, that we agreed with them, and so we let them know before the meeting and then, and even we understood that the work of the bathrooms could be simple to execute, for what was the original project, that it was a covered courtyard, nothing more, but that it was much more complicated at the moment to execute the locker rooms. And today, it is true that we find ourselves in practically the same circumstances as then. We shared the need for students to need the bathrooms, and we said so and agreed with it, along with the covered walkway to access. But it is true that it seemed to us much more complicated to execute the issue of costumes, so it could entail delays of quite a long time in the execution of the work, because, by the way, by the technicians of the department itself it was warned that this would require an immediate stoppage of the project because it included a substantial modification. All this is known to the school's Aterpe commission, by the Basque Government, by myself and by other political leaders. But what should prevail here is the use of the building as a school use for students, and that they can have the best conditions. It is true that the casuistic, as Mrs Ubera said (you are right), of the climatology of the country is not only for the Luis Briñas school. It is what gives the country where we live: it is a rainy country – we do not know if more and more, because this summer has traces – and, therefore, it should be taken into account when planning the preparation of schoolyards, to have already planned in the next lines of action of playground equipment, which is one of the fights that we have held from the local administrations with the Basque Government for many years, that we must pick up or preview some kind of cover, but in any case, focused mainly on the school use of the building. And it must be corrected, it is true, all the deficiencies that this project has and that from this work have derived, according to the school community and the City of Bilbao, because the detection of the deficiencies has already been done in collaboration with the representatives of the center, but from the moment that this installation is intended to give a service not only to the school, but also to the neighborhood, that work begins to have already derived to the City of Bilbao itself, because we are already talking about a community equipment and not only school, but, in any case, that is another debate. We understand that this work should be completed (the remedying of deficiencies) before the beginning of the school year in September – we agree with you – so that boys and girls can use it. And so we say and in the amendment of the whole we ask the Department of Education to implement the additional measures already agreed with the educational community after the formal reception of the work of February of this same year, so that they are completed before the start of the school year 2018 or 2019. At least it is this aspect that will have to recognize me that of inconcretions nothing: there is a date for the correcting of the differences, that This is what has already been agreed with the educational community. In addition, we urge you to carry out a feasibility study within six months of installing bathrooms and locker rooms in the covered courtyard environment. Why? Well, because, Mrs Llanos and Mrs Ubera and Mr Martínez, we are talking about public money, and in order to be able to do that, there will have to be a record of sufficient budgetary appropriations, and that is done by means of an economic feasibility study. I could discuss the length of time for this feasibility study, which I understand is a relatively simple instrument, which would not require six months to do so, but in any case it has to do so, unless you want me to say that the Basque Government allocates resources without having any record that it has budgetary appropriations to do so. Finally, we urge the Basque Government to continue to invest in educational infrastructure, because this problem, fortunately or unfortunately, will be replicated in other schools of the public network in the Autonomous Community, and that such investments will be made according to the needs identified and the priorities set out in the infrastructure plan, responding to new realities and needs, including that of climatology, which seems evident in this country, so that this will result in the quality of the public education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u54	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beolaza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u55	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, ladies and congressmen. Due to the work of Louis Briñas at school, we have the occasion presented by the popular groups to discuss, the motion that leads to the thread of the interpelration of the last pliant. Before we reach the theme, I think it would be convenient for me to draw a summary of the precedents of my work at Louis Briñas College. In 2013, the School School School of Louis Briñas formed a committee called Atterpe: To find a solution to the problems they had been able to play on rainy days at the playground. At the end of 2013, the management team of the Luis Briñas school held a meeting with the Department of Education, in which the lack of covered play spaces in the educational center and the need to create them were transferred. The School Council moved them that it was a claim of more than 10 years. The department, after assessing the need, included this performance in the School Infrastructure Plan 2014-2018, an infrastructure plan that consists of the order of about 200 actions, of which 139 were initially planned and in the course of the plan another 51 have been added. Hence we see the flexibility and adaptation of the needs to be met. At the same time, the People's Party presented an initiative at the Bilbao City Council requiring the Basque Government to put a cover in the courtyard. In addition, it submitted an amendment to the 2014 Basque Government's Budgets to make the cover of the Luis Briñas courtyard a top priority investment. So much so that in the departure of school performances the departure was increased with an express text on the inclusion of a project of work to cover the courtyard in the school Luis Briñas of Bilbao, where the study of the installation of a "terpe" or covered was requested. At the same time, the City Hall of Bilbo had also examined the subject, the Jeltist Party, the Basque Socialists, and the Collectors, asked him to build a covered courtyard in an investment plan at the College of Louis Briñas. To do this, the City of Bilbo made a commitment to hand over the necessary soil. The Luis Briñas school is located in the Bilbao district of Santutxu, therefore, in a fully urban environment. It is a school located between streets and the haur-eskola But in this school there is another important matter, which, as has been said, determines any work: the high level of protection which the building itself has. On that level of protection, nothing can be adhered or added to the facade of the building. Other buildings, too. Hence, as is the case with these other cases, this evidence of protection renders the solutions easy to other buildings which are not protected. In view of the existing preconditions and following the timely analysis and technical contrast, the Department of Education, together with the Bilbao City Council, proposed the execution of the game track in semi-subterranean form, i.e. the execution with two different bodies within the same volume: the area of the covered space and the communications core. In order to begin the drafting of the implementation project, the Bilbao City Council took the steps required for the disposal of that required annex land. A detailed study was carried out and it was also necessary to approve the action in the property commission of the Bilbao City Council. All this extended the processing more than is usual in an ordinary work. Therefore, we are in front of a building with a protection of level B, a totally "accumulated" surrounding environment and contiguous building conditions of the solution. Because of all these conditions of different nature, we understand that the solution designed and contributed must be valued in a very positive way. We are talking about a constructive solution that involves a new covered courtyard of 600 square meters in the lower part. In addition, in the upper deck the center gains an added space of 450 square meters that is added to the existing one. They cannot deny that a good solution has been designed and given despite all the difficulties. The solutions taken in this project have been considered the conditions marked by the project to be pre-made, and are as follows: that the students should have a covered area in order to be safe from bad weather; that they should be easy to enter; To remove the slopes, and secure the access of all columns, in spite of its bad conditions. So far everyone was satisfied. The school would have been a refuge requested, a covered playground, a shelter that would protect the children from bad weather. No one asked for anything besides the shelter. Later on, when work began to build a shelter for the playground, the board called Atterpe asked for a change in the bathrooms. Then, from the work of creating a shelter, and though there is nothing more to be said apart from a shelter in meetings, the Aternate commission asks for the modification of the project to be removed by the bathrooms. "Par sacar estos baños se proponía aumentar el desnives de la rapa, con que no se cummploría la Normiva de accesileda." Last June the committee called Atterpe came to the Board of Education to demand that, besides the rest of the toilets, they also added the dressing-rooms to the project. Once the work was finished, the courtyard covered with baskets of basketball was equipped and a field was painted on the floor. Since then, some people have gone on to call that space "polysports track", generating in the educational community what expectations and beginning to request the same services as in the case of a polysports. I have heard the word "deficiencies" mentioned a few times in the speeches before me – in fact, it is in the motion tabled by Mrs Llanos. It turns out that they consider the implementation of the project to be flawed in its entirety. The project was not made in anticipation of creating a polysports track, but a covered space, a "terpe" for playground area, and, as we were reminded in the October committee, where we discussed this topic, changes were admitted until everyone came to the conviction that this is a sports track, that apart from school use can be given a social use and that we find that the expectations of possibilities of this space have been growing. It has already been made clear that when the Aterpe commission met with the department to try to cover the courtyard there was no mention of bathrooms, locker rooms, or anything like that. Once the work was started, they were already told that in order to add additional benefits to those initially contracted and envisaged in the project, a modification of the original project would have to be made and it would have to be reprocessed. This would delay execution over time. It turns out that there are deficiencies because there are no bathrooms, locker rooms and a covered entrance from the entrance to the entrance to the ramp, all of which were not covered in the project that the educational community had known since the beginning of the ramp. It must be mentioned that the school has two gyms for physical education and that each gym contains its own dressing rooms. So the school has a place to play, and the students have a place to change their clothes. We have to be clear that the object of the Board of Education is to make as strong a project as possible. That's a clear example of the difference between the original budget and the latest budget. For the conditions above mentioned made the project highly expensive. But, you know, it just went on. And before that, we've submitted the correction of Mr. Pastor. I'll quote the three points. "The US Member of the Eus demands that he will have to write down the additional measures agreed on education community, that after receiving the work in February 2018, they may be finished by learning 2018-2019." The U.S.A. wants you to do a six-month-end show-out on the covered playground to put toilets and lockers on. And keep her inflammation plan. And I can assure you that the department has made a commitment to study the different alternatives to include these new endowments in the new covered courtyard once the work has been completed, and I understand that you will try to find a viable technical solution, given the architectural conditioning and cultural protection of the building.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u56	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u57	And I know there's a will on the part of the department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Beolaza. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u59	Mrs Betolaza, you have an imagination – and more in certain debates you have to have it – but I assure you that there are issues that I have said I have not imagined or invented. You used to talk all the time about "covered heart." Indeed, the parents of the school and the educational community at first asked for the coverage of the courtyard, the coverage of the outer courtyard. I mean, you were out of school, there was an outside courtyard, and what they were asking was for that courtyard to be covered so that in case of rain the children could play there. Patio that's at the same level as the school, next to the bathrooms. No need. Patio. Yeah, okay. You have said, "as there are difficulties because it is a building that is protected, you cannot make that cover of the courtyard and then you are asked what is going to be made underground." And that's where the department's starting to mention that it's a covered lead. And I told him, "Covered track." If it's so clear, "Work on the covered yard." No, no, "Covered track." But what's more, in the Aterpe committee what we're going to say is, "see how we are in the Basque Government that, far from just making you a yard, we're going to make you a covered trail." Moreover, if one goes to the object of the project, it says: "Its purpose is to establish the guidelines for building a covered track". And with regard to the lines, it is not that they have been painted because "once done already, because we have already painted them some lines to play basketball". No, what's here on the project! What is not a courtyard: in the project are already the lines drawn and planned to put the baskets! What's going on? That they obviously didn't ask for the bathrooms at first because they had them next to them. When they see how far they have to go, it is when they come to ask, and when they are told that they have been made a covered sports space, obviously, a sports space, in purity, usually wear some costumes. And you tell me about the feasibility, and Mr. Pastor – whom, of course, I thank for the tone and some of the questions he has said – is right, and it is true, the bathrooms could have been made, but it was not meant to be done. A covered step was also requested. Nor has it been done, because the building is subject to protection and, as Mr Pastor has said, although the Bilbao City Council has been asked to reduce this level of protection, it does not want to reduce it. And see if the educational community is possible, which is already saying that at least allow them to pass through the gym so that children do not get wet from going to school until they reach the courtyard. I mean, it's not that they're gone. It's just that what they originally asked for was one thing, that they didn't need the bathrooms, and they were given another, but they were given incomplete. Ma'am, either you didn't understand me or you didn't want to understand me, the deficiencies are not that there are no bathrooms or locker rooms, no; the deficiencies are others. The deficiencies are others, which have nothing to do with the existence of bathrooms and locker rooms. And he says it was executed just like the project. That is, that it was envisaged in the project that these walls would be scalable by children, because it was known when it was done to whom it was directed; that it was planned in the project to put some doors that when you pass hand you cut, that an adult is cut. I didn't touch them. I played like that a little bit and if I get to pass my hand faster, if I get to do what the kids usually do, I cut myself. I assure you, I cut myself, because with just doing it like that, with just playing it like that I cut it, there's already danger of cutting it. And that was planned from the beginning? Then very badly, very badly accepted by the Basque Government knowing who was being directed by that infrastructure. And in any case, if it was planned from the beginning, seeing it later, they had to have solved it. And that is the deficiencies that we say have to be solved before September and that are the ones that prevent Bilbao City Council from receiving the work, because the Bilbao City Council does not prevent it from receiving the work, it is prevented by the deficiencies. It is true that this is the last of a series of initiatives that have been brought here and that we hope that they will be implemented, but, as Mrs Ubera said, it is possible to take a general view that, at least, these issues that have happened here, that have happened in this work, that is, that it is not a good use of public resources, because we are now going to spend money on solving deficiencies, that the company that at the time carried out the work had to have done; that it was not monitored - at least in our opinion - sufficiently by the Basque Government; that there is not a proper forecast of the covered courtyards, as we have all done here, in a land that exactly is not tropical Euskadi, that is, because it rains one day yes and the next also...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u60	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u61	Yeah, I'm finishing up Madam President. I believe that this issue should serve as an example so that it does not happen again in other public centres and we hope that, in this particular case, the deficiencies will be corrected before September, in September they will be able to use it, and that, of course, a feasibility that the department can make in a short time, well, that it is not Buckingham Palace, that it will do so quickly and that it will soon be committed to the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u62	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u63	Thank you. Berriro esaten dut: nik uste dut gaia erreza her, akordioa erreza izan behar her, baina, zoritxarrez, egin duzuen erdibidekoan ikusten dugu who will be doing a feasibility study in six months, to see if they will be able to put the bathrooms and lockers. And then, on top of that, we have to applaud – I don't know how many hands – the Government's Infrastructure Plan, with all the breaches we know are being made. For, look, I did not get up today with the desire to make such transactions either, and that is why we have presented, I believe and say again, a transaction between the opposition groups quite possibly, with points that I think can be understood, with deadlines perfectly adaptable to the legislation that we know is needed in order to be able to bid projects and do a public work in conditions (which has not been done, at least so far). What is true is what Mr Pastor has said, that this is the whole issue of lowering the level of protection of the building. What I do not know is the intention of the Government with its words, which I know is not a department of its party, so I am also more concerned. Do we have to wait for that reduction or the feasibility study that will be done in six months, according to the amendment proposed by PNV and PSOE, will determine that, without lowering the level of protection, you can make baths and locker rooms? Because it's not clear to me if they're going to be done, they're not going to be done or they're going to stop doing it. Of course, we now have equipment that can be used by the Santutxu neighbourhood – besides it needs it, like all the neighborhoods in Bilbao, except those in the center, which are usually quite better equipped. I think that the government in Lakua and the government in Bilbao is the same; I think that agreeing on a work, which is not so great, would be quite simple, and also in a few months' time; I think that they also have a propaganda apparatus that is quite adequate and big enough to be able to sell this work before a municipal election, which is driven by the educational community, not by the opposition, but by the education community in Briñas, by the Aterpe commission; I think they could sell it. I mean, I'd even look at him for his part in fulfilling, like an opportunity. And Mrs.Betolaza, 10 years to receive a badly done work I think they are quite – one is already a lot; 10, quite. How many years have you been waiting in San Adrian for the works promised in that plan and the previous one? Or the Gallego Gorria, the previous one and this one? Or how has it been done, how has the work been executed in Miribilla? The conditions we know, Mrs Betolaza; what has been built we also know; what has been done wrong, we also know it. What takes time to do certain things in this country, we also know. What Basque society needs to be mobilized to achieve certain things, we also know it. Besteak, aitzakiak aitzakia, Betolaza andrea. Finish the play properly. Do the bathrooms and lockers project in 2018 and finish the play in 2019. I suppose now that's what the parliament will prove and that's what we're asking, well, don't ask me, we're asking you to do it in the Book of the Law, as I said before, to keep what's tested. Because the public school here, too, in our country, needs quality infrastructure; it has quality professionals, it has families involved, it has social support, but it needs quality infrastructure. And a subject as simple as this one that we are dealing with today, which has occupied us days and days in this Parliament, which I think is to be seen by the government as having come to Parliament so many times, I think it is one of the elements that can help us to believe the supposed commitment of the Basque Government to public education. If in these simple things we are not able to draw agreements, for something it will be, for something we are already heated by the breaches of this Government. I think it is necessary that, besides me, I would not even like to admit that the work has been mine, I speak of my group, has been of the Aterpe committee. I don't want to wear that medal, I want it done. Not even get a press release, not even make a sign in Santutxu, not even do anything, I want it done. And I believe that the vast majority of the groups in this House are committed to public education, and I believe that the way to prove it is with these things, which seem small, but which are actually defining the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u64	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u65	It's been very interesting that our historic spokesman EAJ has made us the history of the spokesman of the main party that supports the government. So? The question is, what's the Board of Education gonna do? It's gonna fix it, right or not? That's the question. Is the Board of Education responsible for the responsibility? Because it's the only thing you've ever done, Balones fun. For now, Bilbo, I don't know what, and then who else, I don't know, how long we've been up to this subject? How long? I thought it was already done. For how long am I listening to the report of attractions for a couple of toilets and some locker rooms? Since when? A year at least! How about another six months ago? What is this? What kind of management is this? Perfect check? Is it good management of the EAJ? Doesn't look like it. Only what I ask of you: Listen to the education unit. He's a very sensible people. And this committee is doing an incredible job. Listen, it is a very reasonable and rational people, who will not ask more than they need. Planning, what we're not seeing, in every infrastructure, without the new works covered in the yard, without the media, without the gym, I don't know where to go to the gym. What's this? Have you seen, have you been following the sub-Structure improvement plan, what's going on? Planning. We need quality infrastructure. The works. How are you doing the works? At what price do these works come out? Who follows them? Security? And so on. Another interesting ring of work. It's not just the works of cremation, the works of AHT, the works of Ano. What's going on in the works of education buildings? What kind of works are they doing? What kind of infrastructure are they making? Are you gone? We were visiting Lasaret, and it struck me as striking, very striking, very remote from quality. Public revenue management. Is this the effective management? Now we make a part of it, we make another one later, with all the procedure that it brings with it, with all the additional expenses it brings. What are we doing? What we ask is to solve things, to conduct seriousness, severity, and general interest. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u67	Good. We do not come here to ask anyone to applaud (other than whether you like it or not), it is not a question of applauding or whistling, but here there is a problem of origin, which I would not like it to be missed, because it is out of the way, which is the architectural protection of the building, because without that protection the work would have been simpler, cheaper and more adapted to the request of the educational community, but there was no way, and not by political decision, in this case the City Council of Bilbao, but the technical urban planning services of the City Council, which saw neither the need nor the opportunity to raise such protection, because otherwise we would be talking about something else. Man, and it seems that there was a full coincidence, recognized by the educational community, that what they were asking for was an outdoor covered patio, thinking – because they detailed it even in plans – that the windows of the building could be modified, etc., etc., and that would give rise to an adequate cover, which could not be done. And I don't think the positions are that far apart. We're talking about remedying deficiencies. The amendment uses another term, but we are talking about the same thing, we are talking about that certain aspects of completion of the work probably do not have the proper technical quality in their completion, but to that the department has already committed itself, to remedy it before the beginning of the next course. Therefore, there is no impreciseness. And the other subject, forgive me for saying to you, Mr Martínez, is unpossible, even if it seems to you otherwise. A feasibility study, it is true that I agree that we had to be talking, in any case, of a maximum term of six months, because we already know what the building is in, but we also have to make an economic study and sufficient budget allocation, it is not enough to come here and put on the medal and say that the work is done, whatever it costs. That does not work that way in the public administration, or in any other order of life (except in your home, which I suppose you will not do that either), but that can be done within a shorter time frame with all certainty. Therefore, although there is much dramatism here in the speech, the positions are not so far removed. It is basically a question of the completion of the work in conditions, because it is true that there appear to be deficiencies, that can be remediable, and so it has been agreed with the educational community, and that the possibility of incorporating at least one of the two requests of the educational community, which we have defended from the beginning, that are the bathrooms, and that I understand that it is much easier to execute than what was then put on the table and that the educational community itself recognized in the commission that it was much more complicated to execute. But let's get to it, let's get to it, and let's start studying now, in view of the design plan of educational infrastructures in the coming years, that what is done, especially on the outside, is adapted to the circumstances that characterize this country, that the beret is not taken only because it is beautiful, but because it is raining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u68	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Lady Beolaza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Ubera, just one thing: You go through a particular subject to generals, and always everything is bad, and everything is bad, and nothing is right. There's no more to say. As you may have seen in my first speech, I have always spoken of a covered courtyard. At the ground a jostalekuaz aritu naiz behin eta berriro nire lehen part-hartzean. Izan ere, horretaz ari gara ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez As much as you insist, we are not debating a polysports track, but a covered courtyard, because we have to remember once again that what was requested was a "terpe", as the name of the commission created to expressly follow up on this project indicates. As they say, this claim comes from afar, but there is something that must be made clear. It has been a Department of Education led by the Basque Nationalist Party that has prioritized the construction of the Luis Briñas school roof against other applications. And it has been a department led by this party that has bet to make a big investment in this center. And when it is said that it hasn't been connected to the school at the time of the obs, it must be said that at all times the department has kept contact with the committee Atersepes on the surface of the work. When the representatives of the Aterpe committee came to Parliament, they told us about the distance from this new covered courtyard to the existing bathrooms, complaining at the same time about the degree of inclination of the transit ramps between the lower and upper courtyards. By the way, ramps with a gradient of 2 %, totally in accordance with the regulations, and to which the approach was to increase this slope of ramp up to 8 % in order to be able to include the baths in that space. But I wonder, wasn't the complaint the slope of the ramp? And it was proposed as a solution to increase that slope of ramp by which it must be accessed in order to affect the baths. I sincerely believe that we should let the technicians, the people who know about this matter, work. It is the project monitoring offices that say in the execution of the work if everything is done according to the project and according to the compliance of the regulations to be complied with in the actions in schools, but not content with this, we start to talk about deficiencies in the realization of the project. Well, no. The architect of the department has received the work since it is well done in terms of project and compliance with regulations. It is not the City Council of Bilbao that should receive the work, but pass once from the Government to receive it, maintain it and devote itself to cleaning and subsequent maintenance. The deficiencies to which it refers are contained in a document signed by the department's own technicians, dated 15 January, on small scraps to be completed in the work, and which are the same ones that have given the approval at the end of the work. So where are the shortcomings that we are talking about? In all the works there are ends of work and that is what is wrong here calling deficiencies. And I have to tell you that, in the face of the complaints made, Mrs Llanos, in the inquiry of the full control, I myself have made a visit to the centre to check in situ additional measures that are being incorporated on request and seeing that we are talking about a school. I have traveled the ramp from the deck to the outdoor courtyard at the rate of a child and it takes two minutes, maximum. What was it you were telling us because we were loading our recreation in transit? Re-recall that the security requirements are in accordance with regulations and carried out according to the project of execution, but, still, it is this department that has chosen to reinforce these security measures with the solutions that were explained to us here by the counselor. I repeat again: it is not a receipt in what is a normal process in any end of work – of which something has mattered to me to know in recent years – and technical aspects of a end of work turning it into a speaker and a constant alarm. It's very unfortunate, really.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u70	Go to the end of it, Mrs. Beolaza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u71	We shall also maintain our correction, because it is by no means acceptable to the termology used in the correction of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Beolaza. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Euskal populars, the EH Collectors and the middle-direction signed by the Podemos team together. We can vote (the stop) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 37; counters, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u73	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. The fourth point in the subject list, "The other proposal made by the parlamentary "H Collect Group, with an integral plan of carefuling long-continued workers properly." Discipline and final resolution. In turn of the proposed team, Madame of the Kotha, the representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u74	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good noon. We brought back a subject that we discussed last November. So, like today, it is the question of a long-continued labouring question that demands immediate intervention. We have symptoms of a more slow, more probably than we would, of a reconnaissance of employment, of this week's native, and these general data shows positive tentitude; In May, the progress of the rate of unemployment has been gained by over 9500,000 coleters, and it is also positive; it declines, although unemployment is weak. 8641.68 has been lowered in the last month, and 132.801 are those who are in unemployment at the moment in Er-doer. So we're already on the 10 percent of the jobs marked by this government. But as we discussed in the other stages of the development of employment, this development is full of darkness. By the hands of temporary employments, by the prerogative, it is done by unemployment. And I dare say, that to consider the data of a government which aims at a high employment, are those which remain obscure: the balance between the precretion, temporality, the situation of the young, man, and woman... It's dark out there. And among these darknesses, the influence of long-lived unemployment. 2017ko enplegu-txostenak erakusten duen moduan, veracity fatine eta latz beat aurrean gaude. Gutxi gorabehera, 10 langabetutatik 6k urtebete bathe gehiago daramate lan bila eta horietatik erdiek bi urte bathe gehiago. Jaitsera eman bada ere, Statuko beste leku batzuetan bath nabarmen txikiagoa da jaitsera hori gurean, eta iraupen lugeko langabezia-tasari dagokionean nagussi da Erkidego hau: the long-term unemployment rate is at the end of September at 62.81 % compared to 63.70 % of the same period of the previous year. However, in the State this rate has fallen from 61.23 % to 53.02 %, thus slightly widening that difference which already existed and already reaches approximately those six points. Without correcting things, he remarked that he was on his way to enactivation of long-lived unemployment, several times as long as Sara de la Rica, the professor, presented the effects of this report chromata. We explained also the foregoing discussion, and I believe that it is important to repeat again to-day, that all our experts show that our countrymen have certain characters in respect to the trade, and in respect of unemployment: that ours is a very old member of the community, and has a lot of unemployed who are highly qualified. And likewise, that the weight of industry, and a hundred productives more advanced, are opposed to long-continued labourers. And our rates of inactivity are higher. In this sense, even our unemployment has peculiar features; he is very long-lived and deeply focused on people over 45 years. Then By and this kind of unemployment is concentrated on older men. These people over 45 have a long experience of work, but they're very, very, very busy. poor and faulty, or, changed to the demand of the labor trade, a very depredated quantitation. Another aspect is that the lower unemployment rate also makes it more difficult to reduce the number of those who have been seeking employment for the longest time because most of them are situations that can almost be considered structural and which have many difficulties or difficulties added to getting involved in some activity. Sara de la Rica insisted, in the presentation of the report, once again to send a message to the competent institutions and agencies: either active policies are made à la carte or long-term unemployed people will be the great losers of this situation. We are not prepared to accept that this is the case and I would say, by the agreement we have reached, that neither are you. From the same way the European Council has often advised Spain to adopt a special path, considering that the data of Spain is far better than ours at these rates; This is real, right here, ours and ours is raw. We are standing in front of a very distressing situation, I dare say, in front of one of the most crude consequences of the crisis, because the reality behind these fat data is very crude, because there are people who are having a very bad time behind it. And here again I shall not speak of them again, but we saw here also how some and others, all of us, knew what terrible dramas live in this circuit of long unemployment. It was clear to the previous discussion that the feelings of Amaia, Michael, or of Mari José, may be brought here by some others, but that in return we have reality which really requires intervention, that we have experience of life, and that we care to give them an answer. Even then we remembered that Cáritas showed us in one of his latest records one of the pictures of the new poverty and it was just a man who had been a long career of work, and who was then unemployed and couldn't get out of that unemployment. It's the reality of long-range unemployed people. And recently, a few weeks ago, he remarked in the report which he had presented, although there were certain positive signs that the state of those who were suffering from long-continued labours was demoralizing, and that this was doing so in a very obvious manner. We cannot forget that in this discussion it is gradually increasing, so far as this unemployment increases, so far as it increases, so far as it increases the number of unemploymentes. It's already 62.2% of the unemployed people who don't have any protection from the state, many of them have long-term unemployed. And there are, of course, so many women, that, from the difficulties we have against the unemployment of women, the chief physician has spoken of SCRIPTURE, many times more women who are in a state of long-continued unemployment. We believe that public policies to face the unjust state of this size have a great deal to say. We are concerned with the management of the well-being of individuals, which presupposes differences to be subverted, and the production of opportunity. We are allowed to go beyond the limits of the empire, and give opportunity to these people. I said in the previous discussions, I'm not in trouble to repeat here again that I'm never going to say that this subject isn't the government's concern, and I'm not going to say that the government has nothing to do with it. I won't say that. And they will surely tell me, and they told me the previous time, that, as on other occasions, this reality worries you and concerns you, I do not doubt it either, the truth is that I think it is surely a concern of all. In the midst of these collective difficulties which are most difficult to work, the chief physician often repeats, that the long-continued labouring man quotes in words and in the strategy which he has just presented to us, and that one of those collective elements which appear expressly in the strategy we have been able to discuss, but what happens is that mere mention and concern in strategy does not help the situation to the better. And the point is, these people have run out of time. And that they require concrete and effective actions, as the learned tell us. When we had the previous discussion, we still didn't know this 2017-2020 strategy, and we had a review from CES about it, and it seems that our suspicion in this employment strategy of the Government was confirmed: Again, even if the Government accepted it in some way, and in its strategy appeared that the long-continued unemployment is a serious problem, and although it appears as the peculiar and vast weakness of this people, it was no longer marked as a line of action in strategic purposes. The government strategy as yet was the big sack. In the strategy, all those persons with special difficulties, and groups of men, are mentioned, but in a sense in general: they are mentioned, but in a big sack. And the thing is, and we have already proposed, that this great sack, this sack of persons with special difficulties for employment, is very wide. Too wide, we think. And they come in, one by one, more than 55 years of labour, people with long-continued labour, people with incapableness, women suffering violence, people in irregular circumstances, strangers... They all fit in that big sack. And, as we were saying, they are very different, very different, because they have very different prognostic wants, and in this sense, in our opinion, the states which demand very different ways of acting are confounded with this strategy by the Government. And in this sense, what you could see was that several of the plans received in strategy were too general and uncertain. Fortunately, the agreement reached in this House last May regarding the employment strategy of this government, well, somehow corrects this approach and proposes to define differentiated strategies and objectives for each group identified as vulnerable. And that's already a breakthrough and it's a positive thing. The reality is that, despite the concern and the efforts that have been made with regard to the long-term unemployed, we are not correcting the actions and it does not seem that this strategy of intervening in this large block of people in the most vulnerable situation, as a whole, is the one best suited to addressing the problem of long-term unemployment. Long-term unemployment does not respond to general measures against unemployment; the programmes being developed are not effective, and do not always correspond to the reality and needs of long-term unemployed people. I asked the previous time, I didn't get an answer. But if someone can explain to me why, for example, the recruitment of district plans lasts 6 months and does not last, for example, 8, 12 or could not be adjusted, for example, to the years that a person may be left to retire – or I don't know, a thousand stories. What we see is that there is a mismatch between realities, their needs and what is offered to them as an act. The reality is that it gives the feeling that it acts a little by inertia, with strategies that the data already show are not effective, with measures that are not sufficiently evaluated and contrasted. Although the groups supporting the Government argued otherwise in the previous debate, we do not believe that these personalized itineraries are being made, that there is no technical staff specialized in Lanbide, a specialist who can deal with these kinds of situations, who do not give adequate conditions for quality care, so that the counsellors can make their interventions as they should, who are not trained to deal with the emotional part that all this entails. And that makes there important deficiencies. The inclusion companies were also mentioned in that debate, and it is true that this is a very important strategy, but this week we have also seen what forces this Government has or puts on the whole issue of the development of the social and transformative economy, with which we also have difficulties. For us, the need for a change of strategy is already undeniable and palmarious. We need to put in place additional, specific, differentiated measures for the long-term unemployed, as the experts tell us, as the European Commission recommends, as the experience we are having in our actions shows a little. We believe that we are faced with an exceptional, priority, differentiated situation, which also requires a shock response, which responds to that exceptionality, to that differentiation that these situations have. And that's why we were presenting this initiative again today, which is a little bit of the initiative that we had had on the previous occasion with Elkarrekin Podemos and what it raises is that. What it raises is an ad hoc strategy In addition, we propose that in this process of work that needs to be done in this regard, in that ad hoc strategy, The truth is that, after the first discussion on this issue – which was also not new because it was already coming from behind – in which we did not get this initiative to go forward, today we are very happy because, in fact, again the majority of this House joins this need and, in some way, in the...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u75	Go to the end of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u76	In the same vein that they have done, which has been carried out in other places, such as Nafarroa, they join forces to put forward a strategy that has such a shock effect, that can really respond to the needs of these people, to their life experiences. And I think it is really good that, at this point, we have been able to agree, agree that direction, also agree on specificity, agree on that wide range of actions, and I think it will be worth it. You must have honek aukera eskainiko digula denbora gutxian beast bide batzuk jorratzeko and you deserve izango duela strategyk.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u78	Yes, good afternoon. Euskadin iraupen luceko langabetu kopurua kezkagarria da. Egoerari aurre egiteko neurriak ezarri behar dira. I think it is a reality, a serious reality that we have in our Community, that of the long-term unemployed and the long-term unemployed – which I think we recognise all the groups, or at least it was evident in the November debate we had in this House on this issue –. And, therefore, it seems interesting to our group to bring this issue back to the debate with those measures, moreover, that, as Mrs Kortajarena explained, we agreed between the coalitions EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, and that on that occasion they could not be approved and that today it seems that there has been a possibility of rapprochement between the different groups and that, with some minor changes, they will be approved and, therefore, we are pleased with this. The initiative presented by EH Bildu, as Mrs Kortajarena has already explained, was the compromise that we had reached by the two left-wing coalitions of the House in November, and therefore not only did we agree with it, but we would have had no problem in voting for it – in fact, if there had been no agreement, we would have voted for it – but we decided to register an amendment to the whole, which was practically to re-register our original November amendment, to put it back on the table because the only two elements that were not collected in that transaction – although we knew that there was no chance of reaching an agreement on them, but that we could have the opportunity to explain them briefly – and also because this allowed us to be in the negotiations on the different initiatives and, therefore, to know first hand what was being agreed, if we finally reached an agreement with other groups, as has finally happened. I will briefly recall the two elements which are in our whole amendment and which are not included in the compromise. One is to re-emphasize the need, in our view, to return to the indexation of income guarantee income to the inter-professional minimum wage. This is something we will not tire of saying because, as we have already said on more than one occasion, we think that this has been modified ad hocly. Secondly, we also considered it appropriate to talk about unemployment benefits, even if this is a matter for other institutions. Espainiako Gobernuari was required to behar diogu langabezia-prestazioak hobe ditzala. Alderdi Popularrak murriztu ditu Gobernuan egon den bitartean; orine Alderdi Sozialistak egoera konponduko duen edo patronalaren imen egingo dien ikusi beharko dugu. We are confident, we hope that Mr Sánchez's new Government will also be able to address these issues and address them. We knew that these two issues to which I referred had no chance today of being negotiated, we understood that on the subject of GIR the People's Party would not agree and, of course, the parties supporting the Government would not agree, and therefore this would make it difficult for the initiative to move forward. And the second question, already mentioned the other time, was that it was not considered to have so much to do with what we were discussing here today. We think that yes, we thought that this is also a good opportunity, when we asked the Basque Government about this issue, to take advantage of the opportunity to ask those institutions that have competence over unemployment benefits, which have been cut short in recent years and in a rather powerful way. As for the initiative that is finally adopted, we think it reflects what we have been proposing on most of the issues. It is true that we have not talked about a shock plan; we are talking about shock measures and my group, of course, this is good for us, and we have all the elements that we think are important. Individualized attention. We know that it will be said again that this already exists; we think that it does not exist. I share what Mrs Kortajarena has said about why some groups think that it does not exist, but the truth is that I believe that the Basque Government itself has recognised that it does not exist when in the reform it raises on Lanbide one of the arguments it gives us to try to convince us of the famous polyvalence, with which neither the unions nor we agree, because it is precisely that this individualization of attention must be achieved and, therefore, that is not done and I believe that the Government recognizes it. Beyond this debate. The initiative includes the need for increased economic allocations for these issues. We believe it is important that the groups supporting the Government be able to include this issue in an initiative negotiated with us. The subject of social clauses. We have been saying this many times about this issue and others: it seems to us that public administration is a tool or can be a tool, if we decide so, to make it easier for the most vulnerable groups to have access to jobs because they have greater difficulty in accessing them. Administer baliatu behar gara klausula sozialak ezarriz iraupen luceko langabetuen kontratzioa lehenesteko. Therefore, it seems to us that this, although it is not reflected in the language that would have seemed to us opportune to make it more forceful, it is reflected in the initiative and it seems important to us. Then a question that we included in our original November amendment, which was also included in the transaction with EH Bildu, the question of including accreditation criteria for work experience. I also explained the importance we attached to this issue on that occasion. I look very reflected in this. When I started working as a trucker, I didn't require any kind of title for this, and one learned to handle the fenwick. And finally, also the importance of the participation of the different actors who have to give their opinion on these issues. We – you know – usually put a lot of emphasis on the issue of trade unions, but also the other agents. But it is true that although this is signed today, we understand, as I have already explained on other occasions, that the Government is now having a difficult time implementing this: the agreement signed with Confebask, of which we have already discussed, will make it difficult precisely to deal with these issues in the way in which this transaction is said, because that agreement with Confebask speaks of many of these issues (specifically, of training). Therefore, we will see how the Government resolves that hot potato that has on the table and that has generated it itself. Finally, we also think that the role that Lanbide has to play in all this is very important. We think, and that is why it seemed to us important that it be collected, that Lanbide must also be the one referring to the question of the long-term unemployed. Therefore, it seems to us that, finally, the compromise is good, it seems to us that there has been a change in the position of the groups supporting the Government with regard to the debate we had in November, because they were practically the same measures. We, in fact, are happy about this and, above all, we will be happy when these measures can have positive effects and be able to alleviate the situation, which is serious or very serious – as has already been explained – of the long-term unemployed and the long-term unemployed, who have important numbers in our Community. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u79	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u80	Good morning, everyone. We are again discussing a non-law proposal, at the initiative of EH Bildu, on measures necessary to adequately care for long-term unemployed people. An initiative which is identical, as you have said very well, which was endorsed in this plenary last year in November and which, despite then finding that all the parliamentary groups shared a concern about the situation of this group of people, was not able to reach an agreement. I will not go into analysis of why or what were the reasons for not achieving that agreement at that time, that I will leave it for the reflection of each one. I've pulled the hemerotheque and I think it's also clear that there wasn't enough – the same – effort. The truth is that today we have a new opportunity, that today we have been able to reach a consensus and that, of course, as the other speakers who have spoken before me have said, is to be congratulated on that. Months and months have passed since that debate and time has not stopped, nor has the Government acted. Since Mrs Kortajarena's question to the Councilwoman for Employment and Social Policy, from which the GNP which we are again debating today originates, the Government has been, in addition to being concerned, busy in this matter. And I say this – and Mrs Kortajarena will say to me, "I will recognize and you will say it..." –, we say this because it is true: the government has been concerned and busy in this collective and has made progress in the adoption of agreements on this matter. You all know that at that time we did not have but now we do have a Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020, a plan on which we had the opportunity to discuss and agree here, last May, an agreement, I remind you that by unanimity of the whole House, something that could also be repeated today with regard to this collective. A strategic plan that, as the Socialists recalled – and Mrs Kortajarena herself acknowledged last month – combines, on the one hand, a strategic, qualitative point of view, and, on the other hand, measures to achieve objectives that are set for job generation and a job that has to be of quality. It is a plan that contains objectives linked to the improvement of the quality of employment in response, on the one hand, to this detection of the risk of temporality and unwanted partiality – and that then we will have the opportunity to speak from another approach – and to the need to create real opportunities for those who have a lower degree of employability. To this end, this strategic plan identifies specific lines of action that are very similar – let us not be fooled – to those contained in EH Bildu's original PNL. I mean, what are we talking about? It speaks of the initiative and speaks in the strategic plan of individualized care for the unemployed through Lanbide, of promoting collaboration as a tool of work, employment plans, incentives for recruitment and accreditation of knowledge by work experience. Of all these we have references in the strategic plan. So, ma'am. Kortajarena, we are not so misaligned or misguided. And he was hardly surprised a month ago because the groups that we supported the Government could share this approach that was carried out on the actions that you proposed to us and that I have now summarized in these five points. The truth is that I believe that few surprises can be hidden in the position that socialists and nationalists can have in this matter. I say this because we put black on white in a document that we signed when we reached the government agreement that we signed between the two groups and that gives support to the Basque Government. In it, in that document – and it is not difficult for you to find it – the following commitments are reflected. It says in particular: "In policies to combat unemployment, actions will be prioritized to promote and promote the employability of those groups that have the greatest difficulties of integration". And we mentioned young people, over 45, long-term unemployed, women and dependents. Some of these groups have already been discussed in some non-legislative proposal that we have also been able to agree in this Parliament. And we also said in that government pact document that "a specific plan for employment integration will be included through training, integration, local and district employment plans" and that "a reform and modernisation of Lanbide will be promoted for all this, strengthening its functions of guidance, training and integration, with a priority to support in search of employment for groups with greater difficulties and all based on individualized paths of employment integration". I think that all this sounds to you because it is the basis of the non-legislative proposal that you bring to this Parliament. I believe that these commitments are clearly reflected in the Strategic Employment Plan, which recognises, literally, that the expectations of job creation that exist to provide a real opportunity for those who currently have less employability, as is the case with the collective we are discussing today, it is necessary to focus, on the one hand, on an offer of incentives that place them in better conditions than the whole unemployed population and, on the other hand, on offering them a service of value, with a personalized intervention and under the concept of "individualised itinerary". This is said by our government agreement with the Nationalist Party, by the strategic plan and by its initiative. It is also expressly stated that these groups of special vulnerability will benefit from further training or retraining, as well as recognition of professional experience, which, as Mr Jon Hernández has said here, is a matter of concern, because what was not required before now needs to be recognised with accreditation. I therefore believe that we can say without fear of being mistaken, that we are all on the same track and that we all share, both the Socialists, and EH Bildu, as we can, as the Nationalist Group, the same limbs for the development of public policies, effective and efficient so that real opportunities can be given to this group. I think we are all looking in the same direction, and that is why we were able in May to conclude an agreement between all the parliamentary groups in the House, and I think that was also the reason why we were able to reach an agreement today as well. We have offered them the same as we offered them last month. We have no basic differences – and you know it, even if you want to highlight some – and that is why we believe that it is feasible that today we can reach an agreement to extend something that was already included in point 5 of the May agreement and which refers to those five points that I have told you and that Mr Jon Hernández has also been explaining. That is, to point out that when you want to reach consensus, if you start from the same base, if you have the same limbs, you can achieve the same. What we are really asking here are not new measures, and if you do not tell me what are the news of which I have mentioned you are not and you propose to us. Here really what we are doing – we did the other time too – is that in the employment plans that have to comply with that Strategic Plan 2017/2020 are prioritized or supplemented, or concrete measures are strengthened for the long-term unemployed group. And that is what we agree on, and that is what today unanimously will surely ratify this plenary. In other words, we believe that Lanbide has to pay individual attention to this group in terms of orientation, training and mediation. We believe that the collaboration between different public bodies and socio-economic actors is the instrument on which you have to turn, not only the attention to this collective, the measures for this collective, but for all public employment policies; that the employment plans have to be adapted to these people, and Mrs Kortajarena asked – and I would not have to answer it – "Why six months and not eight months?". I ask you, would you solve eight things that don't solve six? Just as the question is whether we should not be even more strategic also from local corporations, which are the ones that have to give the impetus to this issue of local plans – and I have managed in a town hall and I know what it means – to have an annual programming of employment plans, right? Phase one, phase two... So that when the first six months pass you have for the next six, but that also has to be done from the collaboration of those who manage in the municipalities. And it is true that it is a shared effort that will have to be solved. I told you this in May and I will repeat it to you now: it is possible to reach an agreement because, as you have said very well and we will always tell you, we will share the concern and deal with this issue. I don't think it's bad or bad to put it in front of any of the interveners. Simply, when we agree on the goal we are able to all political groups to leave other issues in the dark and get agreements that will benefit those who really need it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u82	Thank you again, Mrs. President of the legislature. Good noon, everyone. Again, the meeting of EH has another proposition to discuss, as well as the measures to provide for long-continued labours, and I repeat, in the preceding meeting, in November, that we treated the same initiative, as has been shown here. We all shared that the long laboured collective is weak, and I'm sure we're still sharing it, because here, too, it's clear here, and they need special attention so that they don't interfere in this serious situation. Then we say today that the government is concerned with the needs of this collective community, and that you acknowledged that both the two spokesmans in opposition to each other, the two of them, the Coltha and the ladies of Llanos, have confessed to you today that it was not enough. It seems to us very important that we all see that this collective is not at all homogeneous, with different needs and conditions: women, men, young men, who are nearer to the vice squad... we can't give them the same answer to everyone, we must have the answers we give to your condition. The Government, as you yourself acknowledged – and it has also been mentioned today – is concerned about this group of long-term unemployed people, because it is true that they run the risk of being chronicled, that this situation sustained over time makes a dent in their self-esteem, which leaves them in a very worrying situation. And in fact, the department is working with the University of the Basque Country, with people who are experts in the field, including Sara de la Rica – who has also been mentioned today and was also mentioned on the day of the inquiry – and with her team, so that we have the most concrete and up-to-date profile of this group in which different people are included with their particular circumstances. For example, within this group it is seen that the qualification of men is lower than that of women. Specific and individualised measures will therefore have to be taken for each of the people who are part of this group. We said it then and we maintain it today: we do not share the need to carry out a specific shock plan for this long-term unemployed group or for other vulnerable groups that we have discussed on other occasions. We find it more appropriate to consider comprehensive measures in the Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020, which will be developed annually with concrete measures aimed at improving the employment integration of this group, measures with their indicators that will allow their assessment and the relevant adjustments in case the measurements so recommend. And as we are essentially unanimous, we have signed the middle term and it seems unanimously accepted. We share, therefore, with the proposer, that the laboured labourers of long duration ought to be attended with exact measures and games, but we believe that this special protection is best adapted to the refuge of the Enplegu and of the Economic Suppertz, if placed in the refuge of the Program, then, by the plans of the year, the exact measures which are required may be more easily developed. We are agreed that the profession must give answer to the several persons who compose this collective profession, to their properties and needs, to all the services and preparations which the profession gives, to fitterance, preparation, intermediation, to work. The profession is involved in the process of improving its management, and it is clear from the first moment that it is necessary to give personal and integrated attention to the several persons who form specific collective care. And this is also the improvement of Professional management. All this joins at the first point. Considering the work of this Collector, the co-ordination of the co-ordination and social influence of public institutions, the development of the place, and the actual reality of the region, is the second point of the fundamental initiative required. It's always been fun, the whole thing, the whole thing, the company's office and the Department of Police Society. So that this point is also prepared to appear in the employment plans of the year, and to improve as much as possible. The third of the points requested by the proposer group, which is reflected in the transactional, is the implementation of new employment plans adapted to these people, understanding our group that what is needed are new measures contained in these annual plans, with the aim of creating and facilitating permanent employment opportunities and incentives for recruitment, thereby increasing the number of economic items. Likewise, the groups that support the Government are prepared to request that consideration be given to the inclusion of social clauses to recruit long-term unemployed persons in public contracts, provided that the rules permit, and we have put this into the fourth paragraph. As regards the criteria for proving the knowledge acquired by workers with their work experience, we agree and have already taken steps in this regard. It is an issue that takes time on the agenda of this Parliament and also of this government – and I would even dare say that of previous governments. It seems to us necessary, as Mr Hernández pointed out in his particular question, that many of the people who form this collective, with enormous work experience in specific jobs, can prove their knowledge precisely by practice, by experience, even if they lack a specific degree. And that is why we are ready to continue working in this area, which is being done, but we are ready to go deeper into it. And thus it joins the last criterion that is to be entered into the planets. At the second point of the middle, the demand is made for interaction, that these measures of entry may be opposed to experts. And for the last time, as we are all concerned with the subject, we are engaged to ensure the income of money by considering the needs of this poor collective community in the reform of the rent. Then only give thanks to all for the will which has been manifested to the agreement, and to the enterprise which we now accept, that it may have a direct and effective influence on long-continued labours. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, the truth is that listening to the groups that support the Government and taking into account, on the one hand, that everything is being done and, on the other hand, that, on the other hand, it also agrees with all the issues raised in the initiative, what I do not know is how it was not unanimously adopted, and it would not have had to be brought here again today, because, indeed, this initiative was already being debated, and the truth is that the arguments and reasons that I am going to put forward are the same ones I said at the time of the debate. We had not tabled an amendment, because at the time we were already in agreement with the initiative that has been reiterated and, therefore, again in agreement with it. True, we all share that employment is the first problem that concerns citizens – the Basques and the rest of the Spaniards as well. Unemployment is the biggest concern. This concern is even more acute in a group such as the long-term unemployed group, because, of course, the longer it takes to find employment, the harder it is to re-enter the labour market. The crisis has aggravated the situation of this group, has led to serious risks of chronisation and, therefore, of social exclusion. At that time, when this issue was discussed, we had the employment report for the first quarters of 2017 and now we have the whole of 2017. And it is true that it is pointed out that the recovery of employment has been important in Euskadi, but, nevertheless, it says that the chronicity of long-term unemployment continues to be maintained and that chronicity is reduced in Euskadi much more slowly than it is reduced in the rest of Spain. In the May data we see that there are 122,801 people who were unemployed. It is true that with respect to April it has been reduced by 1.68%, but below the Spanish average, whose reduction in unemployment has been 2.5% – the figure for Spain as a whole, lowest at unemployment levels since December 2008. In Euskadi, by territory, the lowest decline has occurred in Álava, below the average of Euskadi and, moreover, on a question that has already become habitual: Álava is the slowest in terms of the recovery of employment. The number of long-term unemployed, as Mrs Kortajarena said, remains very high. More than 60% of the unemployed have been unemployed for more than a year. It is clear that the longer it is, the more difficult it is, as we said, this incorporation into the world of work. At the moment, 75,000 people are in this situation, which requires action and commitment from public policies to find a way out of these people. As mentioned here, the professor of economics, Sara de la Rica, in that labour report which, as I say, already covers the whole of 2017, what comes to say is that long-term unemployment is becoming structural in Euskadi. That it is true that in 2017 three points were dropped –from 64% to 61% – but Euskadi remains at the forefront of this type of unemployment. That in the Spanish average – I have the latest data, which do not differ, but are almost at the same time as those presented by Mrs Kortajarena – is 42.8%, then we see that the difference between the Spanish average long-term unemployment rate and that of Euskadi is getting bigger. And as has been said here, Mrs De la Rica was textually saying what those causes were, right?, which is mainly, as she said, structurally, that the high cycle does not remedy it and that it was therefore necessary to use additional measures for the return to the labour market of these employees. He also points out that Euskadi has an ageing population, chronically unemployed people with great difficulties in finding jobs that do not require a high qualification, because the greater weight of the industry in Euskadi and a more advanced productive fabric plays against these unemployed. The profile – given by the teacher – is that of elderly people with low qualifications who have been unemployed for between three and four years and, therefore, also gave us the solution. What was to be done? Comprehensive measures, specific measures and specific training measures. Then this also gave us a clue where he had to go. The amendment – and reference has also been made in the interventions – said that the Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020 appeared, and it is true, on axis five, in incentives for job inclusion, those incentives for the job integration of disadvantaged groups already appear, and on the three there is also the training and insertion of people at risk of exclusion, among which they are also. True, they appear in those plans, as they have appeared in previous plans and strategies. That is to say, the treatment of the long-term unemployed is not new either, in all plans there has been, because, as we say, it has been a collective that has been concerned. And we do not deny that it has concerned the various leaders of the Basque Government, but perhaps we must also consider whether a self-amendment by the Basque Government should not be made. Seeing that there are certain measures that have not just taken effect, that the situation remains unresolved, different measures need to be put forward in these annual employment plans. And this was also pointed out by the European Commission in its recommendation to Member States that it should implement appropriate measures to achieve this goal of incorporating long-term unemployed people back into the world of work. Measures that should be aimed at designing personalized plans, with also personalized itineraries, with concrete and individualised actions. It is also true that they appear in the Strategic Employment Plan and are subject to specific treatment. It has been said here: specific measures are being put in place to try to lower the figures, re-training routes, work through the integration companies, incentives for recruitment. It's true. All these measures are collected, but the truth is that they do not seem to be enough because the data, the figures are still there and it seems that the long-term unemployment has been overtaken in Euskadi and we do not get it down to the rate that the rest of the unemployment is going down. For this reason, we believe that these measures – call it a "shock plan", call it a "shock measures" – seemed to us to be correct and, as I say, we had not amended the original initiative. It seems to us that the points contained in the compromise amendment are appropriate, in the sense that they also call for this joint action between all the institutions, that every effort should be made to achieve this objective, and that in the end each institution should not lose its own efforts and public resources. The fact that, as Mr Hernández has said, there are going to be specific, higher items to give incentives to recruit these people also seems to us to be relevant and appropriate. We believe that through the social clauses, which is an instrument that the public institutions – always within the legal framework, as Mrs Arregi said, and I agree – but that through these social clauses included in public procurement can be used to achieve the job integration of this collective, which is more difficult, at best, to achieve such integration in the private enterprise than through public procurement. And, also, the question of accreditation of work experience. Indeed, it is true that now in many companies, in many situations, a degree is required to be accredited, which probably goes far beyond that degree, but sometimes it is necessary to reflect it through the accreditation of a degree that is necessary from the public administrations to provide facilities for it to take place. That is why I believe that the compromise amendment that has been reached is an appropriate amendment, a relevant amendment, and what we hope is that it will actually be implemented and that we are talking about much lower long-term unemployment rates next year. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u85	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Reply's turn. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u86	Yes, Congressman, thank you. I, Mrs. Castellao, shall not enter into the direction of the previous differences. Each must look in his head, and then I looked at mine, I said what I had to say, and you ought to do. And every one will have to consider also why, when he is in opposition, he protects and encourages the same initiative, and when he is not in opposition, he does not vote for him for him in less than a year. But that's what everyone has to study. And to clarify a little thing, I would like to clarify that the possibility of this agreement has been offered by us – and that is so – not by you. This is not a matter of intention, it is not, in a certain sense, a dispute about things that are not received or received; the intentions are there, the prioritys are marked out, and things are received, but this is a matter of efficiency. If everything is being done, if, as Mrs. Castelo tells us above all, everything is being done, everything is being reflected in that strategy, if absolutely everything is directed in this direction, I believe that the government, then, should reflect very seriously on the results it is achieving. It should reflect very seriously because, as we have already said, we are at the forefront of the long-term unemployment rate. With this, if everything is done, if everything is well-directed, if everything is so, I do not understand in those conditions how you sign an amendment that comes to complete something, if everything is done. Anyway, and in any case, I think there are a lot of things to think about, I think there are a lot of things, because we are told by the expert people, because we are told by the people who are living this situation, because we are reflected by the data and because we see what difficulties Lanbide has every day – and its professionals – to get ahead. There is a process of modernization of Lanbide that speaks precisely of this kind of thing. You told us that all these elements are reflected in the employment strategy. The question is precisely that, which are collected, but they are collected within a very large sack, which is that of care for people with employability difficulties, in that sack of vulnerable people. And, as I have already explained, there are very different realities, very different situations. And we are also told by the experts with whom Mrs Arregi told us that you are collaborating and working that we have to explore other ways to give a solution to the reality of long-term unemployed people. And that is what we have proposed in this initiative, which proposes to incorporate a new ad hoc ad hoc action line. In any case, we're satisfied with the agreement we made today. We think it's a very good deal. That this legislature is a long-requested agreement, that it has been demanded by different enterprises, whether it be a shock or not, that it is to take a special initiative forward and to-day will continue. We are pleased that the agreement reached today, together with the agreement reached on caring for the younger people, and that agreement to complement the 2017-2020 Employment Strategy, because, with all this, we have succeeded in complementing, redefining, realising and redefining employment policies that had important shortcomings, and this will allow us to land a employment strategy that responds to the needs and challenges we have as a country, which is what we are really concerned about. And all those agreements, which have also been adopted by a large majority, come to mark a very clear direction, which we also understand is what it has to be, and it is that of using public policies, with public leadership, to facilitate the good living of people living here and to offer the possibility of being happy, of having opportunities for decent lives, and that is what employment policies should facilitate. With this in mind, we are more than happy with this agreement and with the whole passage of the range of agreements that we have achieved, which allow for the redirection of very poor employment policies of this Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u88	My group, in fact, has already expressed those issues that we believe are either not properly or not sufficiently done, but it is true that we are not so interested in this debate today as to whether these measures are new or not new. We are interested, because I believe that this is the constructive thing, which is continually acknowledged that we have a problem and that we must therefore act. And it seems that we agree on the measures, beyond that some consider that they are being done and others consider that they are not being done or that they are not being done enough. But there is an argument made by Mrs Kortajarena which I think is very interesting: if the groups agree on the measures to be taken and the groups supporting the Government consider that this is already being done, but the results are not positive, because we will have to reflect all the groups on what this is about. Of course, each will have to do so from the role and responsibility it has and beyond the parliamentary groups, the government, composed of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, will have to reflect on this. I believe that this may have to do with the problems we have and that we do not solve with regard to the long-term unemployed alike having more to do with how and not with what. If we agree on a series of measures that are easy to collect, even in government agreements, it may have more to do with how those measures are implemented. That as an element of reflection. I did want to point out two issues which I think will make it difficult for agreements like this to be put into practice and therefore have to do with just how. One of them I have already pointed out (or both) in my previous speech. In the agreement, as in other agreements we have reached, there is talk of the need for the participation of the actors. I once again insist that this agreement that has been signed with Confebask unilaterally affects these issues and will prevent these issues from being addressed with trade union agents as they should be addressed. And a second issue is the reform of Lanbide. If the Government insists on the reform of Lanbide in the terms in which it is putting it, especially with the question of polyvalence, it will surely be difficult for the individualized attention to which we refer all the groups that we sign this transaction to be carried out with good results. Therefore, it may not have so much to do with what, on what issues we put the groups on the role in this transaction, but above all, on how they will be put into practice. Moreover, we are, of course, happy with the agreement and hope, as I said earlier, that this will be carried out with good results, because many people depend on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u89	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u90	Mrs Kortajarena, I am not going to argue with you for the reasons or reasons why we do not agree. I have told you in my first speech: I leave it for the reflection of each one. And I'm not going to argue about who offered who. I mean, I think there have been exchanges, you know it and I know it, and I know perfectly well that we have managed to reach an agreement because it has insisted on that possibility. And there's something I don't think you're getting. That is to say, since that debate in November and that report by Sara de la Rica, which you already used in November, there is a new document. And it's a strategic document that you do is mark the direction. That strategic document did not state that action was being taken on a permanent basis. It is a document that marks the strategy, the direction we have to follow. And I think that's where we don't have any differences either. We believe that in this particular group and in others of the many measures that come in this strategic plan and that we have been able to agree to prioritise, strengthen, to complement, through the annual plans, which, by the way, are the ones that have to comply with that strategic plan, and we will see whether these measures that are reflected in the strategic plan and that we say that they are prioritized through these non-legislative proposals, have or do not have their results. You must remember that last month we also agreed that through the foresight and evaluation of the The results of the different programmes, we will see if we have to correct the course. But it is true that I will – and I will always – argue that the measures that are put on the table today are not new to what is already in place in strategic terms and what is somewhat the direction that both the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Party took as the basis for their government agreement. And I say it from the absolute conviction. And you have it in a document that was signed already in 2017 and you have a strategy. Mrs. Llanos said so. The clear strategy that captures it and then annually will have the concrete actions, and it will be in those concrete actions where we will then have to see whether the results are the ones we hope for or the ones we want. But nothing happens because it is not aimed at orientation, training, encouragement, to accreditation, to individualised itineraries, to cooperation and coordination, to employment plans, to incentives... It's just that out of all that there's been no other measure, but it's that no one says they have to be Different. What we believe is that we are all oriented in the right direction. And that's what I was trying to move. I mean, we're driving the boat right now, not at the end of the destination, but we're heading to where we have to go to get real opportunities for these especially vulnerable groups. And it's true – I was telling Mrs Agirre and I'm going to remind her too – that the long-term unemployed are not only in that chapter, in "long-term unemployed", because that long-term unemployed may be over 55 and, then, we already have a special feature: you are over 55 and long-term unemployed. Or she can be a woman and a long-term stop; or she can be young and a long-term stop. Be careful to try to say that the long-term unemployed... Well, that's why the subject of individualized orientation. They said, "It's important what we do and how we do it." We are clear about "how we do it" and we say it whenever we have a chance: it can only be done from collaboration and from inter-institutional coordination, because these measures can be led here by the Basque Government, but not only by the Basque Government. And here a fundamental element are the local entities, are the municipalities, are the local agencies of regional development. It also has much to do with the success of some of the actions, which, by the way, can be very well targeted at these groups, such as local and regional employment plans. Therefore, I will conclude my point by thanking the effort to reach agreements, leaving that which does not unite us, but taking into account that we start all from the same base. We're going to give you an option for this strategic plan in your annual plans to offer some results, and if those results aren't what we expect, we're going to correct the course of the ship, but the ship knows exactly where it has to go.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians mustn't speak. Basque Popular. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u92	Yes, Madam President, with your permission, from the seat. The truth is that, as Mr Hernández said, Mrs Kortajarena said, we do not say, and I believe that nobody here has said, that the Basque Government has done nothing, that it has not planned anything, that it has not thought anything, but, obviously, the figures are there and it is not us, they are reports of bodies, as in this case the UPV, and with Sara of Rica at the head, those who have been saying that we have to carry out different issues, that we have to take different measures because really the long-term unemployment begins to be structural in Euskadi. Obviously there are different collectives within the long-term unemployed, Mrs Kortajarena has also said so. It affects men more than women of a certain age. So, of course, this is what it is all about, that within that collective individualized measures are also taken according to the typology of each of these groups of long-term unemployed. But, Mrs Castelo, hearing you say that everything is in the plans, that everything is being done and that everything was in the government agreement, I really do not know why you have signed this compromise amendment. Nothing happens, nothing happens by not signing it and staying out, because really with the justifications that you have given, nothing is necessary because everything is being done well, but really the long-term unemployment rate that we have is what we have. Let us hope that what was already being done will be done better and that, as I said in my first speech, within a year those long-term unemployment rates will be much lower and we are at the head precisely because of the decrease and not because of the number of long-term unemployment that we have at the moment, which is how we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u93	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote EHG, unite with Podemos, Eukal Socialists, and the middle-line correction that the Eunciators have signed. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u94	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Momentu honetan osoko billura eteten due 16:00ak art. It was two and twenty-one in the afternoon. At four o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u95	Let's start with the fifth point on the subject list: "The Moment, the Forest, introduced by the members of the Househouses and the legislatures of the EH Collectors, concerning the conditions and rights of domestic workers. Discretion and final resolution." Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Houseland, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u96	Yes, thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. This force has a deep problem with care. In order to support life, we did not reflect and take care about what is necessary to place men in the centre. These jobs are still on their backs. The support of this society is still on her shoulders. This was clearly reflected on the feminist strike on March 8th. What we saw there was beyond an emergency strike became a watch-out strike. Yesterday I had a chance to be present in an interesting book about Irungo and the sandalards, and there was a long talk there, and a man's awkwardness about what was the effect of leaving all these women around him, about the care of men. There have been a strike for some to observe it, but here, do we see what it would have done if we were to make women plan, if these women would cease to work? More than one of these problems has been said to remain in the privacy of the personal and the home. It's in personal concerns. But no. From this point of view, I mean clearly that personality is political, and that it is very little of the public that maintains the disputes about the work. "... "E el proceso socialmente geneantado es la acumulación de capital." Esto inhibe una responsabilidad coctiva en el soutenimento de la vida y, más aún, establece una consente sobre state, que termina resolviendos iromarente inters feminidas evisilidas, hooti est. mp. mp. mp. mp................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And to this is to resist, even with a small grain, which we shall endeavour to make with this proposal. The cultivation of the domestic workmen is not new in this legislature, nor is it in this legislation. We began political Kurtus together with another proposal from Podemos and the diagnosis of domestic workers, which we mention once more in the middle we have made. It's too late, but again we ask the Government to bring this into the legislature. Let's hope there's a chance we can fill it this time on schedule. It is also the responsibility of public institutions to look after people. Everyone has a right to be guarded, and we need strong public services to do so. Offering worthy public services we need structure to improve the quality of life, to share custody as it is now. Leaving watch on women to make a decent job. It's necessary to acknowledge social value to homework and care work. In what is so important to pay the bank debt, we have the real social debt with women, because historically we have answered the dependence and the need of people. Hence we demand that this diagnosis should work upon reflection and precautions to take care of itself, with the request of a special plan. Let's look at the results, examine our current policy, and work out a proper public policy. Besides the diagnosis, we have collected several other points in this vast deal. On the one hand, we've included several themes to operate on Osalan. But they don't come from heaven either. On the one hand, Osalan asks us to improve our attention protocols along with Osalac, where there's an opportunity for an opening in Osalan. We had the appearance of the workers in the Biscay who died here at the request of the Basque Country and they informed us that the data on the current works are very far from reality, because of the difficulties that are being accused by Osalan himself... And, knowing of this, Osaality, for the sake of its opportunity in their training, is indispensable to form itself around the working-room of domestic workers, and to produce protocols. But this proposition, this suggestion of working with Osacides, is not new. Named after a received proposal in the previous legislation. Tall cual. Do we have to go about legislation to ask for such things? We hope you don't, and we hope there won't be any reason to repeat it this time. Besides this, in the same scene mentioned, in the appearance of the workers of the Biscare House, he was able to mention a guide made about the labor strips. Here too we could talk to the lady doctor about it. They regarded this guide as a disgrace, and it was no less. Nevertheless, in its re-formation and working, we insist on the necessity of strengthening this work, and add to this medium the free extension. Because we see that, besides doing so, it must be in the hands of workers and employers. And we didn't stay here. We brought back from the Basque Country a proposition of another kind than the rest of the way, which required the workers of the house not to be excluded from their vigilance for care's purposes. We have often repeated that we are not all agreed in this, because it is serious for us to exclude domestic workers from this help. Nevertheless, an agreement between the groups supported by the government and the population of the Polula party asked him to make an examination about its appeal and influence, and we are waiting for it. And not just us: there are also many women who are rejected from this help. We've put a deadline on this other proposition, but we think it's urgent to make a decision. To conclude, we have comprehended two points, which, perhaps, have most been supposed to be the greatest part of our work. On the one hand, Osalani seeks to appreciate the consequences of this research, and by which it follows that the improvements of the La Lan Viewers are included. For at the present day inspection has been accused of having a blank space in regard to the employment authorities, and it is necessary to conform to the present campaigns, under the consideration of the particularities and difficulties which this profession has in view. She accused him of your long-lost hairs. Several times they have been shown, but no strong measures have been taken against these agencys. Why? Well, it's the system that's got today and we were talking about helping ourselves to do this huge problem that we were talking about at the beginning. Because they do. On the other hand, not only are we able to control the careful course of these agencys, but it is essential that they should start the leadership of the profession agreed on in 2011. The proposition, which we place as our last point, exercises it. The means must be established in order to place this public function in the first line, and therefore to see how different measures are being developed, we have also asked them to come to account for it at regular intervals. I want to thank for the position shown by all the groups to agree on all these points, by those who have made corrections, and who are ready to accept them, who have constantly nourished this proposition which we now agree with in unanimous agreement. And I'm happy because I think the deal we have in hand is important. But let's not deceive ourselves, it's not new points. Today is a proposition that is based on multiple agreements. So we all need to make sure they start now. We'll follow the Basque People clearly from the gathering and continue to work hand-to-hand with the house workers, because we're aware that this work is indispensable, and because it's necessary to take precautions in front of the great debt we've got. It is important to stress and take into account that domestic employment is the most prone to all kinds of abuse, and we will continue to work in this regard. We are dealing with hypocrisy, we know that these women are working in this sector, we are interested in them being in this sector because with their presence they help solve a very important part of the growing demand for care, but we invisible them, says Liz Quintana. I make his words mine. Don't let them stop doing these jobs, so we'll be aware of what they mean. Let us not stop working in this Parliament so that this problem can be seen. From Euskal Herria Bildu, we will not stop. Martha Gellhorn said in 1937, "There is never enough money for life, but there is always money for nuclear and conventional weapons, and for our immense military installations." Let's change our priorities, change our course. Let's put life in the middle. living, worthy lives, happy lives in the centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u98	Good afternoon. Indeed, it is not a new issue, and the truth is that I wish I had not had to come to this House once again with an initiative like this. I wish it had not been necessary, but the truth is that it is an old issue that not only has not just been resolved, but, in our opinion, at least, it does not seem to be progressing in positive. Etxeko langileen lan-baldintzak oraindik kezkagarriak dira, nahiz éa Legebiltzarrean arazo hauek sarritan mahai sheneratu tellen. This issue has been on the political table for a long time, and in previous legislatures too, there have been testimonies of people, women, mainly workers in this sector, explaining the problems that this sector has, which are special problems. And yes, perhaps of particular difficulty in resolving them, but, therefore, special reason for us also to make efforts from the special institutions to address and resolve them. That is why we have made different initiatives in this regard, because the truth is that, as we have already commented on before, the situation of domestic workers because it is really regrettable and they need some kind of progress that can make them see that there is hope, because I can fully understand the frustration that they can feel, especially the organized collective, the part of domestic workers that are organized in defense of their rights, when over and over again they demand what they are going through and see that there is no great progress in improving their conditions, not even if we are able from the public administrations to enforce the law, because that happens. The labour rights of female domestic workers are not respected, as in many other sectors, and the law is not enforced more overwhelmingly than in other sectors. That is why we had a broad agreement with the initiative presented by EH Bildu and, well, it has come to a compromise between different groups that we find interesting, it seems important to us, but that, of course, in our opinion it has to be a last touch of attention to this Government so that it can do a number of things that it can do, because then we can discuss or discuss other issues that affect this collective, that perhaps from our autonomous powers we cannot do, but there are issues that can be done and that in our opinion are not being addressed with sufficient determination. The initiative addresses an issue that is important and that I believe that in some way we can make progress in it from within our competence. This is what it has to do with dealing with the detection of accidents at work. We know the legal limitations that you may have, for example, Labour Inspectorate in this regard, also the difficulties that Osalan may have in this regard, but that is precisely why we think that both Labour Inspectorate and Osalan should make a special effort with this particular sector and address a special strategy on this issue. It is included in the transaction to call for the prevention guide that Mrs Etxebarrieta has commented. We proposed three months, it is proposed in the fourth trimester – if I remember correctly. Well, we're not going to fight for dates when it's proposed to bring it in this year, but this guide is coming too late. This guide could have been done a long time ago, and it has already been said, but I think it is important to remember it because the department has already drawn up a guide and, as was mentioned in the appearance, it was a veritable dip. Not only was it poorly crafted, it was not only noted that it was crafted without real knowledge of the reality of the domestic workers sector, but it also had legal errors or legislative misconceptions in the guide itself. I think the department was aware that it was not a good guide, to the point that the guide did not have any kind of dissemination, and I think that, if I remember correctly, it could almost not be found even on the website itself – and better, because then seeing how hot the guide was, because the truth is that better. We think that since that appearance until here there was plenty of time for that guide to have been drawn up, but, nevertheless, for the fourth quarter we assume it will be without fail. And the diagnosis. The diagnosis also comes very late. This plenary approved that the diagnosis be made in nine months – which I think is a nice time to elaborate it – and the nine months, if I remember correctly, expired in December 2017. It's June 2018, it looks like it's coming, but it hasn't arrived yet. It is true that the Labour Counsellor has explained that they have encountered special difficulties in being able to elaborate it, she has explained that they want to elaborate it well, she has explained the decisions they have made and the methodology they decided to elaborate it well, and that is why it is delayed. And those explanations, well, they've given them, but the truth is they come too late. Well, we can be patient, and if we now approve, also with the groups that support the government, that for the fourth quarter, because we are also willing to wait, but, as I said before, I think this has to be the last touch of attention on this issue if we do not want to generate more frustration in the workers in this branch. We proposed in our amendment that an action plan be drawn up. Logically, an action plan must be drawn up once this diagnosis is known, but must be drawn up. It is difficult to conclude from the diagnosis that there is no need to draw up an action plan, when we all know the unfortunate situation in which this group of women mainly works. Therefore, we proposed – and this has been included – the elaboration of an action plan, once the diagnosis is known, which in our opinion has to have two concrete objectives: to improve the working conditions of domestic workers and also, which seems obvious, to enforce the law. In other words, women domestic workers at the moment are in working conditions that are not only bad, but in many cases even legality is not respected, and therefore a public administration has an obligation to enforce that legality. We often hear in this House that the law must be enforced and the law must be respected. For we believe that the public administration is obliged, on a subject like this, to place special emphasis and to ensure that the law is effectively complied with and that at least the working conditions laid down in the law are respected. Finally, the question of Lanbide is also included. This issue is also important to us. We believe that the fact that Lanbide is the reference to establishing employment relations between employers and employees can bring two good things. Firstly, to avoid abuses by placement agencies at this time, which are serious abuses. And, on the other hand, we are sure that that would ensure a better and better knowledge of both the duties and rights of women workers in the sector and those who decide to employ a domestic worker. We therefore agree with the initiative, the compromise that has been reached. We think that a number of the issues raised here which, as Mrs Etxebarrieta has said, many of them have already been adopted in this Parliament on different occasions and have not been implemented. And, therefore, we think that this has to be – and we also ask the Government that is listening to it – the last touch of attention on this issue and on this very special sector, which is in these very unfortunate conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u99	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u100	Yeah. Thank you, President. Today we are discussing the working conditions and rights of domestic workers. It has already been said that this is not the first time we have discussed this subject in this Parliament. In particular, we also discussed it with the initiative that took place at the plenary session on 2 February and 30 May last year. It was also discussed in the previous legislature and, on the basis of a 2011 parliamentary mandate, a study of female domestic workers in the Basque Autonomous Community was carried out, which is the last study carried out. In my intervention in February of last year, I referred to how legislation concerning female domestic workers had changed over the past few years, being the first regulation of 1985 – the fundamental amendment of which occurred in 2011 – and which initiated the steps of equalizing the rights of female domestic workers with workers of the general social security system. And we are also talking at that time about the importance of ratifying ILO Convention 189 and ILO Resolution 201. They recognize domestic work as any other work that ensures that domestic workers are treated on an equal footing with other workers in each country. And in the compromise amendment that we then signed with the support of the Nationalist Group, Basque Socialists, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos urged the Government of the State to proceed with its ratification. The People's Party did not support the compromise amendment at this point, but it was approved with the support of the other political groups in the House. Then we said it had been six years and it was still unratified. There are already seven of us who are lagging behind without that agreement being ratified. On the other hand, and given that the last study on the working conditions of female domestic workers was in 2011, the Basque Government was urged to carry out a diagnostic report on the situation of female workers in the Basque Autonomous Community and to give them a period of nine months. Secondly, since Osalan, in coordination with other departments of the Basque Government involved in this matter, a study has been drawn up to define more clearly the dimension of the problem, to compile the steps that have been taken to date by the different institutions and to propose measures to be implemented. No time limit was set for this study in that transactional. As the Commissioner for Labour and Justice said at the plenary session on 25 May, although the Government in general was urged at first, and the third point in Osalan, within the Basque Government, agreed that the two should be carried out together from the Basque Institute for Safety and Health at Work, from Osalan. They immediately started, what happens is that they soon saw – and it has been shown on many occasions – that it had a great complexity, which meant concretely and defined all the groups of people working in the home to make the most of that opportunity. And in addition, it began at first with Osalan's own means, it was seen that within Osalan the information they had was more limited and it was considered that it could be much more positive to be made from the Department of Sociology and Social Work of the Faculty of Communication Sciences of the UPV, transmitting to them also the methodology that was wanted to be followed and the scope of it. In addition, under this methodology, it was requested, when commissioned, to have open participation in the sector of representative groups of female domestic workers and employed persons, also taking into account statistics from the National Statistical Institute, the Eustat and various studies on the subject. From this work we will get the reports, the diagnosis and the measures we have to take. But, on the other hand, it is added, on 11 May, something that at first was not involved. There's a new point in those studies. It is also responsible for assessing the effects of the suspension of article 14.3 of Decree 177/2010 of 29 June 2010 and of article 4.3 of Decree 31/2015 of 17 March 2015 on the rights of domestic workers, access to benefits in the event of leave or reduction of working hours for care work, and for taking appropriate measures resulting from the results of such analysis. Therefore, the study, initially requested in February, is expanded on that date and this study is also being launched. Along with the other study that had also been requested, which had already been launched earlier, the latter, rather than a sociological approach, had to have a more technical approach from the law. It was also needed, said the adviser the other day, budget item for it and included within the 2018 budgets, and in addition to a multiannual form, in order to be able to repeat in successive years the realization of them. Once these steps have been taken, both studies are now well advanced. As soon as they are completed, they will be referred to this Parliament. On the other hand, he referred to the Guide to Occupational Safety and Health. This guide is now complete. What is missing is the editing and translation of that guide to the Basque. It can therefore, of course, be ready shortly. And that has been done without the need for that obligation to be established or demanded. On the part of the Elkarrekin Group We can, on the part of Mr Hernández, make it clear that the deadlines must be met. For example, in this case, the guide previously had no time limit, it had no requirement, but as the previous guide had been done at the end of the previous legislature, very quickly and the result was not good, for things obviously have to be done well. And since it was seen that this guide was incomplete, inconcrete, not very complete and it was much better to do a new one, that is what is being done right now by the Department of Labour and Justice. And, in addition, it will be brought in within the time frame that has been set, without any kind of problem. That is why we are very pleased with the compromise amendment that we have signed. I believe that although within this amendment there are deadlines for bringing the guide, the diagnosis, the study within the last quarter of this year, of course, everything is probably going to be here. The deadlines will be met. But I have already pointed out throughout my speech why and the difficulties that have been encountered in meeting the first deadline for one of the cases in the February transaction last year. On the other hand, other new and new points are included, such as the revision of the Osakidetza protocols, of care and identification of accidents from Osalan, together with Osakidetza, because we are also aware that this obviously represents an improvement because when there is an accident at work and there is a communication of the accident at work, that accident is recorded in the official calculation, but through an improvement of those protocols by Osakidetza, accidents that have not been considered at first such, and there can be recovered an accident that, at best, otherwise would not have been communicated of the realization of the same. I believe that this is also positive and, in addition, other important points are inserted regarding Lanbide, within the intermediation – which I also believe is positive – and also the reference to the fact that if the study being carried out, once completed, we see that we have to review the campaigns of the Labour Inspectorate, which are already in place for a long time, but that we need to revise them in order to improve them, because within the next three months, if we consider that such a review is necessary, we will do so. That we see from the data that there is no need to make any revision because it is worth what is being done, because it is not done and it is already done, but if we see that, in fact, they bring other possibilities and can be improved, because it is put in and done, that I think that is positive for the sector in any case. Of course, I would like to thank all the efforts made by the groups today to reach this compromise. My group also agrees that this transaction is good and I am convinced that the deadlines will be met. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u101	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u102	Thank you, ma'am. President, Chief, Congressman, good evening to all of you. Esan bezala, martxoaren 23year-old Etxebarrieta andreak gai honori buruzko interpelazioa egin zion salilburuari. Interpelazio horren ondoriozko mozioa lanzen dihardugu gaur, Etxebarrieta andreak uste duelako weretzun hori ez zela nahikoa izan. It was a ez zela nahikoa. Mrs Etxebarrieta, and from the sensitivity to this reality, which I believe we all share, was the answer really insufficient? Because today I wanted to focus on this issue. Did you really see – Mr Hernandez too – a lack of determination? That's why I I'd like to go back to the day of the interpellation. You She asked the counsellor for an explanation on three issues. An explanation on the Guide to Safety and Health at Homework. Explanation also on the two studies, both contained in non-legislative proposals, which have already been discussed, adopted in this Parliament. One on 17 February, which raised the need for a diagnosis of the situation of domestic workers, as well as the need to scale up the problem, to know the steps taken and the measures to be taken in the future; and another in May, which raised the assessment of the effects of the suspension of a couple of articles of two decrees, which have also been commented on, on access to leave benefits or to reduced working hours. Thirdly, you asked for an explanation on the control of the employment of the home and of the placement agencies since the job inspection. What is objective is that the counselor responded. I have reviewed those minutes and the adviser, objectively, answers the three questions. Answers the three questions. You consider, subjectively, from your point of view, that the counsel – and you say so in the justification of the motion – gave insufficient response. It is objective, I believe, without any doubt, that he answered and the differences in how are the differences that can separate you and me: for you in an insufficient way, for me in a remarkable way. You and I, subjectively, do not agree, of course, on this issue. And I, from my humble position, believe that I can defend my subjectivity. I honestly think you get a quality answer from the counselor. If the Councilwoman had completed her reply after she had made a clear statement of the Government's commitment – which she did, Mr Hernández, with a clear statement of that commitment – if, after expressing that commitment to the situation of the working people and the finding that it is a complex matter in which different institutional areas must intervene to achieve what you propose, but also what the others proposed in your day, I would recognize you, Mrs Etxebarrieta, that the Councilwoman had done in that case an exercise of mere voluntarism, but it really was not so. That is why I believe that the answer is not insufficient. After expressing that concern and noting the complexity, which I believe we all come to understand – and those of us who know a little about this issue we come a little beyond understanding it; in fact, we have other living initiatives in this regard, really because we understand that this issue is complex – the counselor did not stop there. The counselor went on to analyze the situation in detail, taking into account the different perspectives – labor, legal, sinisterity – and brought us up to date on what they were already doing at the time. I would like, on this issue, to follow the order you put forward, not the one that followed the counselor, but the content is the same. First, the Guide to the Safety and Health of Homework. Before the appearance of the representatives of the Association of Homeworkers, the counselor told us, the elements of improvement of the guide were already detected and work was already under way on its modification. Changes such as new chips of blows, traps, lighting, temperature, biological agents. All preventive recommendations have been revised or revised; two annexes are incorporated – chemicals and cargo handling – and, in addition, a glossary of terms is included for better understanding, because it is very important that the guide be understood. And he also announces to us about this, the times and tells us, "We will soon have it." The second question, the studies arising from parliamentary agreements. We know, and it has already been said, that at the time of the adoption of the February Osalan agreement, work began quickly. At the beginning with its own human resources; after a first phase, it was found that in order to produce a good study that could fulfill the mandate that we entrust to it, it was necessary to use other resources, so contact the Department of Sociology and Social Work of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Communication of the UPV. But they determine the methodology, the objective, the work plan. As this first study is being prepared, as Mrs Sánchez has also commented, here we urge you to carry out another study, this on the effects of the deletion of those two articles to which she referred. It is clear that the first study has an essentially sociological approach – the counselor also reminded us – but the second study has a practically or almost exclusively legal approach. That's two different studies. In any case, I would like to underline the Government's commitment to studies: action and creation of studies, quality parameters, budget allocation – which has also been commented on – and the Councilwoman's announcement that she is about to be finalized and handed over to this House as a sign of respect for our agreements. Thirdly, the control of the Labour Inspectorate. They know, and have already been explained, the control carried out by the Inspection, although we all know the difficulty with which this question is made. It is a difficulty from which we cannot escape: it is very difficult to access private addresses, this entails an immense difficulty for the Inspection. In any case, three questions, three explanations requested, but also three detailed answers, as well as three concrete and quality answers. In any case, we also, in fact, sign the agreement. Sounds like a good deal to us. We understand that it was already coming, as the counsellor told us, but in any case we signed the agreement because it seems interesting to us, not so much because it means remembering it arrives, but for some other matter, mainly the one mentioned in point four: that action plan after the diagnoses. I would also like to comment on the agreement in the last paragraph. It seems to me that the text that we have reached on this last point, relating to Lanbide, substantially improves the initial approach and adjusts this point, a point where we see the necessary fit that has to do with employment needs and market needs, adjusts this point to Lanbide's functions. Without further ado, thank you, Mrs Etxebarrieta, for your willingness to allow us to contribute to the agreement, and the other groups also thank you for your commitment to the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u103	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Basque Popular representative, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Just as some of the questions I am going to raise are not for me, they were for the proposer, Mrs Etxebarrieta, but I cannot help myself. Mr Aiartza, anyone who had heard your speech today, apart from the nantine defence of the government and the department – which I am sorry, Mrs Sánchez, has defended you infinitely better than you – but apart from that nantine defence, you might think that you have just arrived in this Parliament and that you have an inquiry and if there is an answer from the counselor, why are we going to present a motion? Listen, for you to tell your deputies, the deputies of the Basque Nationalist Party in the Congress of Deputies. Hey, what motion interpellation, motion interpellation, always, no matter how much you answer everything! Really, I think that at this point, I don't know, come to say that as you have already come to answer... –which is mandatory, on the other hand. In addition, of course he replied, another thing is that he satisfactorily answered some of the questions, and another thing is that the commitments, which could have been commitments, but that the House, the proposer, in this case, thought that the commitments could go much further. It is true that in relation to this group there have been numerous initiatives and Mrs Sánchez has not been able to escape from an initiative, in which, except in one of the points, this group voted in favour, but, well, we already have everything solved: there is a new government in Spain, we can all be calm that will solve absolutely everything. With this, the point where we abstained, the ILO resolution, and everything else, everything, all solved, because Mr Sánchez has come here to give a solution to everything, with which we will not have to urge the Government of Spain ever again. But well, what we're going to, to the point in particular. It is true that in February last year an initiative was presented calling for studies within a short period of not more than nine months, to diagnose the situation of women domestic workers in the autonomous community and the needs they cover, taking into account in the study both the employer and the worker. And from here goes my total and absolute recognition to this collective, which is true that it is sometimes invisible, but in which, I first, without the contribution and the work that this collective does, on many occasions, the work that we do other women could not do or, of course, would be infinitely more difficult. It is true that another different study was then requested, through Osalan, to define with greater quality the dimension of the problem, that it would compile all the steps taken so far by the different institutions proposing measures to be applied. The Basque Government had until November – I have told you, Mr. representative of Podemos – to make this diagnosis and it was not fulfilled, and it has been a long time and we are still without the diagnosis. The Counsellor replied to us, which I do not understand, and I believe that when this study comes up and normally when one comes up with the initiatives the Government is the one that tells the groups that support the Government if they can accept, if not, how it is done. Man, the government wasn't able at that time to see that it exceeded its possibilities and that it probably couldn't do it with its own staff, and then they said yes, they could do it with its own staff. And now, the other day, the counselor, as Mr Aiartza said, who is the Department of Sociology and Social Work of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Communication of the University of the Basque Country, answers us. What's going on? That in the meantime we're buying time, aren't we? A study that had to have been completed for a long time – that I think the department itself should have realized that it exceeded its own possibilities with the work it has – has now been decided that it is in charge outside and, as I say, is gaining time. We believe that this diagnosis is important, that it is important to have it as soon as possible, that it should be referred to this House so that, as has been said here, these conclusions can be announced. Another initiative agreed to ask Osalan to carry out an analysis on whether to include women domestic workers in conciliation aid – which are now excluded – improved their situation, because it is true that women workers do not currently have access to such economic aid from the Basque Government during the surpluses and reductions of the day for care. It is true that I supported and signed a compromise amendment with the groups supporting the Government at the time, and I signed it not because I did not consider that it was necessary to end this discrimination, but because it was said that to end this discrimination it was necessary to study whether the elimination of the articles of the decree was sufficient or it was necessary to go beyond it, or to make other kind of regulations or formulas. And the other day the counselor replied that this had to be done by law experts. At the previous point I may have my doubts as to whether it can be done with the staff of the department, but, really, seeing the effects of the repeal of an article in a decree, do there not exist legal experts in the Basque Government who can do so? Really? With all the officials that we have in the Basque Government, with the legal experts that we have in the Basque Government, that we have to order out how to repeal an article, the effects of the repeal of an article, or how that discrimination that women domestic workers now have can be ended... I'm perplexed. But well, if you have to be external experts in law those who have to do it, then, well, see if they do it as soon as possible, because I think the issue didn't go so far, but good. And she pointed out that since there was no budget item before and as it had to be hired with external companies, then, it had been enabled in this 2018 Budget. That is why time limits were set in the amendment and it seems to us right that they should come because, I say, the first of the studies is more complicated, but the second, the truth, I do not see it as so difficult. But, well, let's get there and get there as soon as possible. Also, up to three times, as has been said, the intervention of the Labour Inspectorate has been called for in this House, not so much in the conditions that the workers – who also – have in their own homes, but also in the inspection of the placement agencies, that this is not so complicated. I mean, I can understand that it's complicated to access the home and see what conditions are met, but we don't see it so complicated to inspect the placement agencies. It is asked again in the motion, and it has also been reached in the compromise amendment, and we believe that it is good, that it is good that it is done. And then there is the intermediation of Lanbide, which is true that it has been modified, that I must say that I was absolutely in agreement with the original wording, but well, as a consensus has been reached... I was absolutely in agreement with the original wording. It is true that Lanbide, Mr Aiartza, precisely because he plays a good role in the intermediation of employment is not characterized, recognized by the vice-advisor himself, that in order to seek employment for Lanbide you do not go. I can accept that, but, in any case, we also do not have to cross arms and believe that, in any case, we have to try to make it the brokering instrument, that it is really the one that connects the job seekers in this case, because they are mostly women, and the employers. And I think that there are groups that are more priority than others, because they obviously have a greater vulnerability, and I think that this mediation could be done through Lanbide and that it was a priority collective for Lanbide, so that Lanbide would be the one to take care of that mediation, it seems to me absolutely logical. I say, there are collectives, in this case that depend on the placement agencies, I of course if I have to hire a person, I trust more if the contract through Lanbide than if the contract through a placement agency because I know perfectly well that if I do not contract it directly, if the contract for a few hours through Lanbide, Lanbide will be much more careful in the fulfillment of the legal procedures than a placement agency. So, in that sense, let it be a priority objective to use Lanbide I don't understand that it doesn't look right. It seemed absolutely positive to me, but, well, in any case, I will support the amendment that has been reached. And then there is the subject of the guide – let me, Madam President, it takes very little. In the appearance of the representatives of the Association of Homeworkers, the truth is that this parliamentarian – my guide had not reached me, nor had she had had any knowledge – was puzzled by some of the issues that were said there. I will use the words they used because they seem absolutely fundamental to me: "The guide is a mockery to the workers concerned and to the parliamentary mandate. It has not been published on paper, it has not been disclosed in any way, it is not even hung together with the rest of the guides on the Osalan page, and, in any case, it is not an appropriate dissemination guide for this sector. No wonder the guide is hidden because it is neither useful, nor complete, nor ensures any training. And to fill out leaflets there is a second part in which the employment legislation of these workers is summarized." She pointed out in her reply that before this appearance had been heard, elements of improvement had already been detected by Osalan's officials. Man, I think saying that there were elements of improvement in the guide is using a kind, kind and generous euphemism, because what there was was a lot of elements of improvement. I think it's that what the department should have done is never publish that guide, because it really left anyone perplexing and perplexing who read it. I think it is necessary – they say it is already being done – to make a new guide, a guide that is important for the workers themselves, and I was commenting with the proposer today, but also for the employers. And then it is true, with regard to Osalan's data collection methodology, that Osalan collects the number of accidents at work and that collecting other types of accidents that are not collected as such is more complicated, that could lead to confusion, but, in any case – and I did agree with the proposer on that – what should be said is that the data collected are not complete and that there are data that, as it happens in the field that happens, are not collected.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u105	Thank you, Miss Llanos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u106	Yeah. And recognizing that is appropriate to see that the data is not complete because otherwise, in the end, we will fall into a self-congratulation for no reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u107	Thank you, Miss Llanos. It's the answer time. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u108	Well, I haven't been in this legislature for two years and I've already learned a few things. One of these is that when one often thinks that one does not answer, he often answers. We had an arrangement, I had no intention of going down, but after the speech of Mr. Aiaz, I can't keep quiet. Eta beast gauza bat da eperik éta aurrekonturik ez daukaten proposemenak sinatzeak ez duela ezertarako balio. Eta eperik ematen ez duten weretzunek ere ez dotela ezertarako balio. Insufficient, of course insufficient. Because he was saying, "We'll have it soon." In case we asked again with written questions. We haven't been answered. The question was when I was going to be. We weren't answered when he was going to be. And in the agreement that we have reached, the dates have been set by you. We hadn't set any dates. Zuek jarri diozue hirugarren lauhilekoan hona ekartzeari, data zuek jarri diozue. Guk ez genuine jartzen. Guk jartzen genuine ahal bezain arinen heltzea. Of course not enough. It seems to you, too, because you felt it was important to bring up the matter of the date. Eta horretaz gain, ez dakit, guk egindako proposemenean hainbat gai ekartzen genituen. Esaten genuine hainbat adostasun helpu tell her orina art ez ditugunak egin 2011tik gaur egunera art. Well, it's about time someone put them on the table again. Insufficient? Of course I work insufficiently. It's not just this counselor's job, it's long coming, of course. But we'll keep insisting, that's what we're for. It's just that I already said it, I think in a previous appearance, if not, turn it off and let's go, close the folder and leave. "If at some point we had already decided, if at some point we reached an agreement, why do we continue?". Well, what are we here for? I don't know, it's 5:00 p.m., on a Thursday, in my village there's a pincho-poto. Well, it'd be better, I don't know, honestly. Eta puntu horietan sartu ez izanak, gaur egindako interpelazioa "inufizienta" iruditu izanean zentratu izanak zurre hitzartze guztia harrituta utilzi nau. Eskubide osoa daukazun nik eskubide osoa daukadan bezala esateko, which I found insufficient and which is why I put into a motion, because in the two years I have been here, the formula of "insufficient response, here goes motion" is the one I have seen repeated, but many times. If you teach me a better formula, because it looks like that's what I came to, to show me how I had to make the motions. Yes, Mr. Aiartza. If you tell me a better formula, I will put it next time, because I will continue to ask questions and they will still seem insufficient to me, but instead of seeming insufficient, if I know that I have to deal with the point with you, I will put that "it was not the ones we expected, we wanted a little more concrete and, therefore, with a lot of respect and love to this House, we put the motion in." I'd like to finish with an idea that Mrs. Llanos has thrown away, because I think it's very important what you said. There are many women here who could not be here, if the other women had not taken on their shoulders the work on our shoulders. And I think that this confession must be made, and that it must also lead us to reflection; why many women here have thought of it, why we cannot make permanent lives, we who are here, many women who are out of it, and how often all that remains behind other women. So we've got something to talk about. We've got a deal to agree with each other. We've also seen that today, a proposal of full agreement. And we will continue to work in this sense, we will continue to make proposals, and we will continue to thank the teams again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u110	Yeah, I think briefly. Let's see, the issue of deadlines. Man, it is normal that time limits are finally set because you have already asked yourself several times in writing, oral, and several answers have been, on different occasions, that "in short", "it is ending", etc. So, well, it's normal. I don't think there was much discussion when we agreed. My group did put in its amendment deadlines, we took three months. We thought that by September this could already be, but, well, I said before that there is no problem by the end of the year, among other things because, one, we thought that the guide could be already elaborated, that it could have already been elaborated because the guide – here it has been said – needs to be improved. I hope it won't improve. I hope that what you are presenting to us is a new guide because what was presented to us, you have already explained, was a veritable huddle. Therefore, we thought the guide might already have been. We agree that it must be done well, and especially after seeing what was done, but it is a guide, it is not the encyclopedia. So, I think that, when they passed the committee a few months ago, it seems to me that this issue could already be. So, I think that when we talk about a deadline, which is at the end of the year, because reproaching us in some way for talking about deadlines, it seems a little excessive to me. And as for the diagnosis. I have already said in my previous speech that we had listened to the counselor's argument and I have not put any glue on it. They have already explained to us the difficulties they encountered, the methodology they decided to address, in what way, precisely to do it right. Okay, no hits. Let's hope he's well done when he gets here. But the introduction of the legal report for the other issue, to see how it would affect the elimination of the points in the decree that prevent women domestic workers from accessing conciliation aid, well, as has already been said here too, is a legal report, which does not seem to us to add an excessive difficulty to this diagnosis to extend the deadlines so much. In any case, as I'm sure that when you bring the diagnosis, it'll be a great diagnosis. Let's see it. There is one issue that we think is important. The compromise includes one thing that we had in our amendment, which is that of the action plan, which we think is very important, but then, as far as the Labour Inspectorate is concerned, a formula has finally been drawn up which we feel is insufficient because it comes to say that once the diagnosis is also there, we will see whether it is necessary to reformulate how the Labour Inspectorate acts. We have this part clearly: if we really recognize that Labour Inspectorate has special difficulties in dealing with labour inspection in women domestic workers, because they are workers, because it seems to us that it is more than clear that Labour Inspectorate has to rethink how it can do so. It is not enough for us to just say that there are difficulties. I also said that in my first speech. Precisely if this sector has special difficulties for Labour Inspection and for Osalan, but especially also for Labour Inspection, for that is precisely why the Government has to give impetus to a special effort. And it seems to us that it could have been collected, that we already had to agree that we need to rethink how the Labour Inspectorate could address the inspection of the work of domestic workers. And then we are told by Mr Aiartza that the Basque Government has already expressed its commitment to women domestic workers in a frank manner. Well, I have not said anything about this issue, the Basque Government can express this with all the roundness that it wants – and if it says it with all the roundness, I will not come to say that it has not expressed it with all the roundness – but what we have said, and not just me, is that this sector is in very bad condition and that it sees no progress, when it is a subject that is being debated in this House, as has also been said, for a long time. So, along with the roundness of the compromise, we think that we have to prove it in the facts, and we believe that the initiative that we finally adopt today, because yes, it goes in that direction, but we think – as I said before – that on some issues that have been reconsidering on different occasions, as it should already be a last touch of attention for the government to finally execute them. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u111	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u112	Let me see, Mrs Llanos, I saw you a little bit stingy in your first speech. I am delighted that you have enjoyed Mr Aiartza's intervention much more. I do not know whether it has been wrong for you that I have told you that another year has passed without ratifying ILO Convention 189 and I have been muskened, or I have been muskened by other things that have been happening lately, I do not know why it has been muskened so much, but, come on, what is a reality is that it has been another year without that convention being ratified. But don't worry, I will no longer ask you to ratify ILO Convention 189. On the other hand, the Department of Labour and Justice and Osalan have sought the most appropriate procedure. It was considered that the result was much more complete if it was entrusted to the University of the Basque Country and many more things could be covered transversally, it has been considered better precisely in order to achieve a better result in that work that is being carried out and so has been done. So, here it has been said, "You have to do it fast", but if you do it fast and then you don't like the result, as happened at the end of the previous legislature with the guide to occupational risk prevention, then it says, "Jo, it's something that we don't like, because it did wrong and fast and so on." Things have to be done right, and that's what you're doing. It has been seen that it was better to make a new guide, that it is being developed and that it is being made aware of the best possible outcome and that it is useful for domestic workers and employers. That is what is being done and, in addition, a very broad deadline is expected. Agreed that you have put three months, and it will probably be by September because we have already indicated that the guide is finished, that it is pending only editing and translation to the Basque, with which I imagine it will be able to have quickly, and probably will be by the date that you have marked. Well, it's been a little longer, but I'm pretty sure it'll probably be over by now. In addition, the diagnosis and the study carried out, as they are also quite advanced and, probably, they may also be completed before the end of this period. And it is seeking to do so in the most complete way possible precisely to have that study in a much more complete and much broader way than what has been done previously on this subject. Then, on the subject of accidents at work, Mrs Llanos, you indicated that you did not understand why, exactly, what I had said, why we did not say that not all accidents were collected. Man, that's logical. Officially, in the official calculation, the parts of work accidents of workers who have been discharged arrive; in the sector of domestic workers, you will not get any part of work accidents of a worker who has not been discharged. Thus, if the work accident was found to have occurred, it would become part of that official calculation, but, obviously, it cannot have the reality of the totality of the work accidents that occur, as is also the case with workers in the general regime, that a worker who is not discharged, precisely that work accident will not be officially communicated because you are automatically caught in the absence of discharge. The deadlines will be met. And the guide, as I have pointed out, is new, Mr Hernández, of course, and is being carried out as fully as possible. I believe that we have to keep to the effort made by everyone, with which this work will be completed, and will be completed shortly, in a way that is as best as possible and that serves to improve the conditions of domestic workers and can also serve as information for their employers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u113	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u114	Thanks again. Mrs Etxebarrieta, I have never believed and I will never believe that we are wasting time here; it seems tremendously interesting and productive to me what we are doing here. Really, don't believe that; at least I don't. "What are we for?", he said. Well – without trying to give you any of this, because let's see if... – I think you're going to push the government action and this is a drive for government action, also mixed with a little control, and I think it's great. Me, me, me, me, It seems phenomenal, because that helps us all move forward. However, I can understand that, in my view, the Government is already moving at a high rate. They're different perceptions. With which, "insufficient" "By the way, it's your term, it's not my term," I'm just saying you call it "insufficient" -- which seems like we've had a controversy here with inadequacy and sufficiency, Mrs. Llanos. What you're "insufficient," and you call it that, I say to me it's "more than enough." And what I have tried, in any case, to prove or try to prove is that, despite the difficulties, the complexity of the issue, it is being done. It's done and it's done at a good pace. And things are being done, derived from what the counselor brings us that day. And I stand for that position, that's all. Mrs Llanos, it has been difficult for you to arrive, you said, to the point in particular. It's already cost you!, but minute and a half after you've finished your time, you've come to that point that I wanted to get that it's "self complacency." Right, you could just say it: self-congratulation. Well, I don't think it's self-congratulation, but what I was saying to Mrs. Etxebarrieta is a perception. That effect that counted us between interpellation and motion. To me it seems a logical effect, and to use it seems to me a logical exercise, it is even automatism in many cases. He remembered our parliamentary group in Madrid, well, because our parliamentary group in Madrid has to be very selective, because it does not have the capacity to register so many appeals, so it cannot automatically make so many motions. They can present very few. You here do present and you do use that automation, in plan almost assembly chain. Come on, they could give us a master's degree on this issue. No more. On the specific point: she admits that the counsellor responded to everything. Yes, yes, you acknowledged that the counselor responded to everything, but she said, "insufficiently." Let us return to the previous question. I tell you that I defend the sufficiency, rather than the sufficiency, of that response and, in fact, it will be demonstrated shortly. And beyond that, I keep thinking and I keep appreciating how good this agreement brings us, because there are issues that were not raised in that inquiry and have been raised in the agreement. Mr Hernández has reminded us of some of them right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u115	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Well, the automatism interpellation-motion thing. Look, specifically I have put some questions in this House that have not been followed by a motion, for starters. But in terms of perceptions, what do you want me to say? If you in perceptions are experts. Different perception when in government or when in opposition. He says the government is at a good pace. It's going at a good pace, because you now support the government. Do you know what's wrong with you, Mr. Aiartza? That when you were in the opposition, in the Patxi López government, a speed of 120 km/h considered it to be slow to go and, now that you are in the government, to go at 10 km/h, as in some cases you are in this government, seems to you an ultrasonic speed. That's the differences in perceptions. And he says I said he responded to everything. I said he answered. Answering and answering are two different things. He replied, because he has no choice, because the House demands it; now, to answer, that it is to give full account of the things that were asked of him, I believe that that is already something different. Mrs. Sánchez, I'm not mad at all. What I am telling you is that it is true that it is a department governed by a socialist, and I repeat it to you again: it has defended it infinitely better than you. Hey, I'll leave it there. And with regard to the ILO, Mrs Sánchez, whom we have known for a long time, and you wanted to do so was to strike at the only point where the People's Party abstained from that initiative because in all the other points you voted in favour. So, all I've said is that you don't have to ask me. Obviously, it is requested of the Government. Now that you govern, the problems of Spain are solved, but come on, in what way! So now it's going to be ratified immediately, isn't it? – as Mr Rajoy would say: "or no?"– because you are experts, I have told you on some occasions, and in this House we have proof of this, if not... I do not bring here because I do not give time, interventions of Mr Itxaso that are mythical and that now you, with potatoes. I have told you on many occasions, they have an ease to move from the Government to the banner, but come on, but from the banner to the Government they also have an enormous ease. Which means, "where I said, I say Diego" and we'll see, and we'll give it more time and now, and if I happen to create a commission, and I order a study and get it out... Come on, they know a long time about that. I in the Government of Spain do not know, in the Congress of Deputies, because I have not been, but in this House I have seen examples, but let's go, to learn. And I have told you with the deadlines: the first diagnosis seems more complicated to me, but really, to see the effects of the repeal of an article you need to consult experts in law? That we are not reforming the Constitution, Mrs Sánchez! That it is abrogating an article so that a discrimination currently faced by female domestic workers does not have it! But really, with you the drafting of the Constitution since 1978 we haven't had it yet, because we are going. And that takes so much time? And not only that: it cannot be done by the legal officials themselves who have the Basque Government and it must be entrusted to legal experts. Really, I think it's to make him look at it. And I'm done with the work accidents. What I was saying to you, Mrs Sánchez, on this subject, is that accidents at work in a clear company are all computed because it is public, it is notorious, there is publicity and they are all computed. In a home you can compute those you realize, but we all know that there are work accidents that occur in a home, that you do not realize for multiple reasons, for multiple reasons, but you do not realize. Thus, the statistics on accidents at work within the home are not complete and what was requested was only that: to say that the data that exist are not complete data. It was as simple as that. Recognizing the complexity of collecting all this data – and we have recognized it – but it will be with me that we must also recognize that this statistic is not complete and that there are more work accidents among household workers than those in the statistics. Why? Because if not, we fall, like almost everything else in this government, into self-congratulation. And that's not good for troubleshooting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u117	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote EH Collect, together with Podemos, Eukal Socialists, and the middle-line correction that the Eunciators have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u118	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposition of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, being distributed with one another to the other values of involuntary unemployment. Discipline and final resolution. Let's make a suggestion of the team together, Podemos. Mr. Bollain, it's your word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u119	Thank you, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President:
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u120	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u121	As you know, and as the President has just said, today we are bringing to this House a non-legislative proposal on measuring the unemployment rate in an extended way to more estimates of involuntary unemployment. Unintentional unemployment, which is now and unfortunately more present than ever. From Elkarrekin We can be clear, and we have expressed this in the negotiations we have been conducting with the different political groups, that in no case was that initiative to put the finger in the eye of anyone, neither of the Government nor of the parties that supported it. The aim of the initiative in this sense is very clear, that we live in a reality that has little or nothing to do with that of 1964, when the first labour force survey was carried out. A reality in which unemployment cannot be measured as measured in the twentieth century because we live in the twenty-first century and as such we must respond to the problems with methods of the twenty-first century, not the twentieth century. At present we know that there is great precariousness in employment, we know that there is involuntary unemployment, we know that there is the involuntary partiality and we know that there is involuntary temporality. And the present reality is totally different from that of the last century because it has changed. We co-exist in that liquid modern society that the late Bauman defined. And no one in this House can deny that the unemployment rate is based on a rather limited definition of what it means not to have decent employment, a definition limited to the factors and aspects of the twentieth century. According to the International Labour Organization's definition of unemployment, people are considered unemployed if they are unemployed, available to start working within two weeks, and actively seeking employment at the time of the survey. And it is against this limitation that the European Central Bank itself pointed out that there are broader definitions that are being relevant to assessing the overall degree of laxness in the labour markets of the new times. The European Central Bank adds that two groups are particularly relevant for consideration. First, those who are unemployed but who do not meet the strict criteria of availability to work or of active job search. And, secondly, those who work part-time, but want to work more hours or want to work full-time. The first group falls into the inactive category, and the second group falls into the employee category. If we look up and look a little bit at Europe, where Eurostat, for example, is studying these issues, we appreciate how the combination of estimates of unemployed and underemployed people suggests that unemployment seen in a broader way currently affects 18% of the euro area workforce. And this volume of underutilisation is almost twice the level measured by the unemployment rate, which is now at 9.5%. If we speak at the level of the Spanish State, it has also been the European Central Bank that has warned that real unemployment almost doubles to official unemployment: while the official unemployment rate is around 18% in the Spanish State, real unemployment is around 30%. I repeat, 30%. And to avoid this important limitation of unemployment data, countries such as the United States designed a new methodology to estimate an unemployment rate with the aim of better reflecting the reality of the twenty-first century. And this method consists of calculating new indicators from the official unemployment rate. To this end, different indicators are added in order to account as unemployed those who are in the following three groups. The first, the first assumption, people who even want to work don't look for a job because they think they won't find it. And that group is popularly known as "disheartened workers." The second scenario includes those who do not seek employment because they are waiting for one who fits their qualification or who are waiting for an OPE call, who have been fired, but trust to be readmitted to their company, etc. And these people in this group are called "potential assets." And in the third group, and lastly, it also includes all those people who work less hours than they would like. In other words, it accounts for all those who work part-time because they do not find full-time jobs as they would like. Of course, these people are also not satisfied with their labour market needs and it is therefore reasonable to include them as job seekers even if they are not strictly unemployed. In addition, it should be noted that the main concerns in this group are young people and women. If we add these three groups of staff to the indicator that measures the unemployment rate, it makes it a more realistic indicator. An indicator that results in what many experts call "real unemployment". And if we add a measure of temporary employment that does not cover full-time, monthly or annual hours, we have the main picture of job insecurity that should be integrated into a real unemployment rate. And I used to talk about the real unemployment rate in Europe and Spain, but Euskadi is not an oasis in this entire desert. Mr Urkullu's government here has proposed to reduce the unemployment rate by less than 10% – something that, as we have already said on other occasions, will be achieved independently of that government's actions, at the economic juncture itself. But in the face of a precarious labour market, such as the one that exists in the middle of the 21st century, it is necessary to have a measure of the unemployment rate of the 21st century. Because what would happen in Euskadi if we measured the rate of increased unemployment? What would happen if we measured unemployment with an indicator that allowed us to achieve the real unemployment rate of our society? Well, look, I'll tell you in a moment – and it's not data that we invent in Elkarrekin Podemos, we don't do magic. In this way, I will quote data from the Labour Force Survey carried out by the National Institute of Statistics, by the INE, for the third quarter of 2017. The Basque Government says that the official unemployment rate is 11.7% in the third quarter of 2017. However, if we look at the real unemployment rate in Euskadi, it is 22.6%. I repeat, the real unemployment rate in Euskadi is 22.6%, 10.9 points higher than the official rate. Of those 10.9 points that are different from the official unemployment rate, 7.8 points are the cause of involuntary part-time workers. That is, people who do not find full-time jobs. Moreover, if we measured the real unemployment rate and compared it, Euskadi would become the second largest autonomous community with the lowest unemployment rate to be the seventh largest autonomous community with the lowest unemployment rate in the Spanish State. We would be with a higher unemployment rate than Navarra, than Baleares, than Aragon, than La Rioja, than Catalonia and than Madrid. Honestly, and I say it in a totally constructive way, I think it's time to take steps forward to better understand the reality of our country and to be able to offer citizens solutions adapted to our real reality. That is why we say, and I repeat, to measure unemployment in a twenty-first century labour market we cannot use indicators of the twentieth century. And from Elkarrekin We can, we work and we try to be useful to improve people's lives in Euskadi, and that is, without a doubt, to know the reality of our labour markets and to know the reality of unemployment, of partiality, of temporality in Euskadi. Because that is the case, and that is the only way we can implement the best public employment policies that will improve the life of our citizens. Finally, I say to you that it has been a rather strange, strange negotiation, perhaps out of misunderstandings that it may have been, because, well, even though there were enough limbs to reach an agreement, it did not come to materialize it, but, finally, after an exercise of generosity, of understanding on the part of all, we have achieved it and that is what we are content with. And without further ado, I thank Mr Aguirre, Mrs Larion and Mrs Castelo, who have finally managed to reach an agreement and, moreover, I thank Mr Ruiz de Arbulo for his willingness from the outset to vote in favour of the compromise we have reached.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u122	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. problemon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u123	Good evening and thank you, Your Honor. We all know that employment is, for several reasons, a fundamental element in most people's life. Of all these other reasons, the most fundamental and most obvious reward which is annexed to the employment would be our principal source of income. Historically, and for a long decade, thanks to this reward, the degree of well-being could be admitted, because we can get enough property and services to satisfy our needs. In this sense, the fundamental mechanism of protecting itself to poverty and to avoid social exclusiveness has been effective, but even the binom of a reasonable degree of well-being and pay is shaken by the nebulous offence. In the distribution of economic growth the workers get less involved. The wages have been lowered, unemployment remains disturbing, and the rights of labor have been taken back, increasing its dignity. The absence of any jurisdiction in the Basque Country is fatal, not only in the division of the revenue and social cohesion, but also in the future of a hundred producers. And I'll give you a few examples of what Mr. Bollain has put in, but a little earlier, of the April before: In our unemployment, there are 125,000 people at this moment, and only 28.3% of them gets unemployment. So there's a 71,7% of the unemployed, that doesn't take the job, and that's what worries us too. Even amongst those who work, more than 12,000 people get their rent to guarantee incomes, RGI. I mean, between RGI's tenants, 20% of them are poor workers. And we care about this too. We must, therefore, speak not only of long-term unemployment, but also of people who are in poverty. Our goal, EH Collector's, and I hope we're all of us, is to establish the whole employment policy, effective, consistently conformable to the will of an advanced society, and to place our economics within a strategy of continuing to the future. From the point of view of social justice and human development, the only real option is to form strong propositions. Such as now, not only consider employment as a primary end, but at the present day. the limits of the present model of development must also be taken notice of, and even if we look at the social area. And even in that, as Mrs. Houseland has said, the play must also be included, and the conditions of society and of work. So did he. So, employment, subimpulsion, and unemployment are also the care and care of this society. Because today we have come to talk about how to measure the unemployment rate, but not to do a mere arithmetic-statistical exercise, but precisely to move forward on employment issues. In addition, I believe that there is a basic question which, at least at an earlier point, where we were talking about the long-term unemployed, has appeared. When at one point it has been suggested that one can be stopped for a long time, but in turn one can be young. Already, because they are absolutely independent variables, the one is not mutually exclusive with the other. They are categories that do not imply exclusion between themselves. The question, and I comment here, because what we are talking about in the sixth point, is indeed a variation in the conceptual framework on employment variables, because it puts on the table consider variables that so far were considered mutually exclusive, as they are not. If we see the classifications – as Mr Bollain also explained to us – of how the population is classified from a certain age, it is considered to be occupied if it has a job or if it is unemployed, and if it does not belong to the inactive population. Thus, within the category of employees, it seems that being employed is mutually exclusive to being unemployed. That's been the case so far, but is that true? The point is that that is no longer clear. That is to say, the answer begins to be no, because there are already categories that speak of quality employment and underemployment, and this is the conceptual framework that we find really interesting in this proposal and so we have decided from the beginning to support it. Because when we say here too many times, in political speeches, that quality jobs are being generated, why? Because one says so? We need, of course, indicators that tell us what the job is and what it is that we have. There are indicators, for example, which puts on the Eurofond table, and sets out four indicators: the income index, i.e. the wage index; the outlook index, which also integrates job security; the intrinsic quality index of employment; and the quality index of working time, which also includes working hours, hours and flexibility. With this, and indeed also going to the data for the first quarter of 2018, could it be said that the employment generated in the Autonomous Community is of quality? The truth is that no, because at least it does not meet several of Eurofond's indices, because in the first quarter 90,5 % of contracts were temporary, thus it does not meet one of the quality criteria. And two fifths were part-time, which also means that Eurofond's quality criteria are not met. That is to say – as Mr Bollain told us – there is one issue which is underemployment. A person may be considered to be within the occupied population, who has a job, but is under-employed because his or her employment is not of quality and because, de facto There is underemployment due to insufficient hours and occasional, underemployment due to low wages. We have different types of underemployment and, indeed, we agree that we need effective indicators that measure underemployment, as well as effective indicators that perfectly analyse employment, quality and unemployment. Therefore, when it was proposed, a methodology, which contained all this, seemed interesting to us also to examine it. Of course! And when we examine the real unemployment of methodology, which is immediately planned, we agree with this concept. Because it is of particular interest to any society precisely to analyze, within the population that is of working age, also those that are considered to be inactive, why they are inactive. And it is especially important, in our case, because if we already have almost 50% in the last quarter of the labour force, the inactive population is 43.8% and it is a very large amount. And as there are other indicators, there would be a part of this inactive population that, with appropriate employment policies, could become an active population. It is a very large percentage and studies in other countries believe that this type of action could be encouraged when policies are perfectly targeted at these groups. Therefore, if we are to put people at the centre of politics, steps must be taken. This monitoring of the different situations and circumstances that lead certain people to be within the inactive population will have to be incorporated in order to make active policies to change the situation. Here, of course, we would have not only the long-term unemployed – of whom we have already spoken – but the unemployed marginally linked to the workforce or to the discouraged workers. In any case, we believe today, we must confess, we have the greatest interest in arguing with him and opening this perspective. Now the experts and the operators will have to act, and consider what the best proposition can be made, and what changes it must produce and how they develop. Besides, we'll add all the factors that will soon be in ours. We'll insert the discussion and open the discussion on the law of the 2018-20-22 Statistical Plan. So if the employment strategy wants to answer the social position of the Basque Country, it is necessary that this difficult challenge should be reached by an important attitude, if it is to seek a complete modification of the situation. Today is a small step, but in the right direction. We're glad to get to this agreement, too, and we think it's easy or simple enough, and we're glad to get to it, because it makes a job to develop to the future. I think it's for the sake of the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u124	Thank you, ma'am. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u125	Mr. Bollain, it's all about getting started. Do not be afraid, that we can continue along the path of consensus issues. We are going to debate today, at the request of Elkarrekin Podemos, a concrete thing, which is about the different methodologies for measuring the unemployment rate, about what the non-law proposal is about. Its proposal is based on a basis that socialists share and is that the proper measurement of economic variables, especially those relating to employment, is essential in order to be able to have accurate analyses that serve as a basis for the design and implementation of public policies that reduce inequalities and improve the quality of employment. Mrs Larion told us in her speech that if we had a shared objective, which I believe we have, or at least from the Socialist Group, that is to establish a comprehensive, effective and efficient employment policy, I would add, and that is why the issue of indicators is needed. Therefore, the objective of these labour statistics is to provide systematic, as comprehensive information as possible on the main economic and social aspects in which the labour market moves, so that these data that offer us are useful for analysis, prediction and decision-making. Currently, it is true, there are various labour statistics that analyse different aspects of the labour market; the most consolidated or important is the labour force survey, which has been developing since 1964, and which has a homogeneous design to that of other surveys carried out in the countries of the European Union. A survey that follows the methodology established by the International Labour Organisation – mentioned by Mr Bollain in his speech – and that has been incorporating changes over the years, both in definitions and in questions about specific situations in the labour market and that it was becoming apparent that it was necessary to test, such as part-time work, job training, job search or the conditions under which future employment would be accepted, among other issues that have been changed up to the last few years. One of the most important concepts in these statistics is the unemployment rate. – and here we have seen it because there has been a data bath with respect to the interesting unemployment rate, right?–. It is a concept on which experts in the field, in the field of statistics, are currently holding a discussion on the methodology used to obtain it. In other words, what they are discussing is whether the official definition of unemployment that is currently used, the statistics that are being compiled, especially that carried out by the EPA, is too strict and excludes some situations that could also be considered as unemployment. – which is a bit where you went in the argument, Mr Bollain. We could say that the debate has become popular in recent months, while some agencies – they have also mentioned them – have included some kind of alternative calculation in the analyses they carry out, not a specific methodology, but have included some kind of alternative calculation. And that's what your proposal is all about, Elkarrekin's proposal Podemos. He asks us in his original proposal to look at the methodology that is used beyond the seas, in particular the Office of Labor Statistics of the United States, which in a generic and simple way, you have made a journey, consists in accounting for unemployment from the official definition, which is also used here in Europe and that which we use both in Spain and in Euskadi, and from there to add certain groups that are not currently considered as unemployed – and you have said it –: discouraged inactive people, unavailable inactive people or involuntary part-time workers. That would mean, as the initiative you have brought us to the House rightly says, a definition of a wider unemployment rate. It is true, and I have to admit this, that the knowledge of other factors may be of interest, to know the power of underutilized work, the behavior in economic periods of crisis or expansion of that collective of inactive, which, curiously, does not behave in the same way, the why of their expulsion from the labour market, if it is a subject of work processes, of disconnection of qualification profiles. Not all of these factors are currently taken into account, but assessing which unemployment measurement is best or most appropriate is not simple and is not exempt from certain doses of subjectivity. That is why we believe that prior to any expansion or modification of the current methodology, other issues should be clarified, such as what the reality is or what reality we want to measure – unemployment, unemployment, unemployment, inactivity, underutilized work – or what we want to use that information for. Of course, not for the debate from a rostrum, indeed, that this is an instrumental thing, but, logically, to – I imagine – then adopt certain public policies. That is why both the Basque Nationalist group and the Socialist Group amended their proposal because it was no longer valid for a methodology that is not used in the majority in our environment – in the Eurostate, in the INE – and we would propose jointly that, prior to any variation in the methodology or in the way in which we do and perform and compute the rate we currently have, a study be carried out that offers us the elements of judgment necessary to incorporate this type of increase in the rate into future surveys. Because we must bear in mind, and that must not be forgotten, that at present the definition of unemployment used is the one that most resembles the concept of unemployment of the collective imagination. I mean, unemployed people looking for work and not finding it. That simple. Nor should we forget that being an official definition makes the rate comparable to that of the rest of our surrounding countries. But this, which I say to you, logically, does not prevent us from recognizing that other measurements also have their interest as they capture another part of the reality that does not reflect the current definition. In fact, the Socialists believe – and I think we share both with Mrs Larion and with you – that monitoring of part-time workers, especially those who are involuntary, is highly recommended to measure labour market health. You have spoken about quality in employment or the health of the labour market. There are recent reports, in addition to those mentioned by Mrs Larion, which show that there is a link between higher risk of poverty and part-time work, mainly in relation, logically, to what an annual wage would mean. And if one finds in all the studies that the recovery of the labour market today is taking place in a very intense way through partial and temporary recruitment; partiality and temporality which has occupied us in this Parliament in other debates and which will certainly continue to occupy us in the coming months. That is why the Socialists, together with the Nationalist Group, from the approach I made to them at the beginning of my speech that the objective of statistics is to provide us with systematic, as complete as possible, information that is useful for decision-making, we incorporated in our amendment a proposal that, from the third quarter of 2018 onwards, information on underemployment should be published by the Eustat, that concept that we have all agreed is that of those people who work part-time involuntarily. But in that search for agreements we have reached that consensus of minimums in which we have been able to be all political forces. I think it is very interesting because I also believe that this is a step forward and therefore we will have in this Parliament a study on the incidence of the rate of increased unemployment within the current situation, and in addition, we ask the Eustat to study the different methodologies that exist, not only the one mentioned in the initiative, but those that currently exist, to see whether we can incorporate in 2019 the survey carried out by the Eustat itself and certain aspects that could provide us with new information. Well, we are pleased that Mr Bollain and I have come to agree on a compromise proposal; we are grateful for the will of the rest of the group that have also been in this House, and for this to be the point of Parliament's activity in this House from now on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, good afternoon. Congressmen, good evening to all. First of all, Mr. Bollain, I wanted to tell you that as much as yours, or that we are perfectly conformable to the other proposition or purpose from the beginning. We believe that we ought to know and examine new examples of unemployment, but it is true that at first we did not see very well the methodology you proposed, the BLS methodology, the use of this model in Eukadin. We think we live in another area. We live in Europe, we work in Europe, which demands at least the use of the criteria of Europe. Official statistics that are carried forward to the European Union are based on the execution of the code of this statistical system in which the institutional aspects, the process of statistical action and the 15 principles which have penetrated so many subjects as the statistical process. The general methodary frame of statistics follows correct rules, orientations, and practices, both European and international, and applies the concepts, definitions, and standard classifications in a consistent manner. Official statistics must be comparisonable throughout time with the coherent and other scopeal lands, which must be plainly and clearly chromatic, and these characters only follow if they use solid and fixed methodology. In our case, in the statistics made by Eustate, they use the methodology of European statistics in the rules, and they use the rule of the European Committee according to the course of population. Therefore, as I said, the concern that you have brought here with this initiative, with this GNP, not only seems to us to be fully founded, but we fully share the usefulness of having new data that will allow us to further refine the information on unemployment. We think it is particularly important at this time to carry out a study on the rate of increased unemployment in order to be able to identify and assess the incidence of new forms of unemployment related not only to job insecurity, but also to the labour market and the trends in this market. Therefore, with the substance of the initiative there is no problem, from the beginning we agreed. However, it is true that we had doubts and, why not say so, discrepancies about the model to be used. Because, as I said, the official statistics produced by Eustat are based on European methodologies, on European regulations determined by the European level. In the specific case of the population survey in relation to the activity – the PRA – a specific definition of the European Commission is used, which is Regulation 1897/2000, and which in turn lays down provisions for the implementation of the Council, another Council Regulation, 577/98, on the organisation of a sample survey on the labour force in the labour force as regards the operational definition of unemployment. The PRA questionnaire here in Euskadi, which uses Eustat, follows rigorously the criteria of proportionality and non-excessive burden for the respondents, limiting the questions for what is deemed strictly necessary. To put it some way, without wanting to punctuate the people who are being polled. And this is the main reason why the questions in the questionnaire are limited to determining a standard definition in relation to the labour market and, in particular, to the unemployed population. And, on the other hand, as has already been mentioned here by Mrs Larion, on the other hand, there has been a great deal of work done over the past few months to prepare the new Basque Statistical Plan and different socio-economic, academic and expert actors have been working on the preliminary draft law of this Basque Plan. And these agents – experts, academics, users as well – have met over nine months, between May of last year – May 2017 – and February of this year, and we think they have had plenty of time to analyze all the details and demands that the new plan is going to require. However, in the processes of reflection on the need for new information, new statistical data, no one has raised what you propose in your GNP, which is to study the expanded unemployment rate determined in the U.S. BLS methodology. However, as I said before, we do find the information you are asking for useful, because it will certainly allow us to design from institutions, political groups, parties, answers to new problems that are emerging in today's society, other forms of unemployment, and I believe that we all have an obligation, and we all have an obligation to respond to these problems. And for this reason I believe that we have reached a broad agreement, which has been more or less laborious, but with this compromise amendment, which certainly seems important to us, not only because of the agreement, but also because of the concern to know in detail the issues affecting this new unemployment, we are going to think of all new effective answers to counter these problems. We therefore already have the Basque Government involved in delivering a reply by the end of the year to this Parliament. The Department of Employment and Social Policy will deliver a report that will integrate the data that Eustat has produced, because Eustat does not produce reports or can study, simply produces data and the reports will have to be made by the department responsible, which in this case is the Department of Employment and Social Policy. And on the other hand, and in keeping with your illusion or your desire, we are going to ask Eustat to study other methodologies, as Mrs Alexia Castelo has already told you, to use or see how other measures could be used to calculate the expanded unemployment rate and consider the inclusion of these additional questions in the next year's questionnaire. So I just want to thank all the people and teams who participated in this medium. And just for my part, thanks all the teams again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u128	Thank you, Mr Aguire. A team that hasn't run any corrections, the Basque Popular. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. This is the third item on the agenda for today's plenary session on the subject of employment. And I believe that the initiative that Mr Bollain on behalf of the Elkarrekin Podemos group has put us on the table this afternoon is very interesting. In itself, the initiative seemed very good – there were things we didn't share, but more than anything in the pre-LNP justification that we wanted to vote and support all of us – and we decided not to amend it because we thought it could go forward just as it did. You have not given up your efforts and you have reached an agreement from all the groups that, of course, we are going to support because it is positive. There are concepts I didn't just share, but, well. I'll try to explain what they are and why we don't share them from our group. I understand that we have or must continue to maintain the same indices of measurement of the labour market situation in order to see at what stage we are at and where evolution is going. At the moment, we are at a time of economic growth, above the European average, above 3% of annual GDP, which means employment growth, the generation of new social security affiliations, and a drop in the unemployment rate in quite large quantities. If on May 31 we are told that the average of these first five months of the 2018 fiscal year is being created 1,700 jobs daily, and we look back and we see that seven or eight years ago 1,400 jobs were destroyed a day, the tortilla has been turned around and now we are on a positive path. In the last month 83,738 people who were as unemployed have obtained a job and are no longer on that unemployment list and 252,207 new members of Social Security. Work is good. What we have to do in a lot: there are 3,252,000 Spaniards who want to work and can't do it. But as the machinery is already running and employment is being generated, we can look at whether that job is of quality or not, which is something important, and that is where it is not I share some of the analyses you make on your initiative. I do understand that those of the last group to which we referred could be regarded as unemployed, who actually wanted to work full-time, but could not do so. And somehow we could understand that they can be considered unemployed. Not so, I do not consider a person who has a job or is attached to a job through a temporary contract to be unemployed and would like it to be indefinite. I don't consider her unemployed. In the same way as those 252,000 new members of Social Security, if we did a survey of how many would like to have a fixed contract or salary above that they have with that new job, we could say that of the 252,000, 250,000 should be considered unemployed too, because they want to improve their conditions. We must maintain the indices that we had, but I think it is very interesting that we have new indices that allow us, in fact, to analyse which niches of the population, which social groups, which collectives are working under conditions that we believe are not the best, so that the public administrations, fundamentally, can direct their jobs there. And I don't know if you're very humble or have not realized the true transcendence of your initiative. For the first time in a long time, an initiative that, if implemented, will have an immediate effect. I'll explain to you why, Mr. Bollain. You have, in your agreement with the Government, succeeded in having the Department of Employment and Social Policy, together with Eustat, carry out a series of index measurements to achieve this rate of increased unemployment – I believe you call it on your initiative. That means a lot of fieldwork. If the initiative is carried out, if it is done with the workers of the Eustat and is not outsourced, that a group of 97 women workers, who consider their employment to be precarious, because it is part-time and with absolutely unfair remuneration, consider immediately improving their conditions, and we could take them back out of those precarious employment groups maintained by the Basque Government. Therefore, your initiative has a far more important transcendence than you believe. I believe that these indices are necessary, these indices are very important, to see how the labour market evolves over the coming months, this year and next year, to see whether the policies that have actually been implemented have been positive or need to be changed. And if the active employment policies that have to be carried out from Lanbide in this process of improvement and modernization to make it a truly useful tool, and that creates jobs, and that helps to unite the needs of the people who want to work with those of the companies that need workers in good conditions, in decent working conditions, gets their fruits. For that reason, those indices, that forward-looking work, I think it is very important, very interesting and, therefore, from the outset we have considered that we should support this motion, and that is what we are going to do, especially given that you have managed to improve it greatly with the agreement with the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the answering shift to say something? No. Not even. Anyone else who has something to say? Well, since the discussion is over, we'll vote together for Podemos, EH Collect, Eukal Sociialists, and the middle-class correction that the Basque patriots have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u131	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. The seventh point on the theme list: "Mortion, the assembly of the Jewish laws of lópez, María del lópez de Ocariz López de Muninka, the European Boards for 2021-2027 periods of agriculture (NPE) and the contributions of the land to finance funds for cohesion by the budget. Discussion and final resolution." Team proposeer's turn. Miss Lopez de Octariz, your word is to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u132	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. Counselor: We tabled this motion from the Group of the European People's Party as a result of the question we made to the Commissioner for Economic Development and Infrastructure concerning the Proposal from the European Commission, Brussels, on the multiannual financial framework and the common agricultural policy. The European Commission has made public the legislative proposals for the reform of the CAP for the period 2021-2027, in which farmers will no longer be the protagonists of the common agricultural policy since 2021, as the European Commission puts the productive nature, the promotion of business efficiency and market regulation mechanisms at the forefront. This is not important for the European Commission...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u133	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u134	For the European Commission, what is important is cosmetic measures, which are supposed to be social and environmental measures. But it is that these proposals introduce more complexity – as if there were little that already exists, when all the Member States and the sector itself call for simplification – and undermine a basic principle – such as that of market unity – by attacking the common character, which has so far distinguished the common agricultural policy. The European Commission also proposes a new environmental architecture, which, in addition to being more complex, sets greater demands that can reduce the efficiency of farms' farming activities. With regard to market management mechanisms, the European Commission continues to dismantle. It does not provide measures to save market swings that farmers and livestock farmers may experience in certain periods, which is more serious, if any, at times of market volatility such as the current ones. The European Commission insists on selling us cosmetic measures, as it told them, such as the figure of the "genuine farmer", before it was "active farmer"; or, for example, the limits on farm payment, a measure which is more than in doubt and which doubts its legality. It is very difficult for agrarian activity to respond to more obligations with less budget. This simply involves the closure of a large number of farms. All the actors and organizations working in the rural environment and in the various agricultural, livestock and forestry sectors in this field, both forestry, rural-agrarian, environmental, trade union, rural women, ecological agriculture, local entities, prepared a document...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u135	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u136	... to the new CAP. In short, the CAP is considered to be a key economic, social and environmental policy and should aim to promote sustainable food production, generate socio-economic activity and cohesion in rural areas, provide a fair income for farmers and agricultural workers, contribute to combating climate change, achieve the preservation of the environment and natural resources, maintain the quality of life both social and economic and environmental in the rural world, and curb their depopulation. And for this, it is necessary that the future CAP be properly designed, with revised objectives, that respond to citizens' demands, to the magnitude of the challenges mentioned above, and that it be provided with a sound budget and appropriate to the objectives we must achieve. But, ladies and gentlemen, in this new government of Spain, which we have as the non-elected president, we have the designer of this proposal as Minister of the Economy, Mrs Nadia Calviño, former Director of Budgets of the European Commission – "the Calviño factory," they call her – and from here came the proposal for reform of the CAP, which already bears her name: "Calviño cut". Proposal for cuts for the CAP and cohesion policy, and increases in other expenditure chapters. The Breach It was very easy to say: the CAP and cohesion, the rest of it remains. As I said to you, the chief economic officer of the new ministry of the Government of Spain is the one who has designed this CAP and it is surprising how this government is going to go to Brussels to defend what we are proposing – maintaining the CAP with its pillars and its budget – when we have the designer of the cut-off in the Government itself. Amazing. In view of this CAP proposal that we had, Spain and its ex-minister, Mrs Tejerina, together with the ministers of the French, Portuguese, Irish, Finnish and Greek branches, agreed on a joint declaration in defence of adequate funding for the CAP. The question is, will the Sánchez Government maintain support for this statement? This statement said that, they stressed "that the common agricultural policy" contributed "to the European Union being one of the world's main agricultural powers. Thanks to the CAP, the European Union" must offer "a secure supply of agricultural products that meets the highest health and environmental standards, at reasonable costs, allowing European products to be competitive in international trade". "They show that the European agricultural and agri-food sector, as it is open to international markets, is exposed to increased volatility in world prices. "Consider that the common agricultural policy should continue to be market-oriented, but are aware that support for agriculture in the European Union contributes to limiting the effects of price volatility and reducing the impact on external factors on vulnerable agricultural markets. These countries also stressed "that European agriculture must face new challenges, especially in view of the high expectations of society, in particular as regards the environment, the fight against climate change, the protection of biodiversity and health, which reinforces the need for an ambitious reform of the available CAP instruments". "They say that the role of the European Union is essential to support this necessary transformation of farms, so that they can meet these challenges, develop their resilience, increase their competitiveness, and ensure generational relief. "They stress the need to ensure fair competition between Member States and to strike a fair balance between (...) common objectives and tools..."; also "the necessary flexibility in their national application. A common level of conditionality should be established so as to reflect the broad objectives of the CAP when granting aid. Full attention will have to be paid to the simplification challenges of both pillars, in particular conditionality." These countries insist on their agreement that the CAP allows agricultural activity to be maintained in all the territories of Europe. It thus contributes to the vitality of rural areas, including the outermost regions and islands, and to European integration." "They deeply regret that the Commission has proposed, for the future multiannual financial framework (...), a reduction in the CAP budget. "Remember that this decrease in both pillars would pose an unprecedented risk to the viability of European farms, to farmers' incomes and to their ability to meet the demands of the population for healthy, sustainable, affordable and quality food." And "request that the CAP budget be increased to its current level (...), in order to be able to respond successfully to the economic, environmental, climate change and health challenges under both pillars". We tabled a motion after the inquiry and, following the amendments that the groups have tabled, we have come to a compromise amendment, in which we say: "The Basque Parliament shows its support for the agricultural, livestock and forestry sector as essential activities for the Basque Country, both for its contribution to the GDP of the Basque Autonomous Community and for its contribution to the maintenance of the environment, the management of the territory and the population, as well as the transmission of the social and cultural values of our rural environment, and for being an element of conjunction with other activities such as leisure of nature, tourism or renewable energy production. We also say that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in collaboration with the outside parliaments, to move forward in the development of policies that drive an agri-food sector looking to the future, innovative, of quality, sustainable and with social recognition, promoting the integration of young people and the role of women in rural areas, developing mechanisms that provide greater stability to the sector and in defence of the interests of our farmers, farmers and forestry workers". We also urge the "Vasco Government to work and debate with other competent administrations, as well as with the actors in the sector, to achieve a CAP scheme that is not subject to permanent reforms, that maintains the two current pillars – direct aid from the European Union and rural development policy co-financed by the European Union and Euskadi – and the creation of a third pillar financed by Brussels as a mechanism to support potential market crises, so that the sector is economically autonomous, young and able to cope with the future". In the fourth point, we urge the Basque Government to carry out a new document updating the work already done in its day on the cost of the new agriculture in the Basque Country, which was published in 2006, which was "financed by the Basque Government and edited by Eusko Ikaskuntza, taking into account the costs of deregulation, as well as the demographic challenge we face, and which will be presented to the Committee on Economic Development and Infrastructure". There are some issues of the amendments raised by both the Podemos Group and EH Bildu that we have not included in this compromise amendment, because I believe we have reached a minimum agreement. Many things can be put forward, you see the agreements that have been signed both between the Member States I have mentioned to you and between different actors in the sector, but we believe that the amendment that we have tabled is an amendment that reflects the basic principles that the CAP must have and its application in this Autonomous Community, as well as the updating of such interesting work as the effects that it can have on this Autonomous Community or the cost that non-agricultural, livestock and forestry may have. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is the amendment that we have come to agree with the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups. I would like both EH Bildu and the Group We can, if not all the points, some can vote for them. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Mr. Becerra, representing the Podemos team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u138	Good afternoon, everyone. We're not going to talk about political reforms in Europe today. That's not the discussion today. So, what's the discussion? It's a discussion that we want agriculture and farming, and what ought to be our farming and farming for the future. That's our goal. And it's only a political instrument in Europe. What, then, is the agriculture and farming that our band defends? On the one hand, a worthy peasant and cattleman must have the proper conditions of life, and they must have the opportunity to maintain their lives. Our agriculture and cattle must also be fruitful, so that society can produce nutritious foods, and have healthy foods, of quality and of its own. It must also be permanent, to protect land and environment. And lastly, it must be for all of us and for all of us, and in this it is necessary to push the women's part and give them the opportunity of entering into the young. What is the agriculture and livestock we want in our group, which we want in our country? A decent, productive, sustainable agriculture and livestock for all. Dignity, so that farmers can have a quality of life and living conditions and a sustainable way of life; productive, so that they can give us the food our society needs, healthy and healthy food; sustainable, so that they can protect the land and environment in which they operate; and agriculture and livestock for all, allowing access for young people and women. For that the CAP is only the tool, it is only the tool to achieve the goal and you cannot reform the tool without knowing what you want to get to, because otherwise, if you don't know what the goal is, the goal can simply become to collect the aid, which is what happens now. The goal, the reform of the CAP, is to see how we distribute aid, not how we get better livestock and better agriculture here in Euskadi. And that is the failure of the CAP right now. The failure of the CAP is that it has not managed to change anything and, however, what it has achieved is that economic interest, the economic interest that makes the person who has the most is the one who pays the most. To this day, in Spain, and in the Basque Country too, those who charge more from the CAP are, on the one hand, the large companies in the food sector. For example, more than EUR 5 million is taken from Nutrexpa, Cookies Siro or Zumos del Mediterraneo. But in Euskadi too. In Euskadi, the most important members of the CAP are Hazi, who is the Government, Cune, Bodegas Faustino, El Coto de Rioja, Casalbor, Marqués de Riscal, Fernández de Pirola, Fox, Spanish Fine Wines, Bodegas Eguren. This is not the letter of a restaurant, this is the one that is being distributed more than EUR 6.5 million in CAP aid, it is the ones that charge the most in the whole of Euskadi. And besides the big food companies, we have the big landowners. We have always known that in Spain, the most charged from the CAP is La Casa de Alba, the Duchess of Alba, more than 3 million euros. And then, Juan Abelello, 0.5 million euros for a hunting estate. But in Euskadi we also have our own landowners. Those who charge the most from the basic payment in Araba is a company that has the headquarters in the street San Antonio de Vitoria-Gasteiz; who charges the most in Gipuzkoa of the basic payment is a company that has the headquarters in the street Miramar of Donostia-San Sebastián; who charges the most of the CAP in Bizkaia is a company that has the headquarters in the street Gran Via and the second in Rodriguez Arias. That's it. our farmers and farmers. And among the top 10 of Bizkaia five have headquarters in Getxo. These are our "Duchess of Alba" in Euskadi. And this is not what we want, this is not what our group wants. Our group wants them to cover those who have to collect. Today, women only charge 31% of CAP aid and young people don't even pay that, because the CAP requires ownership and neither young people nor women own the land on which they work and therefore do not charge for the CAP. And that's not the pattern we want. That's not the politics of Europe that we want. We want a new tired policy to build a new euskal farm and farming so that we can produce quality nutrients and support environment and property and promote traditions. And that's why we want the help and the money. We want help and money for professional farmers and not for corporations or landowners, for small peasants, for women, for equality, and for young men to reform the sector. And we want the help and the money to build the future. And Party in the agreement obtained by the masters there is no mention of it. Our group believes that the CAP, as I said, is only a tool to build the livestock and Basque agriculture of the 21st century, so that we can build the future that has not been built so far. The CAP has so far not served the purposes that have been created and, of course, it needs to be reformed. So far, it has only served for those who have the most to get land, water, seeds and subsidies. A draft of the current CAP reform regulation introduces a new definition that is very striking. It is that of "true, genuine or real farmers". For us and us in Elkarrekin We can farmers "true, genuine and real" are the farmers who promote equality, it is the young people who guarantee the relief, are professionals, not landowners; and are small and medium-sized farms, which are Most of those in Euskadi. And I regret that a good proposal, a good motion from the People's Party, Mrs López de Ocariz, has become a Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Therefore, we will not be able to support that transaction and we have had to conduct an alternative transaction that does meet our needs, our requests and our wishes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u139	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u140	Good afternoon and thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. I wanted to be positive, but you didn't make it easy for me, mate. I'll try to make a short and concrete speech, see if I can. Before we start, I'm grateful to him for the half-way attempts he's made to the team proposer. Finally we didn't get it, but we're grateful, even though we don't understand it, from the other side. In order not to agree with the newly launched Government in Spain, as reaching such a rapid compromise with the Government here, for, at least, it is quite surprising. We have different views, that is quite clear, and today we saw an opportunity to make real progress. It won't be like that and we lose an opportunity once more. The state of the sector, why are we here today? If we come here today and the first point of motion is to protect the sector, this can only answer three reasons. Or we're in a critical moment, if possible, we're in a critical period, or we're in a physical crisis, which is probably the real point. I'd take the third chance. "Stamos en una Crisis absolutatione equal." A spherical crisis, fewer people working in the first sector, the village and the farms empty for the time being. And this is the consequence of the nicest fatigues that came from Europe, and also of those who will come. I promise you that I did not want to talk about the CAP, that I would not even like to talk about it. Not because it is not necessary, because a CAP tells us that it is a common agricultural policy, but it is seen that we will continue to talk about it for a long time and not because of the benefits it is bringing to the sector. Today, for the sector, the CAP has no more meaning than money, than reaching the end of the year, that it can pay bills at the end of the month, that it traps even with rights, with rights that are not linked to production, but to property. It's really painful to start like this, so today I've tried to come positive, but I don't think I'm going to be able to. The model to which this CAP has led us is absolutely disastrous, but I do not say so. We're in a free market, speculative, in a "save who can." The sector right now – I look the same towards Araba, but it is so – is absolutely dislocated and in a sense of "I save myself and the others they will see". The measures of market controls disappear. We've lived it in the first person. Milk quotas have already disappeared, beet quotas have also disappeared, all quotas are disappearing. Where are we going? If we liberalize this, what do we have left? Low prices for products – and this the CAP not only puts it on the table, but it assumes it and gives it in fact – high production costs – we know that – and dependence. I do not like the word 'dependence' very much; I like 'independence' more, but what we have is an absolutely aid-dependent sector. And together with this last point, I have tried to translate CAP, because I already tell you that I did not want to talk about it and I have found a lot of synonyms, but synonyms that we will understand them absolutely quickly: aid, subsidies, subsidies, compensations, allocations. I could say a lot more. I'm staying with "wives." This sector depends on the CAP, it depends on these alms. Freemasons to make up for the prices we don't charge for what we produce, something so simple. Also alms to compensate for those foods that are no longer even food, are raw materials. We can make it up, we can talk about greening minimalis And here Europe appears, because Europe is always there, implementing measures, but rather re-implanting measures, to deal with the situation in the sector and in this rural environment, which is also bleeding. I have already said, a dependent sector, a sector that we often talk about on top of the papers that is strategic, but we don't believe it either in these chambers. We are faced with a bleed of people working in the countryside, less and less people; with a bleed in the villages, which are becoming more and more empty and depopulation; with a bleed of food, no longer healthy and local, of food; and with a bleed I believe that of coherence, after all. The new reform of this common agricultural policy wants to tackle this decline in the sector, the question is whether it is succeeding, whether this CAP has been effective. Of course, we can say that it has not been effective and let us hope that it is. Today we import and export food as mere merchandise, as mere raw materials, these raw materials that enrich few and impoverish many. I understand the CAP as a guarantee of producing food, producing above production costs, which is so simple, but I have to say, I have to admit that the CAP has completely perverted the primary sector. I'm so sorry. And I'm going to give you a data that leaves us with the common agricultural policy that as little as it impresses. I am not going to talk about companies, because those data we have just heard, that the headquarters have them in the middle of the streets, because they impress a little, but I am going to say another one that is even much worse: 50% of CAP recipients are retired. That means that if the CAP is committed to new incorporations, to women and to young people, it is not succeeding. Retirees need their pension, they don't need to continue to maintain land, or continue to work and collect, I was going to say a burra, but they don't get 1,000 euros of pension after they've been working their whole lives. It's a little, it's a shame, no, we're taking away the sector's right to retire. It's milk. And I'm going to talk about another taboo issue, which is rent. And it is a taboo subject, because I would like to ask you to see if you know at what price the land is, at what price you can rent a hectare to put cereal. Let's see if they know if he's speculating on the earth. I guarantee you that yes, that no one knows what the land costs, that you are paying some deorbited rents and that you are speculating with those rights that no one can touch them, but they are, no one can see them, but they exist. And why do these rights exist? Because we need to charge the CAP. It is time to take courageous action against this model of deregulation of markets – I do not like these words, because I almost don't understand them – that we are certainly not going to like them all, but since Euskal Herria Bildu we are going to take action, of course we are going to face it and, if we really believe in a strategic sector, we have no choice but to face it and to explain it, indeed. The CAP is not united, I have already said, neither to people, nor to decent work, nor to decent working conditions, not even to the conservation of the environment, nor to the depopulation. On the contrary: it is linked to the hectares, to the property, to the extension, to the agro-industry, to the markets. The more rights you have, the more cobras. It's very easy to explain. I'm not going to go around, I'm going to turn it around; now I'm going to the positive part, because I have it too. We come here because we are willing to work, to cooperate, to coordinate, which cannot be otherwise, although I do not like to say that, but I do not understand the transaction they have not accepted. I tried last night, I sent an attempt to agree, because I saw with more concrete measures and the answer was, "No, no, it's already agreed." Well, I was grateful and I really appreciate the intention of the People's Party, but I don't understand this agreement that, honestly, says nothing. Supporting the sector is of no use. Yeah, we can make an institutional statement, like we did last week, but we're not going anywhere. A statement of intentions will come out, nice words will come out, but the reality is that everything is decided up there, that food production is no longer a priority and that in a few years the land will be in the hands of four landowners, if it is not already. Or much worse, in the hands of those companies that have headquarters here, on San Antonio Street. That the Basque Parliament show its support? It's a symbolic thing. It's no use to me. Recognize the functionality of the sector? Okay, we know that. That the administrations move forward and coordinate? You don't have to. propositions not of law; it is their work, for that they are. Let the CAP be negotiated in Europe? For here it is true that each one has his or her responsibilities and would have to not only negotiate them, but also put them in a practical way on earth, down here. And it is true that the last report that said that the weight of the primary sector should be measured, well, it seems good to us, and it is true that it seemed to us a good idea and, in that sense, we are going to support it. The stake for the sector has to be serious, it has to be concrete, it has to be agile. I think it's nothing of the other world that we're debating today. So our transaction is here, but I'm not going to go in and read it whole. We are simply talking about stability; we are talking about local markets; about young people; about women, of course; about local products; about reviewing the new common agricultural policy; about a compensation fund, which already existed, we are saying nothing new, existed and we all know that there were compensation funds for a serious fall... We are considering it; it does not seem to be of interest. Well, we also urge the Government of Spain, which is why I am now surprised that with these new government developments I leave reading and implementation in the hands of the Basque Government, because who better will do so than someone who lives it firsthand and who is close to the people of agriculture. I'm gonna finish it. On behalf of EH Collect our bet is very clear: another pattern, another pattern is possible, and that will be the bet. We bet on another model: agribusiness model, with stability, without speculation, with recognized added value, multifunctional "Of course, who will manage the mountains, who will manage the territory, if not the primary sector?" The strategic plans are fine, but there's only that they should be defined and put in place, if they would not be worth anything. I am here every day in the committees on strategic plans, but I would like them to serve something and to set the guidelines and to be complied with. I don't think it's that much to ask. We'll always be ready to work on our side, not just for the sector, but also for the people who work here or there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u141	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u142	President, ladies and gentlemen: I think it is appropriate for us to talk about the common agricultural policy today, and I think it is appropriate to talk about Europe. We've been doing it for a long time, we're going to keep doing it. This same month, in addition to having MEPs from all the political groups in this House to talk about the future of Europe, we will have a full monograph to do the same about the future of Europe. Europe needs to rethink itself and, indeed, this is one of the policies that are important, important in our country, important in the European Union as a whole. Indeed, Europe is being redefined at the moment. The economic crisis that we have experienced, which we have not yet come out of it, the Euroscepticism that so much sails through several countries of the European Union, the Brexit Therefore, all these questions of today's Europe reach the citizenry. Citizenship also wonders, more often than it should, what today's Europe is, where we are walking, to what extent it protects the citizen and gives him opportunities and, obviously, we have to respond to this. As I said, the Socialists want more Europe, we want more European government, we want more powers, we want more resources, we want more budget, we want more universal policies, but obviously that will happen because there is also more transfer of sovereignty from the states to that European Union. We will no longer make Europe by claiming each its share, but we will make more Europe if we go to common governance and if we go to an economic, fiscal, government policy, therefore, of cession of sovereignty in favour of that Europe as a whole which we, of course, support. Therefore, if we want to have a better European agricultural, social, economic and fiscal policy, we must take the option and this Parliament today, on the initiative of the Group of the European People's Party, proposes that we do so and we agree with Mrs Ocariz's initial approach in her proposal. The initiative and the compromise amendment are in favour of support for the agricultural and livestock sectors, they are in favour of protecting the environment, the rural economy, employment, food, young people and women. The initiative and the compromise amendment therefore call for stability and a better economic and social policy for the sector. We need a vision of the future and of help in the present, and that is what we are talking about today in this Parliament. We are also calling for attention and support for the fluctuations in the food market, for the settlement and improvement of populations and their functions in the rural world, that is to say, all these elements are in the proposal that, unitedly between three political groups, I believe, with a lot of approximation and a lot of coincidence with the other two, we are doing here. Clearly, the CAP needs many policies and reforms. And there are many aspects that are raised here by all the groups that need to be more rotated, but it is also clear, and I have good record of that, because I have had the opportunity to meet with co-operatives, family businesses, companies of all kinds in the agricultural and livestock worlds, and of course there is not a single rift in the whole agricultural and livestock sector to ask that there be no cuts in the CAP, that resources be maintained, that new resources be provided after the UK exits and the budget reduction that implies that the United Kingdom does not contribute to the whole of the European Union, and that is why I believe that today we connect with the livestock sector and the agricultural sector when we advocate that these resources be maintained. That the new funding that has to be resolved for the next few years in the European Union is funding that supports agricultural and livestock incomes, that supports all the elements that are added to it, and I believe that here, with this political approach, with this compromise amendment, we do fully and fully connect with this feeling that exists in the rural sector. Therefore, it seems to us that the compromise amendment we have reached is positive, it gives a step forward, it involves a commitment from this Parliament, and that is why I believe that this Parliament will be strengthened today and that this policy will be strengthened with the debate that we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u143	Thank you, Mr Prinet. Basque patriots. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u144	Mme. President, Congressmen, good evening to all of you. I know it's an hour already hard, your ladies and gentlemen are not used to these schedules; the issue is not the joy of the garden either, but I'm going to try to entertain them for the time it takes for the boredom not to increase. From the interaction of the origin of this motion, we seemed to see something else today. The interpellation that was the origin of this motive showed uneasiness. Obviously, Councilwoman Tapia explained that it is difficult for the Basque Government to do anything with future European budgets when the Basque Government does not allow it to negotiate them and when the scheme for the allocation of funds is done by the Spanish Government. When we understand the direct debate with Brussels much more effectively, not only to adjust the rural development programme that interests us here, but also to demand from here budgets that we understand more in line with our reality and our public and private investment capacity. But the reality is that the motion has come in positive, it has been seeking consensus in favour of the primary sector, the real one affected, not only by the foreseeable reform of the CAP, which is still predictable. The primary sector is the one affected by the socio-economic reality that we live in, the primary sector is the one affected by globalization, the primary sector is the one affected by the entanglement that other sectors and the citizens themselves make of it. And I come, in principle, we'll see, I come in positive. And not to talk about the CAP, I do not come to talk about the CAP, I come to talk about the Basque agricultural sector, because it is also not a new problem what is happening to it, and looking back, as far back as 1992 in this Parliament the first Basque Rural Strategic Plan was adopted, a plan that was a break with the traditional method of making agricultural policy, and it is the first plan that introduces all the externalities that add up to the Basque primary sector, and developed the differentiation of quality, the need for the agri-food industry as a tractor and as an added value to the primary sector, proposed new alternatives for the agricultural sector, such as agri-tourism, and took very seriously the conservation of nature as an approach of coherence with the primary sector and an opportunity for promoting rural development, as well as promoting the necessary rural development to make attractive a world that was already empty and still empty. I say this because many times it seems that it may be happening is from a abandonment on the part of the Administration, and nothing further from reality: adapting to changes, imagining, proposing and doing, has been done a lot, and it is not that we have confused mills with giants, it is often the agrarian policy that mills and giants come together. Also in the first half of this century since the agrarian administration of the Basque Government they began to worry very seriously about the fundamental problem of the Basque primary sector, which is the lack of relief, lack of relief that, by the way, also occurs in many parts of Europe, and it was about turning the issue around and ensuring that the knowledge of farming and livestock would be transmitted among us, that land with agricultural capacity would continue to be used and that agricultural GDP would continue to give figures that did not relegate the agrarian sector to irrelevantness. At that time an effort was made with the design of Gazte Plana, still in force today, in which for the first time it was called to participate actively in the Basque primary sector all the Basque young people, and not only those coming from the agrarian sector, from the rural world, which was what had been done until then. In spite of the new incorpolations in the sector for years, there are few more people left to work in the sector. And this sector, which is small part of the unexplored internal product of Eukadical, must be considered as a strategic. And still more because in this country, Euskakie, the people are aware of the popular conscience. That's the harpsichord. In June 2006, the Department of Agriculture of the Basque Government, with the aim of alerting about what was happening, commissioned a study by UPV experts on the cost of non-agriculture or what would mean the disappearance of the agricultural sector. The study made the economic assessment of the agricultural sector, but in addition to calculating its contribution in food and wood – because, Mr Becerra, wood is also a contribution from the primary sector and from the rural world – it added the contributions of externalities that the primary sector provides, a sector that exerts economic, ecological and social multifunctionality, and the figures were very important. Agriculture essentially produces food, and that in itself should turn it into a strategic sector, now, at the global moment we are living in, any country can dispense with producing food because any food can be obtained anywhere in the globe. If this global world were a raft of peace and harmony, the earth could perfectly be organized so that, despite the environmental damage of food movements, in certain places they would specialize in producing food and in the rest of them in consuming it. But we know that ferry isn't and won't be. That is why I repeat again that a country that is created – and in Euskadi we believe so – we have a duty to maintain our capacity to produce food, and not just to maintain the new know-how. But the primary sector, in addition to food, occupies a huge space full of forests, rivers, meadows, crops, villages and people, a space that, better or worse, has modulated from generation to generation the people of the primary sector, and we must not forget that in Euskadi we exist because first, for millennia, we were farmers, farmers and foresters too. Agriculture is history, it is culture, but today it is the need for future and present. Agriculture is primary production; it takes up the space to produce primary food; agriculture is the food industry that structures primary production and gives it added value; agriculture is forest production and the maintenance of forests and tree cover; agriculture is the maintenance of biodiversity; agriculture is to populate the rural environment and avoid anti-ecological concentration in large urban centres. Agriculture is not just an economic sector, it's an idea, it's a philosophy, it's a way of understanding territory, society and the country. For this reason, we believe that this medium is positive, and we will defend it. Not just because he demands the administrations to work positively for the first sector of eroscal, but because he allows us to speak, to agree, to the necessity of this sector, of its strategic value, and of the cost which would lead us to lack of agriculture. Well, maybe we had to think a little deeper. In fact, if it's true that the administration has a lot of responsibility for the future of the wearied sector, especially the budget police, we should go beyond it. We could have supported the other that they have presented because, in the face of what Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe has said, they look like two drops of water. We met her when she was handed over, we didn't know her until now. And we have understood that the promoter, Mrs López de Ocariz of the Group of the European People's Party, has come to us with a compromise that I believe, she said, has common minimum elements that I believe were sufficient because this motion deserved the unanimity of this House, it really deserved it. And if you analyze carefully, the two look like two drops of water, but, well, they're things that parliamentarianism has. I come in positive, I don't come to criticize, not even a PSOE minister who hasn't had time to do anything yet and I don't know, I really don't know what she's done as budget manager in the European Union, but in the European Union the PP put her in. Because I don't come with the mood to discuss paciguandi We are aware that the problems of the Basque and European primary sectors are varied, but I would like to focus on those which, solved, would allow for faster progress on the rest of the problems. These problems, I would say, are the commented lack of generational relief, a greater involvement in the defence of own agricultural production and the lack of prestige of the primary sector. To deal with these problems, not only must the administrations, which already do them, make an effort for the whole Basque society to get involved in the idea. It is not enough prestigious awards, dissemination magazines or EITB programs, it is necessary that the commercial food surfaces distribute more food produced here, it is necessary more food industry and that the food industry processes more food produced here and it is necessary that consumers here look for and consume more products here. It is necessary that when farmers freely express their criticisms, which is what, curiously, most publicly, also speak in favour of belonging to the sector, they speak of it being a difficult sector, as many, but with their satisfaction, because if one resorts to the media, too many expressions do not especially encourage one to get involved in the sector. It is not that they have to make false excellences, it is only to feed the positive elements of being a farmer or a farmer, that there are, sure, and many. When employers talk about thousands of jobs planned in industry, and young people go to the corresponding FPs, there is a small gap in the need for women farmers. It is also necessary that, when an institutional statement is debated or made in Parliament, I do not know, for example, about bees, a fundamental aspect for farmers and therefore also for citizens, there are no smiles or jets of wasting time. In short, saving agriculture is not the responsibility of one or the other, it is something of all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u145	Go to the end of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u146	Right now. It is a commitment that we should make if we want our country to remain a country. Agriculture is strategic, and even if you don't think about it from the start, at least imagine, make the effort to think it could be and you'll see how quickly it turns out to be strategic. In short, agriculture, in essence, is the art of waiting. The defence of agriculture, on the other hand, does not have much time. And their defense is not of farmers or administrations, which also, is of all and of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u147	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the answers, Mme. l'Espez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u148	Mr Becerra, you have been told by Mr Tellería: "The CAP does not require ownership; it requires ownership". And you rent hectares – you can rent them – and, if you don't, you can rent them with rights or without rights. And if he rents without rights, the one who rents then gets the rights, okay? And prices, as far as I know, are pretty normal. There are speculators, and you know some and so do I. And some have gone on Bildu's lists to Parliament, for example, haven't they? I mean, here they are, there they are. He says, "The goal is to collect the aid." Listen, but if we are in this House every day and we review the budget: aid to industry, specific programmes for each type of industry. There is no economic activity in this Autonomous Community without aid. Why can't the common agricultural policy, the farmers of the common agricultural policy, have support? A unique management for 27 member states that contributes to the maintenance of the environment that is producing food with food quality and safety. Can't this sector get help? But why do they reject aid for this sector? Why are they denied when we are here every day approving science, research...? There is no economic sector without administrative aid. Trade... Every economic sector has aid. Why do you deny it? You have not entered the compromise amendment because you have not, because you have come to demagogy. And I will tell you, Mr Becerra, in the amendment that you proposed to us you marked "farmers", "gainers and "forestalists". He punched them. Who do you think is doing the agricultural activity? Who does? That they're the main agents. And the only point that wasn't picked up is a report that you asked us, that we really didn't understand what you wanted to ask for. A report. There was no new proposal for agricultural and livestock activity in the amendment; there was no new proposal for the incorporation of young people, which is the deficit, that young people should do so, that young people should not go to agriculture, that young people should not go to agriculture. Have you presented any initiatives? None. Does your amendment have any initiative? None. What are we talking about? What have we come here for, doing demagogy? Look, farmers and farmers are the main protagonists and recipients of the CAP. He has demagogued by saying where each has its own address of the farm. Do you know the efficiency of services in rural areas? Do you know efficiency? A lot of places are black spots. We don't have the Internet, we can't get the documentation. I mean, where does he put his residence? Well, it's a place where I have services, of course. That's what you're worried about. I have not seen a measure to get all services to rural areas, not a single measure. The difficulties that exist in many points; in Rioja Alavesa, of course there are difficulties, very important. What's wrong with a big wine farm? Do you have a problem? It's economic activity. And there may be large, medium and small. And each has its own percentage of aid, just like for another type of industry. But what problem do we have with that? Why can't there be large industries in agriculture, large farms in agriculture? Why can't there be? It just seems so demagogic to me, so demagogic that it draws my attention, it draws my attention, Your Honor. We, of course, want a strong, powerful agriculture that does not lose agricultural and livestock activity. And that is why we want that document to be updated again on the cost of non-farming, non-farming and non-forestry, which is as primary as agriculture and livestock, even if you do not think so. Because they're speculators, too, aren't they? Well, they're not speculators, they're producers. Speculators are everywhere. And you don't have to be a farmer, a farmer, a forester to be a speculator. So let's see.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u150	Mrs López de Ocariz, I am not going to go into that game in accordance with the initiative you presented, which, I said at the beginning, was commendable and perfectly defendable. His problem – and that's why he gets so angry here – is that instead of trying to deal with everyone, he first went to deal with the government. When the Government has put its message to you, the curious thing is that when we have tried both EH Bildu and ourselves, we have each made a proposal, who has answered us that no, it was not you, it was the Government. And the initiative was yours. But I am not going to get into that because, I say, your initiative was perfectly defendable. The only thing that we, our group, wanted to bring in was the need to consider food production as the primary objective of agriculture and livestock production. There is nothing in your transaction about food production. Mr Telleria has made a speech – also commendable – about the need for consumers to consume Basque products, distribution, buy Basque products, have not put a single word about food production in their transaction, nor a single word. And yes, in our proposal there were two paragraphs, one specific on young people and on the need to renew the agricultural and livestock sector with the introduction of new young people, one full paragraph, and one on equality of women and men. A proposal on the development of the Statute for Women Farmers was adopted on 12 April. We had a specific paragraph mentioning that, we were the only group that has developed it and yet nothing specifically appears in their transaction. Of course, we had reason to abstain, because we cannot deny your transaction, but what you cannot say is that we are doing demagogy. The problem is that the government has put the word "forestalists" alongside that of "farmers" and "gainers", and I ticked the three words to put "rural world" simply by doing him a favor. But he didn't take it. Do you know how much aid the green agriculture sector in the Basque Country receives from the Rural Development Programme? Two million. Do you know how much the forestry sector receives? 60 million. 30 times more, Mrs López de Ocariz. 30 times more. And you who usually defend – much more than me, of course – the small farmer and farmer, have been forced into the forestry sector. Mr Telleria has already said, "The agricultural system is a way of understanding the country". The way to understand the country that this country has is 2 million euros for the organic agriculture of the future, 60 million euros for the forestry sector of pines and eucalyptus. And they've taken it. What are we gonna do to him? But I also have to say that it is not demagoguey to say where are the addresses of those who charge more from the CAP, because the debate here is how we reform the CAP so that they cover more those who need it most and those who deserve it most, and that they cover less those who do not deserve it. Those who have mentioned that it has the leadership in the center of the main cities charge on average 45 times more than the average of the farmers and farmers of Euskadi. Because the average, ladies and gentlemen, is 3,800 euros and these companies charge more than 150,000 euros each. And this is the reality. Of course, the primary sector needs help. But who said you don't need help, Mrs. López de Ocariz? Of course, he needs it, like all sectors. The question is how these aids are distributed, how they are distributed. And you have made a good proposal and you have been thrown into a sector that needs no more aid, which is the forestry sector. And yet you have forgotten about the production of food, the production, distribution and marketing of food, which is what agriculture and livestock are for, to produce the food that this country needs. But, as I say, what I do regret is that you in that frustration that things don't come out unanimously – that we're not going to oppose, that we're going to abstain – because, somehow, you charge the inks against a speech that I've made, which, of course, was not contrary to yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u151	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH team, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u152	Yes, thank you again, Mrs. Tejeria. This House does not fail to surprise me: we have been talking about the common agricultural policy for an hour and a peak, listening, indeed, to barbarities. I didn't want to make a reply, but I don't know how I do it, I have to go out again because, really, there are things that have been said here that hurt me. First. My colleague Becerra just said it, yesterday I tried it at 11 o'clock in the evening, in fact, is that I tried it, there has been no way, but it is clear why there has been no way, because we are talking about two absolutely different models, a model that bets on people, on proximity, on the local level, on food sovereignty and another model that speaks of any country being able to produce food. Indeed, but the earth will not endure it. I don't know if the others are going to stand, but the earth is not going to stand this rate of speed, of creation, of manipulation and of speculation. There's no relief. Of course, because it lacks profitability. I tell you first person, I milk cows every day at my house. Why don't people want to milk cows? Because he doesn't give money. Nothing more than that, so simple. Of course the Basque Government can do things. We're talking about the Rural Development Plan. It fills our mouths talking about the Rural Development Plan, about sustainability, about green things... I'm sick of hearing it. Let us co-finance the Rural Development Plan, it will mean that we are putting money into what comes from Europe, that we are really making a clear bet and talking about a strategic sector. At the moment, it's just in words. He speaks of philosophy, of ideas, in order to understand the country. Who in this House has taken a swing? Please! There are some ways to run a sector and one of them is from the administration, from the concrete. The sector cannot be run from the administration and from the sector, it must be run from the ground, with mud on its boots. It's the only way to understand that that's not a job anymore, it's a way of life. That's right. They are not two drops of water – Mr. Telleria said – no. I've tried to make it a reality. That was my goal of yesterday in this transaction to talk about the common agricultural policy. We haven't actually made it. We're going to abstain, not because I'm against supporting the sector – who's going to say it, if I live it first-person. I am against demagogy, the paternalism that is often lived in this House and really not taking effective steps. Nothing more, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u153	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u154	I believe that the interest of this debate is in defending and protecting that there is a common agricultural policy and that, therefore, there are sufficient resources for this common agricultural policy to be given as it has been given so far. Some time ago, the European Union opened this melon, mainly on the basis of the situation created by the United Kingdom in relation to the Brexit I think from here we can discuss the part, but if we don't discuss the whole thing, we'll probably be wrong. There will be a common agrarian policy, if it is not left in the hands of the states, in the hands of their implementation in financing, because this will probably disharmonize all the agrarian and livestock policies that have been carried out in recent years and which in part have been able to be sustained by that common agrarian policy. Therefore, this Parliament's bet must be that the European Union's budgets receive more resources. To get more resources, states must contribute more. And this is not something that can be resolved calmly in the European Union because there are those who feel that there has to be less Europe and we believe that there has to be more Europe, those who believe that there have to be less resources, therefore less government, therefore less politics and therefore less competence, and those who believe that there has to be the opposite. This is the meaning of the contribution that we have made here, and this is what we wanted to defend in this compromise amendment, beyond taking advantage of it to redefine or raise some specific points, but the interest, the substance of this debate, must be to continue to demand that the governments, and in this case the Government of Spain, be able to defend that there is no cuts to the common agricultural policy. I can assure you that as far as I participated in debates until a few days ago, just until there was this new government, the political position was very clear in the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, was unanimously defended. It is, of course, unanimously defended in all the agricultural and livestock organisations in the country, and we all shared that a budget cut could not be accepted and that the European Union should therefore be given more resources and countries will have to participate more, with more resources from the common budget, so that this and other needs or bets that the European Union makes can be met. In any case, indeed, as has been pointed out here, there is a new Government, there have been several appeals to that new Government. It seems to me very well that this is a recognition that there is already a new government and, indeed, I share the call on this new government to defend the aid that is available in the common agricultural policy, to maintain, and that this Parliament stands up for it and therefore helps to support this position in European policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u155	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u156	Good afternoon again. Well, I'll tell you one thing, yes I said no, I said no, because I wanted, they didn't say the second part, because I wanted a common minimum. When I spoke by mail to you and to you, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, it was not the government that was talking, it was a member of the Basque Nationalist Party, of the parliamentary group. I haven't even talked to the government about this, I can assure you. I haven't even spoken. They saw the initiative and they told me it's fine with us. Good. I can guarantee that. Because I wanted a common minimum. In fact, in what Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe sent, I saw something that I liked, but that I knew that Mrs López de Ocariz was not going to like so much. And I wanted us to make a great pact for the defence of agriculture unanimously today, and if you were to make a demand that I am very interested in, and that I said in the text, and that the other day Mrs Tapia said, as it is asking the Government of Spain to let us negotiate with the European Union. "I like it," but I'm pulling a group out of the system. And what I was trying to do was have the least common thing. And they're not that different. They're not two different styles, Mrs. Lopez de Arroyabe. You have said and remember, go to the recording tomorrow or last, that you have said: "Look, you – pointing to me, you have said the Basque Parliament shows your support for the agricultural sector", as you say "with support we are not going anywhere". Do you know how yours starts? "The Basque Parliament shows its support for the agri-farming sector." Okay. The second of ours says: "Urges the Basque Government, in collaboration with the parliaments, to move forward in policy development". It says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Government to work in a coordinated way with other competent administrations...". Then there is the demand for Spain, and then there is the updated research, which we also have, that of Eusko Ikaskuntza. See, they're not two different agrarian models. And then, I don't understand you about forestry, the mania that the foresters have. First, foresters are the primary sector, he likes it more or less, and the pine also enters the forest, but in the foresters there are many more trees. I don't know what mania he has, I don't know why he wants to get them out of the primary sector, I don't know why he says "forestalists", I don't know why he says that I on behalf of the government have thrown foresters at him. I insist, I haven't spoken to the government. I love foresters, I believe in foresters, and I think foresters do a great mission. Now, you will have to explain to me – or to a psychologist – why that package to the foresters. But that's your problem, it's not mine. And besides, he doesn't know the forestry sector very well. Do you know the average area of a forest owner in Euskadi? It doesn't reach a hectare and a half. That's the average area of a forest owner in Euskadi. We're not talking about big owners, with thousands of trucks, no, no. Moreover, the pine sector is having a very serious problem, because they do not take pine out because it does not price, for example. And that is also a problem for the natural environment, and it will also have to be managed. Let us not give it any greater importance, but in this country food is produced and wood is produced, which also generates wealth in the rural environment, in the villages. In the villages there are a lot of people who have forest lands. I insist again: I came with animus apaciguandi And sometimes things get caught up in a plump. "The model is different." When I talked about that anywhere in the world can be produced here to consume, I didn't say that's what I want it to be. It was a resource, let's say, a speculative literary resource to try to explain what I intend because, I will continue to insist: a country that is created a country, and in Basque there is social sensitivity to feel a country, that there is agriculture, that it is kept beyond know-how alone, but to really produce food, is something strategic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u157	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the Basque Popular Groups, the Basque Socialists and the Middle Amendors who have signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 69; the supporters are 44; the contrary is 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 25.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-07.u158	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was seven o'clock in the afternoon and eighteen.
