ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "The question is, that the members of the legislative members of the legislative society, Amaia Argrea Romanate Eubert, made to the chief of the United States and Society, are to be asked about the formation of young men who are in a state of social society." Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. Joining the Basques, singin' out for 11 days. We have often spoken of the condition of young men in the legislature. We have all published our attention to the unimpedness of youth, because it is always surprising and disturbing, and still more so in the collective license of a people, and more especially in the collective community of young men. How can this be? It is clear that the great price of marriage, with other affairs, is, for instance, checked by the giving of young men, or prolonged in time. This has its influence, direct and negative influence, as well as in the demography of our country, a very important subject, and a very important matter, which is contained in all the forces of the world. It is evident that the rate of disintegration is going better. There's the data I'm not bringing here because we're all available. According to data, it is obvious that men who have the greatest difficulty in getting a job are the lowest in shape. That's why we took a good look at the new model of the pilot's program of formation that will go on with young people of the least information. Although the discount rate is of importance, it seems to us to be a perfectly suitable program, directed to this group of young men with special necessity, to push the work of quality. The conditions of the program, the end, the economic resources, are, after all, the basis of the verbal question on which the Eubertarian team asks the Artola generous chief. It's highly remarkable that the program is a double aim of the pilot, not only because it is sought for social compatibility. We've often said that a lot of people have to make a career for socialization before they get closer to the work world. It is necessary to take this first step in order to obtain basic abilities, and then to be able to share in the work-world with the more dignified conditions. So we consider the initiative positive. We wait for your details and thank you for your explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Bingpiria, my colleague, always says that it's always increasing to know how to make a eucalyptic. Basque opens a wide world for us. That's why the Euskara's show is very important to continue working for the eucalyca, and I'm listening to it. Focusing, Mrs Arregi, on the question she is asking me, it is clear that Euskadi faces a demographic challenge from the point of view of both children and the elderly. It is precisely young people who are part of the solution to this demographic need, as a people's guarantee and as the future social and economic livelihood of the country. In managing the solutions to this situation of need for generational relief that we already experience, this Government promotes cross-cutting policies aimed at supporting our youth in their formation, in their access to employment and in their social emancipation. This emancipation depends on their preparation for employment and, therefore, training is crucial. Despite the fact that Euskadi has a school drop-out rate of 7%, among the lowest in Europe, we must bear in mind that some young people in Euskadi, for different reasons, have not been able to complete these studies. Being aware of that reality, we have designed a new program, which offers them an opportunity to train and gain access to a job. The Lanbide Board of Directors has therefore approved a call for grants for training actions aimed at this group. With this initiative we take an effective step towards achieving the social and employment activation of young unemployed people who now have a low qualification. It is about encouraging them, accompanying them and participating in a process that is going to mean a lot to them. This call funds training projects that generate training itineraries in basic, socio-personal and technical-professional skills, and with these new skills it favors better personal development and promotes the socio-professional integration of these young people. In addition, the initiative foresees that they will obtain Level 2 certificates of professionalism. The call is addressed exclusively to the group of young people with low qualifications, who have not obtained the title of ESO and who have not continued their training due to a lack of basic skills. It focuses on 13 training itineraries and we have enabled 221 places: 7 for the territory of Bizkaia, 4 for Gipuzkoa and 2 for Araba. Each of these itineraries consists of two training blocks of about 900 hours and another of 950 hours and has the following actions: firstly, prior training in Level 1 certificates of professionalism; secondly, the issuance of Level 1 certificates of professionalism. Credible partial training modules, workplace training and basic training. A budget of EUR 1.5 million has been allocated for the financing of this programme and training is carried out with entities that have accredited the training and are registered in the autonomous or state registers of training entities. The main subjects to be taught have to do with the fields of wood, carpentry, kitchen, electricity, mechanized, plumbing or trade. The beneficiaries of this programme must be young unemployed persons aged between 16 and 25 who are registered with Lanbide. This training is structured into an open, flexible organization adapted to the personal circumstances and different levels of each young person, and these training actions will serve as the impetus and support of this young, unemployed and vulnerable group for an independent and satisfying life.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Second point on the subject list: "I'm asking, "I'm asking you about the juricic report that you made on the Naval boat" "on Casanova Alonso EH Collect members of the team to the Chief of Economics and the Sub-Seating Department of Economics." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u5	Yes, good morning, everyone. In the 11th of October, in this legislature, another proposition was received with one mouth about the state and the future of La Naval fleet. There, among other things, the following was being asked: Let him file a report as quickly as possible, examine and protect it from the legal point of view, economics, and industrial authorities, to buy the assets of La Naval. The report which the Government presented does not at all seem to us to reply to this command which Parliament gave us, and therefore we ask you the following question: Is your report ready to be dropped, and a new report that Parliament will answer to what he asked for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, chief of departments, and members of the legislature, good days to all. First of all, Mr. Casanova, at the question of withdrawal of the report, I will tell you plainly that there is no doubt about it, for the Government has no intention of retreating the report at all, because there is no reason for it. Whether you like it or not, that's another subject, but in right, in business class and in competition and competition, professionals have protected that report, explained and prepared it. It is a report about legal, economic, administrative, and industrial criteria. Before this report, they show what they are and what they are not the chances of helping or taking part in the La Naval firm. And so far I have explained them a score of times, but ready to explain them again, but the report does what the report asks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u9	Well, chief physician, it's not a question of whether the report is my type or not, the report's not what we asked for. First of all, we must say that we do not place ourselves in the question, in doubt, in the professionality or independence of the legal services of your division. We don't question that, but we know some things are worth it and they need a specialist's attention. When you go to the doctor, if you have a specific problem, he'll send you to a specialist, and, incluso, this specialist can send you to more specialized services, and you can end up with the problem you have, the day, the day, or some other special unit. What I say is, that this government often tends to contract foreign services when it is not necessary, and in this case, when necessary, it must not do and do. But it is not only who has made the report, but what sort of report he has made, and the report is not what it is requested and will not be. From the object of the report, it is said that it is the end of the "analizar las potenciales ayudas," and we are not talking about friendships, as we say about the participation, of property. In this report, the possible aids are examined at eight points, and we didn't ask for any reports about help, and we ordered a legal report about the public intervention. And only in one part, in the ninth section, is it planned: "nuevo proyecto emerial." And this is the question: "nuevo proyecto emerial." Tell me how we can articulate public parts "en un nuevo proyecto emerial." But here in 13 lines, unpacking in three paragraphs And then he ends the report in a very strange way, because he says, in the last paragraph of the consequences. –Gazteleraz irakuriko dut gazteleraz Bakarrik dagoelako–: "There would be analysis of various supports in the sense described, for a new successor project of the current activity". What do you mean, the analysis could be done? Txosten honek were a behar zion azterketa horri. Guk eskatu genuine azterketa hori egin zedin eta txostenak ez of Egypt. It is not, therefore, a question whether the report is well or ill done; it is not what was requested, nor will it be. So we need a new report. We're out of time, and you've worked without Plan B, a Van Oror and an external investor, and both of us have dropped, while there's not an alternative, and now we're out of alternatives. So we're asking you to stay in front of the end of the time, for once and for all, to stabilize the interstinent table with the workers and take it seriously, not as it has been so far and as it has been done. Secondly, a legal report that will seriously consider what real possibilities are. You didn't ask Europe for her opinion in an official manner. Europe has not even sent you her answer in a formal manner. It is therefore impossible, with 13 lines, to reject the choice of the division of public administrations, which may be more extensive than is expected. And we must articulate a private investor, not to speculate, not to buy an empty ship, but to buy without a worker, a future wager. And that won't come from the outside if we don't create it here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u11	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. As I have remarked in this report, not only legal subjects, administratives, economics, competitives, have all been examined, with persons of particular knowledge, and this has been done. On the other hand, I have said more than once, but I shall repeat: In order to aid any project with money, so that you can buy it, or get it into the capital of the company, or have other kind of cooperation or other subsidies, which can also be given, there must be some themes, or there must be conditions, as you know. A private investment introduces a project, and the opinion of it is given on a project presented by the private investor. On the other hand, this project is to be managed, and that this project is regarded as industrial materials and employments. But if there is no project, there can be no participation in it. You know that, then, and it seems as if we were taking a turn to a ball, and that we are talking of the same thing every day. But it's not that Congress is asking for it or not, but the will of you is always and it's a very different way of helping people when companies are in trouble. And we have explained more than once, both at the committee and at the whole meeting, but it is not that the will is will, it shows itself, and in so many matters. How many companies do we participate in today? It's not that we participate in several companies of this country, sometimes more stable, sometimes longer, sometimes short-term, others push towards action, but always by a strong project and a strong study, as it is to be done in this case, by means of financial standards and legal criteria. How many companies do we participate in these days? Well, with different involvements, I'll tell you exactly, we've got a part of fun today, using different funds, 35 companies that already work and come after future companies, and other 67 companies just created and startup. And in this case we need the same thing: the legal security, the calm, a little discretion, the private invaders sought for, and articulated, because the word of Monsieur Damborena seems to be that we all receive it, but this is quite calmly, legally, and positively confirmed by legal security. And I'm sure it's gonna be fun, but we need a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Third point in theme list: "I'm asking you, Lander Martín, the Congressman of the Podemos team... "about the next few months of the Euskozoa." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President: Your place in the past few months has been difficult here: The parliamentary seminar of your government has become clear and the budgets are still in the air today. But your government has chosen: he shut the door of Podemos and the Basque People together, as if he had only one chance of meeting them. What's not clear is whether the Basque Country collects a bear hug to you and spreads a contract made in a self-smoking budget or the Jalt Party Jultarians in surternity. President, how are you gonna tie this whole puzzle up? Will the Social Party suffice to maintain the Basque People in the Government until the next election, while the alliance between the Jestal Party and the Euccan Party is built? Do you think, if you're a new mussel of your government, you'll be able to maintain criticisms on the government? I mean, how is your government going to face the next few months, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u15	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. How can our government face him in the future? You see, Mr Martínez, these months I've had from the first day, and we've had the same attitude, I'll do them the same, and we'll do them the same. We have a program of government that deals with society, and our priority is to obey that program. I know the position of this legislature better than I know it well, I know it well, I know it from the first day, and even the last. That's why Eukko's been making all the effort, and he's gonna make it easy for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u17	Look at me, Mr. President, in full effort, you've given us a negative negative of 14 proposals from our 15 proposals, the only negative, the correct, and many times the negative. We at least have a clear idea that your budgets aren't the social ones. We can tell the difference between the marqueine of your government and the reality of your policy. Some budgets which do not contain the ransom of La Naval, will never have the support of Podemos; nor will those who spend a great number of millions of funds for the improvement of employment; nor those which maintain censites for the equality of women; or those who maintain censites for the schools of Opus. We're not gonna protect big companies from taxing budgets, or, like innovation, funds that guarantee the higher rates. They'll never get an 11 votes on us, or two abstentions on our side. You'll never get the support of your left Basque without social paths. Our commitments are not for sale. Because that's our concern, too. Our concern is not only the stability of your government, that we wish the Social Party and the Union to make a treaty with you, but rather that our left policy should lead us forward. Your coherence and credibility are not only our concern, but only to present the Social Party and the Basque People as an alternative of your party at the election time. Our concern is clear: In this legislature there is a preponderant majority to give this town a social path, but the Social Party and the Basque People are looking the other way. If they are to be the stables of your government, our commitment is to give this country a social path, not to maintain for the next year the power of the Jelt Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know whether the question was addressed to me or whether it was addressed to EH Collector or to the Social Party. Anyway, this is really Mr Martínnez, your duty to demoralize reality, really. We can talk about the budget, and we'll try to get the suggestions that are in it, Mr Martínnez. For example: raising public investment 7%. For example: I'm offering 200 million dollars to all personnel to raise their pay, including more support for the RGI, the retired people who need the most of their support. For example: On the left hand side, on the Meazak and on the Oarsoir, launching new support for reviving the economy. Fetching support for innovation will increase more than 5%. To children's college four and a half million euros or more $10 million or $10 million to the Basque Country University. For example: up to 37% of the help to learn the cradle. To push the first sector, to improve the railway net, helps building new housing, to start the health centers of the Ordices or the Arechabals, renew the Bidasium and the Zumarine Hospitals, or to place the Onkological on the public network... These are the methods we can operate in the next few months, and in many cases along with other institutions and with corporations or associations. I mean, to take advantage of the chances of a budget, Mr Martínnez. This is our way, and I still don't know why and why Podemos didn't want to be on that road together. I don't know. You've decided to put yourself against all proposals without offering an alternative. The example of our government is different: use all the options we have for growth and employment. There's enough noise and trouble about it, and our proposal is different here: the neighbourhood. I mean, working together to ensure the welfare of all people and offer new opportunities. Our door is open for these deals and others, Mr Martínnez. In these 24 months Euskadi has progressed in positive, has grown economy and employment. These are our priority objectives, which are essential to ensure our welfare system. Look, international reports speak of some slowdown in our environment and pose unity of action and realism. You have applied it in the state and in Navarre. They've applied it. There they have avoided extra-parliamentary proposals, and they also insist on asking the president of the Spanish government to negotiate with the nationalist parties. Here, on the contrary, they have preferred to continue with sterile testimony and witnessing. You have decided to add there, elsewhere, and subtract here. It's your decision and you'll have to explain it. Not with the approach you have taken here today. The Government's decision in the coming months is to continue to work to ensure growth, job creation and the provision of essential services to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the United States of Kareto St. Vicente Eusiacal, made to the Chief of Tourism, Commerce, and Contsumo, about theuse Acquisite Institute in the Congomous Communmo, in order to make the public understand of some important matters." Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u21	President, ladies and gentlemen, Councillor for Trade, Tourism and Consumer Affairs. I think today is a good day to talk about consumption. Today that begins with the "black winter", this stupid campaign in the world to incite consumerism and that here, that we echo once again also these set campaigns of the United States, we will have, we are already having an absolutely unnecessary commercial bombardment. However, by contrast – today many people are fighting to enter, run and acquire certain products that they probably don't need –, within a week will be thousands of Food Bank volunteers in food shops, where there are many citizens who can't enter because they don't have the capacity to buy, waiting for the solidarity of people who want to donate food so they can continue to feed. Well, we are facing these two realities, faced with these two contrasts, that if we illustrate them a little more with what is happening worldwide, we find, that according to the United Nations, in 2050 there will be 9,600 million citizens in the world – at present there will be 7,300, there will be 2,300 more – and in order to be able to meet the consumption of those 9,600 million citizens, at the level of how it is consumed today, three planets will be needed. We are therefore facing an irresolvable problem right now and a situation that must probably be placed in order of importance with other problems such as climate change, such as peace, such as the sharing of wealth, in the end as problems that are already problems of humanity. Therefore, the relationship between the public authorities and consumption has become a major problem, and you have among your powers Kontsumobide, the institute that was created in 2007, which was launched in 2011, in the government that presided over the lehendakari Patxi López, and since then important work has been done to make consumption responsible, proportionate, appropriate to needs and to be supportive. And, indeed, the public authorities have, must, are obliged to intervene, because in essence we are talking about a problem that directly affects how society, citizenship in the field of equality, moves. While some access to consumption irresponsibly others cannot even do so and have to wait for solidarity or public policies. First of all, Kontsumobide is politically important, it is important because it has to ensure that consumption is safe, transparent, consistent with what is announced, proportional and respectful between what is said to be sold and what is finally acquired by the consumer. And, in that sense, Kontsumobide has an annual plan of inspection campaigns, of control, which as it cannot be otherwise this year, already at this time, have been carried out. It is therefore opportune that in these circumstances, you can tell us what the balance sheet of these inspection and control campaigns is, what that work of Kontsumobide is, and above all it remains with this idea, which seems to me to be the most important, and that from the public authorities it is necessary to make a social policy so that consumption, in addition to being responsible, being safe and all that sort of thing, is moving towards equality and can meet the needs that come to us, which are many and for which we are not yet prepared.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u22	Thank you, Mr Price. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Mr. Prieto, I will begin by saying that I share many of the reflections you have made in this rostrum. Indeed, consumption is a fundamental issue that affects the world we are building and that must therefore be an occupation of public administration as well as of public consumer management, not only in terms of protection of rights, but, of course, also because it has a direct impact – as you said – on which world we are building, for example, as well as very important issues such as climate change. In fact, Kontsumobide approves annually a plan of inspection and control campaigns, and these are actions that reinforce the daily work throughout the year of the Basque Institute of Consumption. As a relevant data I will tell you that in the last year you attended 46,000 consumer consultations. The reason for choosing specific topics or sectors for such campaigns is determined by an opportunity criterion, depending on the complaints or impact that exists in sensitive groups such as the elderly or children during the period in which the campaigns are decided. In this exercise, Kontsumobide is carrying out, inter alia, inspection campaigns on the following matters. Firstly, we have taken action to control the labelling and safety of children's costumes, a campaign which has been reinforced on certain dates and which has resulted in the immobilization of a significant number of garments. These costumes have been confiscated by the inspection service, while they could have posed a risk to the safety of boys and girls. Secondly, this year we have paid special attention to the marketing of online services. Kontsumobide has developed a campaign on the control of abusive clauses in online and telephone formalized credits. It is significant that the 13 contract offers analysed contained unfair terms. Thirdly, a campaign to control letters and menu prices at hotels has also been launched, with 221 inspections in hospitality companies, where 55 infringements were detected. Finally, I would like to highlight, for its social relevance and for the group concerned, the campaign to control abusive clauses in residence contracts for the elderly. Sixteen inspections were carried out, resulting in 15 cases involving so many other senior residential centres. The files have resulted in economic sanctions of up to €4,500 for each unfair clause and, of course, in the obligation to remove those clauses. The facts considered abusive have been, among other things, the review of prices at an index not linked to the variation of the CPI or that the prices of the stay were applied according to the clinical assessment of the resident. The legislation – as you know – prevents more costs from being applied according to a greater or lesser degree of dependence. We have also identified, sanctioned and corrected conditions in contracts that limited the rights of resident persons or clauses that excluded or limited the responsibility of the care centre. But, as I say, these are just some of the campaigns that have been carried out. Of course, there have been many more, many more, such as those mentioned, for example, the labelling and composition of the mold bread, the traceability of the fish or the fulfilment of requirements in the sale of used vehicles. In conclusion, I would like to point out that we are already working on the planning of the campaigns that we will carry out in the next year, as I said at the beginning, we will focus, in a special way, on those services or products on which we receive more complaints or complaints, or on those matters in which we receive specific requirements from other consumer institutions or associations. We are also aligned with the campaigns being carried out from the European Union, always with the aim of ensuring that consumer rights are effectively protected and that they do not see their interests harmed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u24	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, made to the president about the balance of the law." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lehendakari, how do you rate your first two years of the legislature?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u27	Chief of Parliament. Mr. Alonso, I appreciate it very well, and we have plenty to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u29	Thank you, Mr Lehendakari, for the breadth of the answer, very good. Thank you. Short, short balance what you seem to want to do. I have asked you this question, as I do every time we have an anniversary, so that you can show up and give the press conference to the Members of Parliament. Its balance sheet, in fact, is scarce. I'm going to give you a couple of data, because time is passing, we get older and time seems to be passing faster, and we're gone for two years now. You're being blown away by time. He told us he was going to bring, look, in these two years 19 bills. He's brought five; he's approved two – let's be generous, I'm going to put three. 10, 15% compliance with their commitments? It is not in line with his commitments to this House. Reforms? Inability to make reforms. And what is the result and what is the valuation two years later? Well, you live, like Sanchez, on Rajoy's rent. What went well? It was good that there was an agreement in the Cup, it was good that there was an agreement in the renewal of the Economic Concert, that investments were agreed for the arrival of high speed to Euskadi, that other important investments were agreed here. That you are living through the economic reforms that that Rajoy Government has also made and that, therefore, simply by being quiet because you already see that, in fact, the number of unemployed is going down in the autonomous community, but not on the merit of the Government, nor because you have undertaken any economic reform. Therefore, we see that time is passing, there is a lack of activity and that you would have to squeeze a lot these two remaining years. And I have always said this to you: we have supported two budgets and, therefore, we have guaranteed the stability of the government so that you can do it. Then he doesn't do it because he's more dedicated to administering than to governing. To rule is to try to change some things, at least those that work badly, I know, the economy, education, the social protection system... But he's been more dedicated to managing. And I said to him, and I say to him always: for all this work which they are incapable of doing, he can count on us. We are always willing to negotiate and negotiate their laws, their reforms to take them forward, but we are not willing to be the useful fool of their agreements with the abertzale left. That is not what we are going to be and we cannot, then, welcome that Government. I've got you for a thoughtful, balanced, sensible, good-natured person... But I do like you! (Barreak) (Barreak) I have given you the opportunity to back off that agreement, which is not going anywhere, and that we can take advantage of the remaining two years, because the previous two years have been a little short. I'm telling you honestly: these people want you to spend two years doing nothing, dizzying the loser. They won't approve of anything serious. Or, at best, what you want is for you to drown in the Red Sea, because they will stay well dry on the shore waiting for the failure of the PNV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u31	Madam of the Parliament, thank you. Look, Mr. Alonso, he's been on his way from Euská during the last two years. We're filling up the $175 commitments introduced to the program, and all you have to do is look at them every day through the open. They're filling up 15 of the strategic plans that promote our activity. We've received 10 from the 28 submitted legal projects, and we're traducing 9 more, Mr. Alonsuso. Those are the numbers. We have strengthened the foundations of economic growth and human development, the rate of unemployment. For the first time since the crisis began, it's been down from 10%, we've been through five years in economic growth. So it's a good rating, Mr. Alonsso. Yes, we've gone on, but still, as we said before, there's so much left for us to do. We are two years old, and I insist upon four challenges: equality between women and men, immigration, and socialization, innovation, more employment, and better. We're moving forward and we've got a way to keep moving. We can't lose that option. Mr. Alonso, we've made progress. We have made progress in responding to the challenges and country objectives we have set ourselves. Euskadi grows; investment grows, exports grow, people visit us grow; in Euskadi social security membership and employment are growing. And if you read the government programme, and you can check it and contrast it every day with the implementation of all the commitments, all the actions, all the initiatives, you will see that we have, yes, a degree of compliance and also that we have a lot of way to go, as I said in my first speech. You have two alternatives: to contribute to summarizing and advancing on the basis of this program; or to join those who yourselves qualify as populists, demagogues, opportunists... Look, it's okay. Today you do not transfer here the permanent conflict and rift that we see in our surroundings, but neither do we turn this forum into The Comedy Club Look, I can understand the criticism of specific government initiatives and actions, and I take it as an acquiescence to improve. However, the overall assessment deserves a more positive assessment. You are in the effort to announce the end of the world in Euskadi. Read the OECD report published yesterday. It qualifies Euskadi as the autonomous community with the highest productivity, the highest balance between demand and supply in the skills of its workers, the highest survival rate of new businesses, the lowest drop-out rate, we are below the European average in the poverty index, at the head of the state in social spending and we have the best-rated public health. I believe that this is not a result of inertia and profiling, Mr Alonso. Everything is the result of a collective effort, in which we also participate the institutions, I believe. We've got two years ahead of us. Just add up and get better. We certainly have a long way to go. The door to dialogue and agreement is always open, for all parliamentary groups, also for yours, Mr Alonso. Open to contribute, open to invest, open to build and open to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpology made by the congressman of the Uai Uruzuno Golds Collectors to the President, concerning the transfer of rights." Urrudino Sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u33	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. I must confess that the starting-point of this interpelation is located on November 14, which, thanks to the events that happened on November 14th, occurred to us. On the 14th of November there were principally three events which may be understood in three separate ways, but for us there is no doubt about the same source or three events from the same examination of the situation. On the one hand, there was a meeting between you and President Torra, on the other hand, a meeting of technical transfers, and there was also the opening of judicial courses. One time you yourself, when the Catalandians are trying to pecify a self-determination series with the state, you asked your Torri to give PSOE a holiday unit, to try to find disinttenation of the situation, and PSOE has an opportunity to offer it. Catalan, I repeat, is trying to get a refrendum of self-determination right. Same day, in the technical transvestantience of transfers, the government says they won't even give us five kilometers of the AP1s. On the one hand we ask Torah to concentrate and to understand, to trust PSOE, but at the same time PSOE tells us that we have not five kilometres. On the other hand, at the beginning of the judicial course, you ask PSOE 'laltad constincial', but in the very act it is that Mr. Ibar requires the same thing to you, EAJri, or us, I don't know: "leatda constitunal." Because the principles and principles decided in the government are beyond the Constitution. How do you understand that? How can we understand all this confusion? "Lealtad constitunal." We must remember that in 2001 we have heard from the mouth of a P.P. Minister, "To obey the State of England is anti-Constitutional. And the same source of these three events." he is in it, and perhaps next week. We shall have a chance to talk more deeply about it. We agree with the terms that are corrected in you, that we are corrected by you, "imposición," "pertencia desde la obligación," "andeccara," we agree with that. We, and I think I told you a month ago, agree with that diagnosis. The point is, if we share this diagnosis, we can see from this point of view what this strategy is to deal with. A Diagnostic needs a recipe, a recipe corresponding to this diagnosis: My head aches, Nolotil. If it's a headache, it's no good to put a Band-Aid on the head, it doesn't affect a Band-Aid. Now you say there's a deal and it's like there'll be a deal Monday, two lines on the railroad network, and another one you'll tell me about those five kilometres of the AP-1. But not the effect of negotiation, not the result of negotiation, but of a decree from the Constitutional Tribunal. And why is he in this Constitutional Tribunal? Because it does not exist, because there is no regular system where what you say already approved exists in its normal time, because that is not what it is. And Monday looks like you're going to throw ballers again. Mrs. Arangacia, who's here, says what's happening as "hito." Really? "De verdad es un hito?" "Es unproporósito, una tomura de pelo constate." But don't worry, for soon the Minister Marlaska puts things in his place and says: "All right, all right, all three of them, but forget, there's no social security and there's no prison transfer." So if we've spent seven years in a terrible drought. You two, Mr. Erkoreka and Mr. Urkullu, to Zapater, playing president Patxi López. Because this is where we've passed a phase of demercial search. So, what's the strategy, really? Waiting for the weakness of Madrid government, do we get something derived from it? And what do we do to make it happen? Put candles on the mother of Begoña? Or what is it we must do to make it happen? If there were any consent of the members of this legislature, you told me a month ago, with the same interpelation, that if there were any, we should still face this state under better conditions. And I say to you: There is. We all agree. Even those who don't keep it, they're agreed to fill up the self-growth. I'll tell you more: When we say "right-right of decision in self-generacy," they say to us: "No, no, no right of decision! Auto-organization, Guernica State! "I don't know. But this is the state of Guernica for those gentlemen and women. To obey it is to take away all our contrivances, and to have no means or contrivances to make us respect our decisions. This is the state of Guernica for those ladies, and consequently for us. Because here, in this Chamber, these three last parties are bankrupt. So what I'm saying is taking advantage of that, seeing that the Socialist Party is your government member and at the same time is the government of Madrid, I'd like to ask you about the Social Party. What is his contribution in all this? Does it help? I'm counting on the hands. We know how he behaves in other matters. He's telling us that we're stopping each other's life because we've accepted something I don't know where, "sectarian," "suculant"... Those are their terms. Around the Handies, what is their contribution? Do they offer help? At least, I don't know. Does he at least give us the phone of a minister to get together and talk about transfers? Did he get anything? Has the Social Party got anything? What's his role? Does our interests defend Madrid or vice versa, but does Madrid defend his interests here? For, according to what we have seen, the rights of the Basque people in self-organisation are not very likely to matter. So that's our question. What do we do? Transfers are not coming. What's this government got to do with this problem?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u34	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Mr. Uruzuno, "diagnostic," "strategy," "ulcy," "what shall we do, "tow," "deposit," "deposital"... You've spoken Diagnostics and you're based on diagnostics at first. For instance, at some time at a long beginning of your participation we must consider what has happened on a day, and when Diagnostics have been made, we must consider what has been done since that time. Anyway, it's the last question you're planning on your interaction. "What is the President's intention to transfer his jurisdiction? "Well, that's what you're planning on asking me. Well, I intend to, and my government is to carry out the program. My government's program is to obey. And the design to fill the whole state of Guernica is in our program. We have made a report on the transfer which is to be done for this purpose, and in order to obtain it, the Basque Parliament accepted and confirmed another proposal as usual on April 12th this year, and June 28th. In this proposal, the Spanish Government requires a work calendar and a plan. In order to attain it, I sent this proposal to the presidents of modern and previous Spain by letter to the Presidents of the Union. I intend to share all attempts to complete the transfer process. Because I think it's necessary to combine the word and the political action. I may have told you on the precise transfers you mentioned today that hope has recently become an arrangement, and that perhaps not in three transfers, but in some of the three transfers and in three transfers a negotiation has been necessary. It's not enough that the Constitutional Court solved, but a negotiation to take effect is necessary. It was a first arrangement, a first step. This step is considered positive 'Munch' because it puts us on the new stage of understanding each other, the words of a minister or something else. It is true that the agreement about a matter does not yet involve an accidental automatic agreement. As to all rights that are not transferred. I know, and I accept. But let me at least be optimistic today, out of measure, but positive. After all, after seven years, yes, because the Spanish Government has shown another position in this recent negotiation, because it has shown a different attitude in the intervention of the three rights, a positive attitude for the negotiation and agreement we are grateful to. It'll be a small step for you. I can't agree with you, though. I don't agree, because what you've accomplished isn't a matter of no importance. First, because any transfer is of its importance and incestuousness, it is possible to manage it from Euskade and Euscade. And secondly, as I have said, it is a sign of a new attitude. It's not a single gesture that's gonna hit us at the end of 37 transfers that don't have to be handled. 'because it means locking up.' As you will understand, it is not the intention of the President or of this Government to establish self-denial, nor to consider the agreement obtained by considering the importance of the transfer as historical. But it is not, moreover, a contempt or contempt of the consent which the President or the Government has formed. Especially for the two reasons I've been explaining to you right now. It's not an idle matter to handle from Euskka the distance where a road will be near the future, much less two railway lines. I think it's confirmed in both parts of Euka's management. Changing the functions and services of these two lines is important. They are now of Adiaf's headlines, and now the Spanish Government will deprive the two lines of general interest, so that we can transfer it to our member. It is not an idle matter to make a treaty with the Spanish Government after seven years. It is not an idle matter to create a state of trust and loyalty, as far as I am concerned, and as conformable to my discourse. As I said two weeks ago, I repeat: if we apply the word and action to the formula, we hope to succeed, and we will continue to search for the explanation of the Spanish government in order to complete the process of state-states. Word and action, in order to obtain all transfers, even prisons, as well as economic management of the social economy regime. After all, they're all received and accepted in the state of Guernica. They're all laws and they're all to be followed by the Spanish Government. It's their responsibility to keep the law. And I can guess from your words that this government is capable of getting to terms with the Spanish Government, even though the agreements are good for the Basques. I understand the agreement that will be signed on Monday with the Spanish Government may have emptied the contents of your interaction, but you will agree with me, Mr. Urruzuno, that the agreement we have obtained is positive for the euscal society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u37	Yeah, well, I think that's what's happened in 40 years, that's what makes the diagnosis. I don't do all my diagnosis about what happened one day. What happened that day was very meaningful, but it reflects what happened here for 40 years. And we say: this is the condition and situation we must face. "Qué mecanismes exista nuestra disposiciión para impedior que el Estedo apurebe leyes o reglamentos para desactivar o para suprimir nuestras propias decies?" That's the question we think we have to face right now. You said there was a negotiation, and I don't know what the negotiation was called, but I repeat: There has been a decree of the Constitutional Tribunal. If the Constitutional Tribunal has here a regular rule for the application of the State of Guernica, the Constitutional Tribunal has no place in all this, but it must be introduced. And then there's no question of interpretation. You say: "It may be a small step for you, maybe it's not important, but it's important to us." It's not that we see a bottle half empty or half full; it's just that the bottle has a hole in it and asks for water, that it loses all our water. And how do we get that bottle of tampon? For one can be content with the empty bottle and the other not, but the bottle loses its water. And how do we deal with that? That's our question. On the other hand, you say we'll keep going with the calendar. Maybe Monday they'll show them a calendar. I'm supposed to say they have a commitment to a calendar, but fate has insisted on it, it's not something you wanted, but do you know what day the Spanish Government's time is up to present the calendar? December 28th, Innocent per day. Watch out if they'll give us another blow, watch if they'll give us a 40-year-old bite to follow this. Because here, I repeat, that's the problem. The problem of a correspondence between the different elements is, and we believe, and I think I have dropped it a month ago, that we must be placed here in another stage, where we ought to be placed in other political parameters, if it has been long since finished. And I think that's the year I'm talking about the Vice Presidents, 2003, 2004, 2005, I don't know about the Ibarche plan. We think we should get on that stage. And what we're planning is, perhaps, that in this Chamber, a special committee should be formed in this house, where we should have recourse to the transfers that we're not going to give us, to examine them, and to make a way for them. That's our proposition. We believe that here we must create a special commission, because the will of the Spanish government has been very clear for 40 years, how we develop the powers which we have not been able to think of, how we abstract them, and how we perform them at the last moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u38	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Uruzuno, you talk for 40 years, many things have happened, lots of things. And I think there must be some things that have happened in the context. You mentioned the negotiation as indicated by a vice president. Look, I remember what the first President of a democracy has lately said, by making plans for superiority. In fact, from what the Vice President of his time has said, 17 other jurisdictions have been acquired. And I repeat: The deal we've made is good for Euskade. From now on, you'll be a manager of the railway joints, for instance. So we can manage, regulate, explore, and manage the railway lines that have passed through the Euskade. And this is the consequence of a negotiation, which is not only the consequence of a judgment. You have to sign it, you have to count it, you have to negotiate with the Spanish government. I admit it is a step, and I admit that many steps are missing. The two lines that go through the Euscal Autonomy Er-Hornami, for example, are only two of the eleven intervals between the railways and the town works which the Euskonia proclaims to be running through, and I accept it. This is the historical announcement of Eukko Mia and it's in our program, it's in the show between the parties. On the other hand, the jurisdiction over the roads is peculiar, and by this means may be managed by a state of authority, according to the division of jurisdiction within our own community. One more step. And I admit, of course, that AP-68 remains unimpaired, for example, and we are also. Mr Urruzuno, the full implementation of the Gernika Statute is an objective that we have shared and approved in this House. I am not involved in the management of the initiatives carried out by Parliament, which are not the responsibility of the Basque Government, but I do want to say that the Basque Government is going to work hard to achieve that objective. The timetable and work plan is a claim to the Spanish Government, but we are ready, the Basque Government is prepared not only to cooperate, but to draw up a proposal that can be submitted to the Spanish Government with the aim of being taken into account and contributing to the full implementation of the Gernika Statute. Full compliance means compliance with the law, the whole law, including all transfers that are approved in the Statute, which is law. The Spanish Government's first obligation was to comply with the law in its entirety, and it would not be understood, no, that what it demanded of others would not apply to itself. You mentioned in the first speech the approach expressed yesterday by a minister. It does not correspond to the government programme, which affects two political parties, nor does it correspond to what I spoke as lehendakari with the President of the Spanish Government. Finishing up. This government has shown that it does not rise from a negotiation table until it has exhausted all the possibilities of an agreement. This government is not afraid to negotiate, but it is not the one who is speaking to, but the other who has a friend to negotiate, the other who has a mind to listen to it. Our agreement with the Spanish Government has been the result of the union of both; without forgetting the capacity for the working of the two representatives, and the profound knowledge of matter. We'll follow the way I started, Mr. Urzuno, from the high road or from the railway to a pure goal, to fill the state of Guernica with will always on the basis of the wants I've just mentioned to you: the ability and realism to listen to. I think they're useful in any kind of negotiations, including budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpation, Cristina Macazaga Sánz together with the staff of Podemos to the president, about the crisis in the Basque Medical Department." Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u41	Thank you, Mrs. President. Hello, good morning, everyone. Mr. President: On November 15th, part 35. On the anniversary, you asked for professionals, political groups, institutions, and society in general to look at the past. He described Osakidetza as a health care referent who enjoys the support of society. We fully agree with you, Mr Lehendakari. Zurekin beats catz. That is why, Mr Lehendakari, my group put on the political agenda of this country the OPEs doped by Osakidetza, because we thought and thought that Osakidetza does not deserve practices whose origin dates back to the times of Francoism and to which they have submitted without opposition during all these years, in the words of Dr Jaca Arrizabalaga doctor general director of the Onkologikoa Institute until 2008. More than five months ago Elkarrekin Podemos announced a record of demonstrations in which we hit those who surpassed the OPE of their specialty with wide advantage. It was enough to know who formed the courts and had the task of designing the evidence to go on insurance. No one had given us any privileged information, we just wanted to put on the table what was vox populi Osakidetza was warned that there were suspicions even before the examinations were held. In fact, one month before the exam, Mr Lehendakari, he warned that the leaks were common currency in this type of exams. Dr. Loma Osorio, a member of the cardiology court, was commissioned by the Basque Institute of Public Administration, IVAP, to design the theoretical examination in a seemingly confidential manner, and suggested that in the second test, practice, the formula be repeated so that the court would be freed from the pressures it had detected in other previous OPEs and that they had derived in chivatazos to benefit very specific aspirants. Days later, Dr. Loma Osorio sent an email to the president of the cardiology court, Dr. Luisa María Azurmendi, director of the OSI of Alto Deba. I read textually: "I am sorry to say that I have substantial reasons to believe that part of the EPO court to which we belong intends to share the material generated for the second test, with a view to selective filtration." There were about three weeks left for the exam. And he didn't act. Nothing was done, Mr Lehendakari, and a month and a half later, your advisor, insisted in this Parliament that there was no element to question the OPE of Osakidetza. Why, if there's nothing to worry about, is the prosecution investigating, even asking to extend the proceedings? Mr. Counsellor defended the clearance of the proceedings despite the fact that the Administration itself had decided to suspend the award of the places in four categories. –angiology, anesthesiology, cardiology and plastic surgery – in the face of the doped OPE scandal. Mr. Darpón couldn't even avoid the "and you more" to throw balls out. Mr. Lehendakari, you've acted late and evil. Your advisor, Mr. Darpón, has not been up to it. We want Osakidetza to remain a reference and, looking to the future, we do not believe that his advisor is the one who should lead the department on which our health system depends. He wasn't responsible. Initially, we wanted to make the crisis pay to those who denounced the corruption of the OPEs of specialists from Osakidetza, and more specifically to three anesthetist doctors –Roberto, Marta and Manuel – who had the courage to bring to light the clientelism of the OPEs from Osakidetza, and, later, to the opposition people who were forced to repeat the test again, and again without any guarantees and, above all, without any liability. The date for these examinations has been postponed without us knowing why. Mr Darpón did not want to take advantage of the opportunity to clean Osakidetza of customer practices and, as we have been denouncing since the first day, he has only tried to give folder and want to cover up any seeds of doubt about his management and about any evidence of fraud. The road is moving. In recent months manipulation has been detected in the composition of a court to ensure access to a candidate for the head of angiology and vascular surgery of the University Hospital of Álava. The Álava Prosecutor's Office has initiated investigations into possible irregularities in the recent appointment of the head of the Álava Nephrology Service. According to an internal complaint, the candidate who was elected from among the three who submitted to the competition may have submitted false documentation to prove the required professional requirements. Despite the fact that the Prosecutor sees evidence, her adviser, on the question of this Member of Parliament, replied that she did not appreciate the existence of the irregularity reported. In recent weeks, we have known the appointment of the new Director of Emergencies and Women of a Human Resources Officer in Osakidetza, with no experience in this field and obviating candidates with long experience in emergencies. Is this excellence, Mr. Lehendakari? In June we warned Mrs. Múgica and Mr. Soto that they were in check, and you believe that Mrs. Múgica's resignation cleanses all responsibility? It is not enough, political responsibility, all political responsibility, lies with the adviser. Letting the queen die to protect the king, that is the movement you have made, but it does not serve us because we do not know whether it is done for responsibility or for the common good of your party. In any case, Mr. lehendakari, how do you intend to reschedule the Department of Health after Mrs. Múgica's departure, a fact that notes the Fraud of OPE 2016-2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Macazaga, one week ago, last Friday of the 35th part of the Donostala. On the anniversary event, you've used a few words that I've spoken to you about. I asked for it, and I thanked her, Mrs. Macazaga. But, anyway, coming to the subject to recover the situation, the key is responsibility and commitment. Membership has taken responsibility and commitment from the very beginning. Membership has taken possession of this engagement from the very first; To lead the inquiry to the end, and to execute the public employment with the most firm bids. Membership has also made its responsibility for eupscal health system and its value. Looking into the future, Osacides has also taken upon himself the commitment to improving the system. So it is that Maria Jesús Múgica's decision to make those commitments. For by this decision it has been sought: Let's not let the problem created happen politically, you know? You also said in the justification of your inquiry that the causes of the decision of Mary Jesus Múgica have not transcended and the objective, Mrs Macazaga, has been expressed with absolute clarity. Its will is that the management of the public offer of employment 2016-2017 does not politically condition the Basque Government. And this is the reason for a personal decision that the Osakidetza Board of Directors has accepted. A decision that, it would be fair to acknowledge, puts the public interest ahead and helps to prolong the situation, that is, maintaining the same degree of commitment and responsibility that Osakidetza has shown from the very beginning and will continue to demonstrate until the public offer of employment comes to an end with all guarantees. The situation is renewed with responsibility and commitment and we are going to finish the research and we are going to improve the system for the future. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. The measures have been taken from this point of view, we have been quick and cautious. The entire investigation, deep, objective, and transparent. We are responding to all the demands which this parliament has made; we are also engaged with the law and the prosecutor, and we are speaking of perfect transparency. Don't hesitate, we'll keep doing it like that. And it is true, yes, and it has been announced in recent days in the media that the Prosecutor's Office has called Mrs. Maria Jesús Múgica to testify as a witness. As a witness. It will come and provide all the cooperation required of it, as it has done to date, because the Office of the Prosecutor has received from Osakidetza all the documentation relating to the public offer of employment 2016-2017 that can help to clarify this issue in full. And Osakidetza motu himself has done it Now we are faced with an opportunity to create a new model of public offer of employment that is adapted to present and future needs. The proposal has been presented here and the hand is stretched out to work together. Mrs. Macazaga, it is therefore indispensable to the roots of this kind, and in this respect we must consider the decision Madame Múgica has made. I'll ask you for a consideration: you will have to accept that it is necessary to seek to trust his resignation that it should be placed in that context. For, for changes of structure present in a new model, it is necessary to obtain as much confidence as possible, the confidence of all the agents. I beg of you to reflect, and also of the respect we owe to the whole community; Membership has gained the prestige of society in 35 years, a well-paid prestige, and this prestige also from the professionals who have been in accordance with the system of OPE's in the previous regime. At the present day, Osalia is the property of the whole society of euscals, and therefore every one has a right to strengthen and improve this prestige, by improving it in the daytime, but by confessing the public services which he offers at the same time. I ask you to consider: let us assume that Osa is a retired member of the sanitary, and has won the entire protection of the euscal society. The dedication of thousands of professionals and the labor of which he has achieved this prestige. For the first year and 35 years, we'll have to admit that members of the Osaral and Medical Department have been properly handled and organized. Not 100%, of course, but that's the whole commitment to the prestige we've earned. Last Friday, when we mention it again, the celebrations of the 35th anniversary of membership were over, and we can share a clear conclusion: the euscal health service is the achievement of the entire euscal society. To guarantee this achievement and to improve it is to look into our future. To look at the future means to confess the service which Osacides gives to the eucalyptic society. It means defending the Oscar organization and its future. Mrs Macazaga, for 35 years Osakidetza has earned a well-deserved social prestige. Today Osakidetza is a common good of Basque society. Strengthening and improving this prestige is a shared goal. Improving every day, no doubt, but also recognizing the quality public service it offers and transmitting trust, trust. Mrs Múgica, I insist, has acted professionally from the first to the last day. It has completed its work by presenting to this Parliament all the information and also proposals for improvement in the future. Their resignation takes place at that time, once all the proposals for improvement have been put forward for the future as well, and is part of the beginning of a new stage to meet the challenges of the future. María Jesús Múgica herself has understood that the structural changes that arise in the new model require maximum confidence, support and respect on the part of everyone. The Basque Government is grateful for its commitment to this new stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u45	Mila esker, president anderea. Mr Lehendakari, in this very plenary, Mr Darpón said: "As you know, this is not my first OPE in Osakidetza, nor – Mrs Ubera and Mrs Macazaga – the last one we are going to convene." This concerns me, Mr. lehendakari, in the mouth of Dr. Jaca Arrizabalaga this fraud has been occurring since the franchise, with which Mr. Darpón is recidivist. He also said that the process needs clarification for the opposition as a whole and for the good name of the public health system. We haven't been cleared up yet. "It will not shake our hand, whoever it may be, if any irregularity is proved." Irregularities have been demonstrated; in fact there is a repetition of four specialties and there is a change in a model that is supposed to still want to know the cause for which it is presented. And Mr Darpón has not done any sort of search for those responsible for this situation. Mr Lehendakari, the new proposal to improve the management of Osakidetza's human resources recently tabled in this Parliament seems to us to be a possible step forward, provided that the responsibilities of those who have been able to cooperate by action or inaction in the fraud of the OPE are removed before. We also think it appropriate to bring a new model of OPE, but there is a previous step and it is that, as I said, it is not known what fails to this current model to have to change to a new one. We ask you in committee, and in the face of Mr Darpón's refusal to answer us, we have done so in writing, to tell us what is the reason why the current model has to be changed, what is wrong? We don't know. Steps are taken in one direction, but we cannot know whether the direction taken is the right one, because we do not know the cause for which we decide to go that way. The causes for which this is being done are being hidden from us over and over again. From the very beginning, Mr Darpón has drawn up a series of excuses, quartets or blankets to hide his harmful management in this crisis and his policies that support a customer model. From "here's nothing" to "there's no evidence." Oviedo's report was presented to us. Another report has been submitted to us in the last month. –calculation of EUR 14.999 plus VAT, in any case we have asked for it – which proposes a change of model without us knowing what the problem is, Mr Lehendakari. We're in those again. The resignation of Mrs Múgica, whose causes we do not know, has been another mantle which intended that everything should be resolved, because if Mrs Múgica has resigned so as not to politically condition the Government, it was Mr Darpón who should resign. There is no better publicity for Osakidetza, Mr Lehendakari, and also for free, than that of doing things right. And he will have us as an opposition precisely for that, to control his Government and remind him of his responsibility to all citizens. We cannot be spending resources on marketing to clean up the mismanagement of the Department of Health's senior manager. Mr Lehendakari, we want an Osakidetza that is a health care reference and that enjoys the support of society. Lehendakari jauna, berriro ere eskatzen says Darpón salilburuaren kargu-uztea. You stop Mr. Darpón. And professionals, political groups and the whole of society in general will be able to look to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Macazaga, I am used to you not listening to me in my speeches here in this rostrum, what I am surprised is that you do not listen in the committee sessions in which you attend, in addition to those responsible for Osakidetza, specialists who come to explain the reasons for the proposal, Mrs Macazaga. I do not know if you have an interest in listening to me, but in any case I would like to reiterate that we have opened eight information dossiers. The courts, the courts themselves, Mrs. Macazaga, have decided to repeat the evidence in three categories and continue the process in the other 83 categories. We have apologized to the 96,000 people who have participated in the public offer of employment, especially to the 316 people affected by the repetition of the evidence, and we have made a commitment to complete the OPE with full guarantees of equal opportunities, including in the three pending categories. We have undertaken to reach the end of the investigation, we have informed the courts, follow-up committee, parliamentary groups and Ararteko. We have sent the information files to the Prosecutor's Office, I repeat, on my own initiative, Mrs Macazaga. Osakidetza has collaborated with the Prosecutor's Office at all times, and has done so with Mary Jesus Múgica and will continue to do so. We have acted with transparency and prudence, respecting the presumption of innocence of all people, of all those who have taken part in this process, from the first to the last court, from the first to the last professional, presumption of innocence, from the first to the last public official. The explanations have been public, they have been constant, the psychometric study was presented here, the proposals for improvement have been presented here. You receive this information, but neither take it into consideration, nor analyze it, nor value it, Mrs Macazaga. Everything seems the same to you or seems the same to you, and you are able to defend one thing and your opposite. You called for the complete cessation of the entire 2016-2017 OPE and now it turns out that you are opposed to repeating the five reviews that three courts have decided to repeat. You ask that everything be stopped and then pretend that nothing is changed, to you no explanation is worth and in turn everything is worth trying to discredit Osakidetza. But the public service which the will and not the will of the Osacur offer has the protection of the euscal society. Involuntary will and not will, the public offer is bound to complete it with the full guarantee of all its members. Involuntary Osadecial will propose improvements to enhance future public offerings. Mrs Macazaga, Osakidetza continues to offer quality care, continues to improve her public service. Osakidetza has a prestigious crafted with dedication and work of thousands of professionals out of those OPEs that you denounce. This prestige is also the result of proper management, organization and funding for 35 years, which, I reiterate, we thank all previous governments and departments. So and now Osakidetza is much more than a public job offer. Much more. And personally, I am proud of Osakidetza's career and service during these 35 years and in my case especially with a thank you to the previous department in the previous legislature and to the current department led by Councillor Jon Darpón. I am proud of the attitude of thousands of people for 35 years, including the trajectory, dedication, work and generosity of Mary Jesus Múgica from the first to the last day. I feel indebted to an Osakidetza who deserves our recognition as a public and professional institution, above a public offer of employment. Last Friday culminated in the thirty-fifth anniversary of Osakidetza. My thanks go to all those who have contributed to the Basque public health service being supported by Basque society and being the best valued of all communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the president, the members of the Basque Groups of Borja Sémper Passalcals, a consultation organized by our Hand. " Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u49	Egun where you're going. Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mr Lehendakari, in his status as Lehendakari of this country, obviously, I want to ask you about a fact that is remarkable and that is relevant and that is part of the information and political agenda, also social, of the debate in Euskadi and it is in relation to the activity of Gure Esku Dago and uniquely to the result that this platform has had in the recent call made in certain municipalities of Gipuzkoa, especially in the capital, in Donostia. Despite the tremendous efforts of some members of his Government to encourage such initiatives, despite the tremendous efforts of notable members of his party and of this House, his spokesman Mr Egibar and many other leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party, including his own president, Mr Ortuzar, because it does not seem that he is taking this initiative and, of course, everyone has agreed that the failure is remarkable and has been more than evident in his convening in Donostia. So you have also asked for a reflection, that is, you have encouraged a movement, you have encouraged a procedure, it has not worked and you ask for a reflection. What I want to know, Mr Lehendakari, is what reflection you are doing, and whether you are also self-critical about the attitude of some members of your party, particularly your Government, which is what you are most competent to do, but what reflection you are doing about these results and this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u50	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Mr Semper in relation to what may be members of my Government, I think you are out of date already in time. And in any case, if you want to bring him here now, I believe that the explanations have already been given at the relevant time, Mr Semper, let us also be honest in the approach regarding the members of the government. 'Esunk' has always respected that social initiative the citizens encourage.' In the appeal to Donostia our roles participated in 28,000 people, who participated in their earlier phone calls, and all who participated in other places on the same day also deserve respect. And we can share two basics or two basic accounts. I do not believe that social motions can become an alternative to the representative of public institutions, but I believe that the mutations of the people are a representative of democracy and must be respected. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours. SEMPER PASCUAL jaunak: Yes, I also want to clarify one thing: no one questions, at least I don't, the respect that all kinds of citizen initiatives deserve me and neither does this. What I'm asking you is about the political fact itself, which means. Look, regardless of whether there are independenceists in Euskadi, this is an obvious fact that exists, and it is also worth remembering, because sometimes they are not forgotten, there are also those who are not independenceists in Euskadi, which seems to be also an objective fact that we could all agree that there is no social drive in favour of independence in Euskadi. There is no push that drags masses into the Basque streets, which is the protagonist of the social and political debate, I say among the citizens, around the right of self-determination, a hypothetical independence of Euskadi. What does exist is a will to to encourage him, to stop that movement and to encourage that non-existent impulse today. I insist, it is obvious and it is obvious that Bildu is in that political position, of trying to encourage him and of trying to awaken him, and it is no less obvious that there are prominent members of his Government, and also of his party, I insist, also his boss, Mr Ortuzar, who wants to encourage that movement because they participate in it, because they endorse it and because they try to give him a backing to crystallize in a movement that has practical effects. It is also true that you, the Basque Nationalist Party, contemplate the right of self-determination on the bases approved in this House, specifically by the presentation of self-government, and in the end it all converges on the same goal. What I want to say to you, Mr Lehendakari, is that it would be advantageous for me to cling to the outcome of this call in Donostia, for example, to argue that there are no independenceists. What is also true, Mr. lehendakari, is that we are playing with fire. And it is true that the social movement and the citizen movement is very legitimate, but what must prevail is institutionality. What happens, Mr Lehendakari, is that you are doing a bad business, because you are on the one hand encouraging that citizen movement, on the other hand you are giving a letter of nature on the basis approved in the self-government paper and the result, Mr Lehendakari, is a bad business for your government because it has lost political stability, there is uncertainty as to public accounts and it does not seem that you are able to find more support, apart from the silence of the Socialist Party, beyond Bildu. And what's worse, it can be a bad business for Basque society, of social and political confrontation. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u53	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sémper, I don't think you'll succeed in this strategy you've been playing for the past few months, this strategy of making me crazy. Anyway, you ask me as president and as far as auto-organization is concerned, the feeling that a nation is a part of it is very different in this country, yes. Even different political ends, Mr. Sémper, I confess. And it is for us, I think, that we all are, to find democratic communities within this manifold variety to strengthen our co-operation. It is necessary to respect, to listen, and to dispute, and even our proposals from society, Mr. Sémper. The Basque Government, you ask me as a lehendakari, since the Basque Government has always shown its respect for social and citizen initiatives, the issue is qualitatively relevant. I have a high institutional sense, I believe that public institutions are the genuine representation of the popular will. I believe in the active participation and listening of society as part of our institutional responsibility; I do not believe in alternatives to democratically elected public institutions. You insist on focusing, in this case, also on the data on participation, you did so in the first intervention to talk about failure, and I wonder whether your assessment, Mr Semper, would be different if participation had been greater. If what you think is decisive is the quantity, the problem has an easy solution: let us agree to a legal and agreed consultation, managed institutionally and we get out of doubt in an irreproachably democratic way. If this route was not worth it, Mr Semper, what is the solution? Do we hear it or don't we hear it? This is the question, and I believe that we must listen and, moreover, be able to interpret, Mr Semper. In Euskadi they live together, yes, feelings of national belonging and very diverse political aspirations, different, and our task is to find democratic meeting points for coexistence within plurality. Our responsibility, I believe, is to put forward an institutional proposal that is agreed, agreed, endorsed by Basque society and respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "Ju Louis Urana Serano together by the law of the Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, "about the editor of the Emergements of the Medical System of the Basque System." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u56	Mrs. Tejeria, Mr. President, chief physician, compañeros, compañeras parlamentarians. Our question is simple and simple: On the rating of the selection of the new manager to manage Emergence for members, señor Darpón.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u57	Thank you, Mr. Uria. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u58	Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief officers, Mr. Uria. Lehenik eta behin, argitu beharra daukat galdetzen didazun postua Emergentzietako Kudeaketako zuzendariarena her, hau da, zuzendaritza postu batez ari gara. You ask me about a management position, since it was called by a call published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. Such a call determined the requirements for participation in the call; once the requirements of the persons submitted had been verified, the examination of the candidatures was carried out in order to select the person who, at the discretion of the Directorate-General of the public body, was considered to be most suitable for the position.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u59	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u60	Thank you. On 657/2018 Eve of June 25, on the 15th of July, the office director of the Emergence of Osa, came to the call. On August 20th, Monday, the official nomination of the new director appeared in the Basque Country magazine. The New Director has shown himself in some sort of media in common with a member of the Hosa HR property manager, and that's where the nomination was decided. We were glad to have a new proposal for the management of the human resources of Osa, recently introduced by the head of the Medical Department on the parliamentary committee. We're looking into it. The new letter says: a code of conduct, post, and post, to be preferred to the members of the new jury. We hoped, indeed, that there would be traces of the new proposal. In this case, it wasn't. One more chance has been lost. Of the seven that have been introduced, the new director seems to have a much better curriculum than most of the directors who have been introduced, including the former Director of the Human Resources of Osagenot, who does not believe what has happened, and other departments of directors and other departmental positions, surprised at what has happened. The man who has just been named does, as it seems, the least placed in the calling. And he doesn't have any professional practice in his curriculum in handling emergences, he has no experience for the new job he's taken. We've been talking for months about corruption, friendship, criminal decisions. We will not discuss the positions and the new objective, more transparent, and more democratic proposals for the election of Hosamen, but give us an example in the present case, so help us to understand what you would like to suggest, and help us to strengthen our co-operation. Today, I repeat, this nomination is not the pattern of what is meant to be done. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u61	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u62	Mr. Uria, the person you ask took all the conditions specified during the call, proving that he was the right person for the job. As I have said, the conditions of duty were determined in the course of their calling. In fact, two following conditions were demanded: on the one hand, to have a degree of college, and on the other a sense of administration and management. The person you are asking has fulfilled these two conditions, and he has shown the trust of such an important service as Emergence. I will repeat this again: the position he is interested in is a management position of an organization of services of the public body of Osakidetza. The proposal we have put forward in the Committee on Health and which you will surely have known, although you were unable to come that day, is to improve current and future public job offers, and we are ready to share it with all groups, as has been done. We're not talking about public office. According to the Basque Health Ordering Act, in particular Article 27 of the Act, the posts defined as public posts, which are those listed in the catalogue of public posts in the Basque Government's annual budgets, are of public call which set out its requirements, and are resolved by means of free designation among the candidates. You, if I remember correctly, like me, have ever had an assignment-free position and you will probably understand that the reasons are not just to fulfill the degree and have experience, but there is a fundamental one, which is trust. In this particular case, the public call was made through the Official Gazette of the Basque Country on 16 July and after the deadline for the submission of applications, verified the fulfilment of the requirements set out in the call for each of them, the Directorate General of Osakidetza in the legitimate exercise of its powers resolved the same. And you will understand that for the person who has presented the assessment it is not if you have a relative or not in the structural staff of Osakidetza, that it is no managerial position, because many of the people have it in a staff of 26,500 people, and they are judged by their experience, their requirements and the confidence they generate, not in whether they have a cousin, or a brother, or a brother-in-law in any other position of Osakidetza. In fact, there were several persons who were introduced to this appeal, the most suitable person has been chosen for those who have proved themselves to be satisfied with the requisite conditions. Not present otherwise, Mr. Uria, and all this process, as always, has been carried on with transparency and responsibility. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u63	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question of Josu Estarron, of the parliamentary members of the assemblies of Elizdo EH, to the Chief of the Public and Autoberon, to fill up the Ethic Code and to the function of the Committee of the Good Government." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Erkorek: Many times from this tribe, and more than once, we have said that certain ways of acting are not normal, and that we must not take them as normal. And though they are just, yet they are not ethical, nor do they answer those ends which you have received in the Ethics of your Kodigo. And why do I say this? Because imagine that the Basque Government invested more than a million euros in renewing a unique building on the future island of talent and excellence, in Zorrozaurre, the Papelera building. Imagine that the mayor of that villa will sign an agreement with a private design school to give up the space for free, I repeat, give up the space for free. But imagine, moreover, that in the agreement signed in subparagraph (c) of the second point, the reference to works and conservation, it is expressly stated that the maintenance, the conservation and the ornament will run on behalf of the company, but that the mayor will go out announcing to bombo and platter and before all the media, not only the free assignment – as I said of the space – but also the gift of 500,000 euros, of half a million euros, to condition the building, thus violating and in this way the agreement signed by the City Hall itself. Imagine that this announcement would also do so without that private school having even requested permission from the Department of Education to conduct higher design studies in Bilbao. And imagine that in the meantime the mayor of the PNV will present his budgets for Bilbao and what was going to be 500,000 euros in the beginning, suddenly multiply and be 1,200,000 euros, and that is done without even having authorization of opening and functioning by the Department of Education. Imagine now that one of the founding partners of this private design school in the form of a cooperative and vice-president of the governing council was now a high office of the Government in the Department of Education. Well, we can give up the imaginary investigation, because this is a fact, and we would like you to know, as far as you are president of the Public Committee, that high grade, at least, you think, should have made a consultation, and that, seeing that you have not done so, Mr. Erkorek.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u65	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. To answer, sire, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Estarrona, until this morning, to the point you mentioned, we have not received any consultations or charges at the Etica Committee. And among these, among these, there are neither names nor anonymous persons, for we receive all sorts of things, and we direct them all, and we transfer them to them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u67	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u68	Erkoreka jauna, really, this kind of brief and concise answer, making a very cryptic answer to my question, also does not help to dispel doubts that may be around this private school design project and what is happening on the island of talent and excellence, in Zorrozaurre, because it is true, and you will surely tell me in the second round, that on December 15, 2016, the day before taking office, this director leaves the part of his company. In other words, it acts within the law, but it is also true that until this very summer it has not been proceeded to name its substitute and it is something that is also strange. And, as a matter of fact, the private design school called Kunsthal is having a favour deal of obvious benefit and there are institutions that are acting in a way that collides with principles such as transparency, equal opportunities and good governance. And it is also that this high office of the department that must give the authorization created this private design company while it was director of a public training center, another issue to take into account, and while it was also the president of Ikaslan Gipuzkoa, Association of Directors of Public Centers. And of course, we are adding things and the curriculum of dubious coincidences and practices continues to thicken, and I invite you to look at the curriculum that the director of Planning and Urbanization has hung in Irekia, where in his professional career he has six items, and it turns out that one of them is white, is erased, another little coincidence, which makes us suspect of certain issues. And well, I hope in his second intervention, and since time is running out for me to comment on another series of issues, a somewhat more proactive and resolute attitude and not a defensive and justifiable attitude, because we, to be clear, will act responsibly and in defense of transparency, of good governance, which must be objective and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u69	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Estarrona, I will confess that when I read your question, first of all, I began to examine the prejudices of this legislature, because it is a matter that has nothing to do with my department, but indirectly? And, yes, I checked in the last five, six months, that there were three or four of the initiatives you'd presented, basically some verbal and written questions and a written document. All directed to the head of the Board of Education, which is the jurisdiction of this field, and all the answers rightly, rightly, founded, and satisfactory, as I think I have seen things. In those teams, you've had the chance to show your disagreements, not just for fun, but also for an organization that doesn't control this legislature. You mentioned the City of Bilbo here. The City of Bilbo has his ethical code, he has his own Eticic Committee, and he's not under the control of this legislature. And, well, I've seen all this, that you've been able to show me your discrepancy, and now, in some measure, by forcing things completely, you want to make it a political discussion which has hitherto been a subject of public ethics, and to force things completely and to place them here. And now I've seen the same in your question: You speak of behaviour and conduct in general without being identified, or of who it may be. You mentioned a person today, an office. I have a correction to make to you: you say that this person, that office, has a right to make a decision in his power, has a right to it, that is to say, to make the consent of that centre, or not to do it. It does not belong to him, but to another director, who is placed in another section. So he won't have a confession of interest or any personal or ethical problem in deciding the file. Klaro, you will now imagine that I shall not repeat the answers which the head of the Board of Education has so often given you. It is not for me to do so, and it would be altogether out of place, because all this is already in possession, and can be read properly in the shops. But it's not even for me right now to replace the Act of Ethics. I'm a member of the Ethic Board. The Ethical Committee has a binary composition: We form two people in the name of the Administration and two other people outside. So I can't figure out what he's going to say or how he can think about it or how he can make up his mind about it-I can't. Even before this time you have made your plan before the Etica Committee, so you yourself know the way, and if anyone wants to ask or consult anything, the Act of Ethics is open for that purpose, and will give his own answers, but we must always ask what particular person has been in the Board of Ethics, in what particular manner of ethics he has behaved in; not in general, in what manner of conduct, and in general, they are not appropriate. If you do that, you'll make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u71	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, as to Martíne, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chapter of Economics, and the chief physician of the Sub-Spares, of the subway of Bilbo. 'about the line.' Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u72	Yes, thank you. Mrs. Tapia, on which point is 4th of the Bilbo Metro. This is an informal line investigation and a build project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u73	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u74	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Martínez, in the previous Bill of Laws, I believe there was an interpelation made by the Poptular party, and I think we answered it very long and wide, but I have no difficulty in talking about it again when I presented my budgets to them in the Commission as well as I said: I'll mention it later if I have time to make a report about how the public transport is going to be organized in the South of Rekall, Irala, and Bilbo, and that's why there's money in the budget projects of 2019. I also mentioned where to find it, it's in the budget of the ETS, where reports and projects are discussed, there are about $2,50,000 of them, and we've planned $500,000 of euros. Besides, I mentioned that our goal this year was to put the procedure on as fast as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. To answer, Martínnezion is your choice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u76	Mrs. Tapia, I've read you the one that was tested by the Basque Act. "The U.S.P.P.P.S.P.P.P. and B.P.P.P.P.S.P.P.P.P.P.E.P.P.P.S.P.P.E.P.P.P.S.P.P.P.R.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.S.P.P.P.P.R.R.S.R.P.P.P.R.R.R.S.S.P.P.P.P.P.P.R.P.P.P.R.R.R.S.S.A.S.R.R.R.S.S.S.S. Informational line analysis, guaranteed a performance process, and they'll have the budget signing needed during the 2019 budget, in order to build the Moyua-Rekin Project." That was the one who tried this parliament. And where's the agreement left, where's the last few weeks, last week, and what we heard today? What do we do in this parliament, unanimously, with this accepted agreement? I know where the signatures of Mrs. Llanos and Ugarte are, but I don't know where the signatures from Mr. Aduza and Mr. Zorlla are. What am I supposed to do, Congressman? Nothing. I kept my word, we kept our word. And this legal agreement, you know what's been done? This: you have broken it, you have broken it, and nothing else. And what's the use of this song? How many times have we discussed this number of four lines? And the problem is, how many times we've been discussing a subject in this legislature, it's a problem how many years the citizens of the south of Bilbo have been waiting for the subway. How much? Five? Ten? 25? How long have they been here? I don't care. It's been a long time for five, 10, or 25 years. We need a fourth line, Moyua and Rekall, and nothing else. It's in that agreement you broke, Moyua-Rekid, nothing else. It must be done to end with a historical injustice, because it is worthy of the Recval, Iranla, Peñascal, and its 700,000 inhabitants, because this transport is indispensable instruments of social cohesion. What's the priority, a line that goes to the airport or a line that will be used for the benefits of 70,000 people? Tomorrow it'll be clear in Bilbo's march. Why don't you talk so clearly about this time now? Why are you here with new excuses? In an answer to me, you say AHT Bilbor will enter. Didn't we know that seven months ago when we came to this deal? Besides, I say again: Moyua-Rekde. Where the hell does Abando stop? What does the Abando station have to do with the Moyua and the northern line? You say what's on the left side: I must understand that this agreement, signed among all parties, was merely a branch of yours, and it is a pity. That's enough! Tell me today, clearly, whether or not the Moyua and the récéda are going to be projected. Yes or no, Mrs. Tapia?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u77	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u78	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Don't get excited, Mr Martínez. You did exactly what Mrs. Llanos did last week and our opinion hasn't changed. And it's not an opinion, it's a way of doing it. And the reason I mentioned it very clearly, I think. First of all, we had an engagement connected and it was about making a constructive project of the fourth part, and it's almost over. He had to end up in July, so the company has asked for the deadline, and he'll end up in December. That was the commitment, and that's what I mentioned last week. That's clear. Why did I even mention that I had to reconnoitrate an informative examination? Believe it or not, Miss Llanos likes it or not, whether you like it or not, procedures are procedures. Excuse me, it's paper. When the constructive project begins and the changes are generated, it is necessary again, and in this case it is necessary to make an informative examination. But that often happens to us and must be supported. And what we were talking about was that other things should be put into this informative examination, not just now. When we discussed this, Mrs. Llanos used to say it last week, and she's doing a solid checkup in the Biscare Police Department that belongs to the whole Bilbo. And since we cannot set it above the city of Bilbo, we must consider all this in this report, and the procedure is a procedure, and we must proceed in a legal manner; otherwise, when we start a work without it, it may be difficult. And you know that very well. So, informational analysis is necessary. The first interval is about to cease, and you will know the results, and it will be sent away, and it is what we will do: It will be preferred to this informative report as quickly as possible, and to the whole solution to the southern Irana, Rhoda, and Bilbo, who are all citizens of the Union, and citizens of Bilbo, in order to give the best answer to all, agreed with the Indulous Foru, and with the council, and, of course, considering what this lawyer says, but we can never put our will over the legal and legal report. And you know that. All this, then, will be the solution of all conditions. But, for the time being, commitments, projects, and things that have to be put into action are in progress and nothing has been dropped back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interadectition, in Tinixa Guanche Suáz Together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief of the United States and Societys, about the patriarchal civilities of the women and men." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u80	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chiefs of departments, good days to all. The equality between women and men is important together for Podemos, and not because it is now November 23 and the 25th manifa of the month is near, nor because I have come to this day with a violet point on my breast flank, or because I use an inclusive language, no. It's a crucial place because we want to feminize politics because we're a political feminist project and we're looking at our political roles in the family view. "Y eshuciac una análiss críticon de abulsuate todas las poíticas, también las sociales, unde una óptica en la iopta que la igia alidas de unagres los de mureres de hombres de po bonners palavera que noen uneqia día." In all their politics and actions the Euscal population must introduce the general aim of abolishing differences in all such cases, and establishing the equality of women and men. This is the mandate, it's your mandate, and I don't say it, Emakunde says it. Faced with this, an inter-institutional plan to support families that does not incorporate the gender perspective in a cross-cutting way, a plan preceded by a pact in which we saw the famous picture of the echinite, a plan that has much to improve in terms of equality, because it is aimed at the promotion of birth, even if you want to adorn it so that it seems not. And you have forgotten also, not only to insert the genus as a real transversal variable, but you have forgotten that there is even a reply that there is an age and a century to preserve. You have forgotten the women who form families which are not of your own Arabs, the poverty of woman's face, the poverty of woman's face, and you have forgotten to lay down the signs that are connected with the genus, which is not only to appear separated from the sexes in the data. "Un plan, señora Artolalli, que qued ha ade dequinita, colcándose el mism lungar en el pone al, pero solo es el de family; And that's what you're doing in your department. In the reform of the RGI, which is not yours, but you negotiate it, the gender is neither present nor expected and, in addition, it takes on widely surpassed concepts, such as "violence in the family", which it does is to make women invisible. It does not take into account how poverty affects women and how it is not possible to suspend GIR for those who leave work because they are on maternity leave. And that's what his department does. In the Inclusion Plan we find that the principles of action do not mention equality between women and men, equity, gender perspective, nor do they read the impact of measures from that perspective, nor are there specific indicators. The Sinhogarism Plan has no trace of gender mainstreaming. It has an axis, specific guidelines, but you will know, or should at least know, that transversality is not driven like this. The Employment Plan does not appear either in the objectives or in the indicators, although you have tried to sell as you could what is neither written nor applied in practice. And what to say about Lanbide's daily practice as manager of income guarantee income. Almost two years we've been bringing here performances that show a lot that your department doesn't look at women. The data backs us, the Ararteko backs us: 65% of the complaints, all for you and a very high percentage of recommendations and unsolved resolutions. Baina ez hori Bakarrik. Asteazkenean emakumeen mobilize bat egon zen. Haiek bost urte jarraian daramatzate eskatuz Gobernu honori, éta zehazki zurre saillari, mugi zaiteztela, ez tenzuela babestu indarkeria matxista, éta is gehiago, emakumeak kriminiizatzen jarraitzen baituzue poor izagatik, Bakarrik egoteagatik eta ez jakiteagatik nola gainditu Lanbideren oztopo guztiak. And at the same time they were women of Maghreb origin accusing Lanbide of institutional racism, of the abandonment of women whom you claim to consider a risk group. Could you explain to me the meaning of being considered like this and then mistreat them in the day-to-day relationship with the institution? Is this the way to implement gender in the Co-existence Plan? But it doesn't stay there. It is that in the memory of budgets they admit that almost half of the women who apply for financial aid for being victims of sexist violence would be left without it. It has been a long time since my colleague Eukene Arana reached an agreement with the majority of this House to urge your Government to rethink this aid, and you, under the excuse of amending laws and covenants that do not go forward, are still not moving forward, and we are concerned about that, but above all we believe that you, who recognize that a reflection is necessary, at least in the speech, should occupy you. Because it seems that an important part of this aid has not been granted because of bureaucratic issues, issues that we are very much afraid of, as we said at the time, have to do with the difficulties created by the access criteria themselves and that is an approach, apart from injustice, is a worryingly patriarchal approach, and this, Mrs Artolazabal, is worryingly unfair, but, above all, it is inconsistent with the fact that they then take their hands to their heads because, for example, the Ertzaintza in 2017 would have recorded 3,758 episodes of violence, that is, only on the part of their partners or ex-partners. Real and specific alternatives are missing, and this is not an option, it is an obligation and a duty, a duty that in the light of the data your department is not addressing on a priority basis. And this is what we're here for today. We want to ask a clear and precise question, because equality is not just a task for Emakunde, and among the subjects that his department deals with, and indeed all those of this Government, this element must not only be central but must be a priority. for we wish to think together that you are doing something to improve the progress of the Podemos, and that it is not a lack of interest to persist in this crab-going, but an awkwardness. We want you to tell us, Mrs Artolazabal, how you are going to prevent the work of public institutions in Euskadi from responding to inequality, how you are going to prevent them from leaving us at the stand, how they are going to make women who are experiencing domestic violence, in the context of the couple or in any other area encourage them to report, how they are going to prevent domestic workers from staying on the street and not meeting the impossible requirements of the GIR. Explain to us, please, how. It's been a few months since Podemos that we explain that the Euskalk is leaving women in the corner, that politics doesn't come to all women, and that to plan again is indispensable is the conception of a woman who is a victim of violence, and that it's necessary to talk about those women who are alive, and this has to be stopped. So please answer us: What measures will your department be able to correct the differences between women and men of employment and social politics?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u82	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Thank you, Mrs. Guanche, for your question. Euskakia has a high degree of human development, so that it fills eight places in the world. Nevertheless, although high ranges of development are still differences between women and men in our country. There's still a lot left for us to get real equality. Euskadi, as I said, enjoys a high rate of human development, the eighth place in the world, but despite that high degree of development our country is no stranger to the inequality of women and men. We are still far from real equality. In the last index of inequality between men and women in the European Union, Euskadi ranks ninth behind the countries of the north of the Union, the Netherlands, France, the United Kingdom and Belgium. In 2017 in Euskadi 89 companies and entities recognised as collaborating entities for the equality of women and men made a commitment to advance such equality. 57 collaborating entities are participating together with Emakunde in the project of the Bai Sarea network of entities and companies to have a collaboration space that multiplies the impact of the equality plans of the different organizations. The activity rate of women stands at more than 11 percentage points away from the activity rate of men, and the employment rate of women has increased over the past 25 years from 27.1 to 44.3; that is, 17.2 percentage points. The rate of part-time work is falling. In the precarious indicator published by the EPA, Euskadi recorded 44,9 % in the second quarter of 2018, 5.7 points less than in the fourth quarter of 2017, and 8.4 points less than in the fourth quarter of 2016. And the rate recorded in our community is below the state rate. But we are aware of the disadvantaged situation in which women find themselves, we find women, when they enter the labour market and when they develop their professional career. That is why, in the planning or design of the measures we implement, not only from the Department of Employment and Social Policy, but throughout the Government, we take the gender perspective into account. The Basque Government is sensitive to the situation of inequality between men and women, here and throughout Europe, and is therefore taking decisive steps to turn this situation around. The commitment to equality of the Department of Employment and Social Policy and of the entire Basque Government is real: we have budgetary, human and technical resources for this purpose; we actively participate in the management bodies of the equality plans for women and men led by Emakunde. It's almost 30 years working for equality. In short, we will also adopt a new equality plan from the Department of Employment and Social Policy and in the government's own programme for this legislature 35 initiatives stand out to promote equality between men and women in our department. We must not forget that the budgets of each department are made by looking at the gender perspective, and I would like to remind you, Mrs Guanche, that we within the department have three competences in this area. One, in relation to single-paying economic aid for women victims of gender-based violence. The second, the specialized information and telephone service for women victims of gender-based violence, SATEVI, 24 hours. Finally, integrated resource management in the area of gender-based violence, which is an information advisory service. In addition, we also grant grants to projects that fight to eradicate violence against women and in 2017 we grant more than 140,000 euros to support nine projects. But we also develop measures with a gender perspective in the Employment Plan, the Plan Gazette, the Inclusion Plan or the Strategic Social Services Plan. The Strategic Plan for Social Services, for example, contains an action that we have taken in the study on access to the Basque system of social services from a gender perspective. In 2019 we will complement it with a research with a gender perspective of access and the use of the systems of the Basque system of social services, but also, we are collaborating in the definition and implementation of an inter-institutional plan that aims to reduce the wage gap between men and women in the field of work. Our plan to tackle the wage gap contains, from the responsibilities we have in the department, a programme of SME support for the diagnosis and implementation of measures to reduce the wage gap, corporate accreditation and certification in the field of responsible conciliation, a pilot programme of good practices in companies for responsible conciliation and a line of specific subsidies for the development of studies and support for the implementation and implementation of responsible SME reconciliation programmes. Another form of violence against women in which we are focusing is that suffered by homeless women. Until recently, they were invisible and included in the category of "no roof", not taking into account their specific needs as women. They're vulnerable women wherever they are. This Sunday, November 25, is the International Day of Non-Violence against Women and is the World Day of Homeless Persons. In the field of conciliation we have presented for the draft budgets a pioneering measure in the state: the more than EUR 19 million for the financing of permits to non-pregnant parents. Also the new programme for 2019 incorporates aid for the hiring of disadvantaged groups, with more than €700,000, and the million euros that will be allocated for unique projects that generate employment options for disadvantaged groups. I also highlight, within the local employment plans, that we offer employment opportunities at the local level for groups including women. Obviously, this department is actively working against inequality. All this knowledge serves as a tool to cross-cutting the gender perspective, in the implementation of the different programmes, in all political, economic and social spheres. We have experienced a determined incorporation of women into the world of work and instead that of men in the field of care has not yet proved to be the same. To this reality we must add the fact that the ageing of the population increases the need for care. We have been working on the account of affection for several years, and to create new parent-collars, which are more suited to our present family structure and needs. It's the essential elements that we're developing in veins and the positive view of parenthood. This is the context before which we have to deal with the policies that we develop and that we have to implement, and we have been doing so for years, policies in the field of equality. Co-responsibility in care, the positive vision of parenthood, as well as the real and effective incorporation of women, are a fundamental element of the policies that we have been developing in the Government to achieve the real equality of Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous, for the answer. I'm glad to see you acknowledge that you still have a way to go. However, it has not been possible to resist making a genuine act of propaganda. But, well, we're used to it. You speak of the difference in employment and the good place that Euskadi occupies with regard to the other countries of the European Union. But it forgets to say that, for example, there is a 10% difference between women's access to employment between Euskadi and Sweden and Denmark. They've been talking about equality for 30 years, working already from a deep and transformative transversal perspective, well that's what we're talking about. You tell me about skills. And to me what I'm going to say, is that this isn't going to be your txoko txoko. With regard to the Inter-Agency Plan on Wage Breaches. Two meetings so far; 20,000 holders, two meetings. It also does not have, or cannot be guaranteed in its own words, specific budgets around this element. And then, the truth is that we are somewhat surprised to see the degree of contradiction with which we are talking when we ask – sorry, Mr.Prieto is that I don't hear myself thinking – when we talk about investing money in ending the wage gap and at the same time investing money in deepening the wage gap. This year we see in the budgets three large groups of economic aid, which are supposed to expand their department's budget on gender equality policies. The first ones, you help with the birth. Birth policies simply applied from that perspective always, always, always harm women and have nothing to do with the wishes and possibilities of people to expand their family by combating inequality between women and men. Secondly, we find in these budgets: conciliation aid that Emakunde recognises in his own gender impact report of budgets that are "perverse", and you put them as aid to combat inequality between women and men and that is indeed perverse. Third amount of financial aid in your department to combat inequality. The co-responsibility grants to people who have not enjoyed the maternal discharge that, if possible, we will see in the autumn. Your big headline this year is inflated and it's smoke. Let us, from this perspective, question the commitment to the equality of your department. Your budgets have a neoliberal quality, and even more, the most negative influence on your economic model and budgets is the women who are suffering. And we don't see the intention of transforming all that. But it's not just that, it's that you pose a number of elements here in your great act of propaganda, and you forget to mention, for example, that since 2017 there has been a gender impact assessment report on social exclusion and poverty, which you should have kept in a drawer, because we haven't heard you regulate it, nor of course it applies on the day-to-day work of your department, nor of course it is contemplated in all the retaliatory plans that you could have followed if you had more than ten minutes to tell it, because we evaluate gender in each and every of the initiatives that your Government presents. And there you have a historical duty with women, because gender has a determining character in the configuration of the routes of exclusion and does not apply with a specific axis, Mrs Artolazabal. But it is also not worth questioning a fundamental value in social policies, because you are the highest representative of the social policies of this government and you have here questioned the value of equity when you came to tell us, in a case of suspension of RGI to a woman with four children, who only complied with the law. You're questioning the value of equity. For your government and your department, equality and justice are not the end of preference. We question your commitment. Your model of development is never human development, nor is it bearable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u85	Thank you, Miss Guanche. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u86	I, Mrs. Guanche, will do propaganda acts that, of course, is not my style and I don't usually do. We usually say what we do, that's what we do, but you always, always, always make me a criticism without alternatives, and you think you're the only defender of equality and social policies in this country. And, man, I think that here we have also done, we have been doing and will continue to do together with the rest of the agents and institutions, because we are clear and we are aware that we have a problem in this country, which means that women and men are still not equal and that we therefore have to implement policies to eliminate this situation of inequality. We are aware, as I say to you, that the most relevant indicators in relation to employment and the situation from a gender perspective reflect this situation of inequality – I have recognized it, I have never hidden myself and I have never hidden myself, and I have also commented on all the initiatives that are being implemented from our department and the rest of the Government – although we are also seeing that there is a sustained growth in the volume of contracts, that women are becoming part of all employment. We are also aware that the largest number of contracts being signed have to do with temporary contracts, in which women are one of the most disadvantaged, but this, Mrs Arana, I have also acknowledged, and that partiality is also a form of contract that women suffer in an abusive way, if I may be allowed. Partiality is also more prevalent in contracts signed by women and a number of situations are also taking place that, with the measures and policies we are pursuing, we believe we need to alleviate. You also have responsibilities elsewhere, and I have not yet seen any initiatives being implemented in this regard. We are also applying the principle of gender equity in the Strategic Employment Plan, and we do apply it in the different plans that we are implementing from this department and from the different departments. We promote incentives to support the generation of employment, to specifically promote the integration of workers into vulnerable groups, women in this case, because we have greater difficulties of integration. Since Lanbide too, training for women is being adapted to the needs of the labour market, obviating gender stereotypes, because, Mrs Guanche, we in Lanbide do not discriminate against anyone. I'm a little sad that it's funny what we're telling you, because I think it's a very serious matter and that, of course, I don't get any laughs. We also encourage the presence of women in sectors where they are underrepresented. We support the improvement in the quality of women's employment, reduce the rates or we are pushing for the reduction of the rates of temporality and partiality, but we still have a long way to go. We are moving forward in the corresponding conciliation, and I emphasize the word "corresponsible", because if the conciliation is not co-responsible we do not move towards equality. And we are in an internal reflection in the department on all the aid – I have already told you this on occasion too. The aid we have is aid that has helped families in this country and it is true that we have to do this reflection, in which we are now immersed, in order to adapt them to the new times with the aim of improving and eliminating those inequalities that both men and women have. And it is a reality that today's society has a major demand for care, for awareness, for positive parenting, for co-responsibility and for the realization of current support, with the aim of ensuring that reproductive tasks do not place a burden on women alone. I, Mrs Guanche, reiterate the commitment of this department and the entire Basque Government to equality. It is a real commitment, with budgetary, human and technical resources, and we are aware of the needs and act accordingly. And it is clear that we are improving, despite the fact that the situation of women in employment is also improving. Much remains to be done, but I believe that with the initiatives being implemented we will move forward on this real equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u87	Thank you, my lords. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group of Laura Garrido Körr, made to the chief physician of Eplegus and Polytic Society, about the permanent mark of the profession." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Well, this government said that at the beginning of this legislation, it would make changes in the protection system, and we don't see these changes. This government announces at the beginning of the legislature and, in particular, at a hearing held in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy on 22 March 2017, changes to improve the protection system and also to improve the Basque employment system, Lanbide. In particular, we were announced the implementation of the fingerprint, but we have to say from the People's Group that, after two years of legislature, that balance sheet is quite negative and we have no real news about the already effective implementation of the fingerprint as a means of identification in Lanbide. That is why we are asking the Counsellor whether it is the intention of this Government to implement this identification system in Lanbide as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u89	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u90	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Thank you, Mrs Garrido, for your interest in this matter, as it gives me the opportunity to inform you with details on how we are progressing in the implementation of this system. The Basque Government is implementing the fingerprint as an identification mechanism to improve the management of Lanbide, also with regard to income guarantee income. This is a technological, effective and modern measure, in which we have been working in detail since the beginning of the legislature, but given the complexity of this measure, its implementation must be carried out with all guarantees and reliability. To this end, we have carried out various tests necessary for the proper functioning of your technology. Once the pilot phase has been completed and the test carried out in 10 offices in Lanbide has been completed, the extension of the service is scheduled for March 2019. The use of biometric data in the identification and provision of services on a voluntary basis is being developed according to the planned implementation schedule, the stages of which are as follows: in principle what we did was a pilot phase in the office of Txagorritxu, Vitoria-Gasteiz, at the end of 17; between April and September 2018 we developed a test phase that was implemented in 10 offices, which is to be extended until March 2019, since the adjustments that have been detected in the implementation of the application make it necessary to stabilize it. To date there have been 9.005 people who have voluntarily used this new biometric identification system when granting their data. Finally, now, at the end of March 2019, the extension phase will be developed to the 42 offices in Lanbide. This identification, as I have already mentioned on numerous occasions, will be for all users of all Lanbide services, and to facilitate relations with the Administration it was essential to enable a simple, fast and secure system of identification and authentication, as well as signature of citizenship. That is what we have done to improve the management of Lanbide and RGI, and that is what we are in, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u91	Thank you, Mrs Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours. GARRIDO KNÖRR andreak: Yes, Madam Counsellor, what happens is that you have to say that they are quite late. You went from denying the need to make changes in the social benefit system to recognizing that something had to be done after surrendering to evidence of data and social criticism. After two years in the legislature, we have to say that the balance sheet leaves much to be desired or that there is practically no balance sheet. Rather, six years, because Mr Urkullu has been ruling in this autonomous community for six years. Look, how's the fingerprint situation? You announced two years ago, as a very new announcement, the implementation of the fingerprint, which is by the way a measure that you rejected when the People's Party brought it to this Parliament with a specific initiative, then you told us that it had nothing to do with it. We do, indeed, want the fingerprint to be an effective control mechanism and to improve the harmful management of social aid. But I say to you: what matters here is to know exactly how this issue is, because it seems that you are extending sine die Of course, you announced to us two years ago, in an appearance on 22 March, that they were going to implement measures to improve the management of the social protection system. It's almost two years and you come here with a very poor balance, counselor. It tells us that they have carried out a pilot phase with tests and that they will start implementing this measure in March 2019. I mean, two years to actually... And we'll see if it doesn't slow down, like other issues that you promise us and that are slowing down sine die There is also a problem with the chronification of RGI collectors in the system, because Lanbide simply doesn't work. You have not yet put in place a comprehensive reform of Lanbide that really puts this service in favour of the employability of the employed and the people receiving social assistance. You have not yet brought in, because it has been brought in by the two groups supporting the Government, a reform of the existing legislation. Therefore, Commissioner, the balance sheet, as I say to you, leaves much to be desired in this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u92	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u93	I, Mrs Garrido, have come to answer you for the biometric system of identification of people, not of the Lanbide model, nor of the reform of Lanbide, nor of the reform of the GIR, but, if you wish, I also comment on questions relating to that. The proposal for reform is put forward in this Parliament, is now paralysed, or is waiting for better times to be agreed with the groups. I still lack the proposal that your group is going to make in relation to it and, therefore, as soon as we have it, we will be making progress on this model, on this new income guarantee income that will come to protect all citizens. We understand, at the time of the implementation of the biometric identification system, that it is a complex system. It's 42 offices. A new model of attention that, for reasons that you all know, has been very questioned and has been a debate on issues that had nothing to do with Lanbide's improvement, but with other series of issues, and that of course, we, understanding that we really believed and believed in Lanbide's improvement, have implemented and are implemented. It is not easy, Mrs Garrido, two years are nothing when it comes to implementing a model of identification of this caliber, and therefore, I do want to highlight the work we have been doing since Lanbide to improve the quality of the system we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. fourteen points in theme list: "Interrogation, by Maria del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muntain, the members of the Popilative Groups of the United States of the United States, the Plantion, and the Chief of Housing Houses, to organize economic activities and to arrange large stalls for the purpose of the country, and to stop the change of the law of Commerce." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. As I said, Mr Councillor, and as you are well aware, the issue of this inquiry is one of Decree 262/2004 of 21 December, in which the Governing Council of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country approved the sectoral territorial plan for the creation of public land for economic activities and commercial equipment. A plan that generated broad consensus and limited the maximum surface area for commercial equipment. The European Commission approved what we referred to as the Services Directive in 2006 and which had as its date of entry into force on 28 December 2009. Directive eliminating the requirement of economic proof or economic justification that was being required for the establishment of large commercial establishments. In our autonomous community we wanted to be pioneers in the transposition of this Services Directive, and by Act 7/2008, amending the Commercial Activity Act, the legal regime for the establishment of large commercial establishments was amended. What was done was, by the third final provision of the said law, to establish the mandate to revise the territorial sectoral plan of commercial equipment within one year, in any case, before 28 December 2009, which was when the directive came into force, which was certainly not done. During 2009 and beyond, amendments to laws were passed at the state level to incorporate the principle of the Services Directive, so that this set of rules that came to transpose the Services Directive into the state legal order did not coincide with the manner and manner in which the legislator of our autonomous community, this House, had done so a year before 2009. The legal order of the State stating in a very clear and explicit manner that the authorization regime for large commercial establishments should be sufficiently reasoned and justified in a rule of legislative rank. The Act itself, which is the Commercial Activity Act, sets out requirements and obligations that are not met in the sectoral territorial land-use plan for economic activities and commercial equipment. A rule of a regulatory nature in accordance with the legal nature of territorial and urban planning plans and instruments. This was not corrected at the time and resulted in an appeal in 2010 to the agreement of the City of San Sebastián for final approval of the General Urban Planning Plan of San Sebastián. And from 2010 to September 2015, we all know – in this House it has been discussed on many occasions – the journey that this appeal has had and that concludes in the judgment of 3 September 2015. The Court held that the sectoral territorial plan for the public creation of land for economic activities and commercial equipment does not have the status of law and that it does not sufficiently justify compliance with the conditions of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality, and therefore declares null and void the management regime established in the PTS, because it entails a restriction on the freedom of establishment within a regulatory rule, which leads to the disappearance of the normative limitations for the peripheral establishment of large commercial establishments and thus puts at risk the model of commercial equilibrium which was defended in this Chamber and which was intended to be achieved through the amendment of the law in 2008. What is now appropriate is to give legal status to the management criteria that we want to apply in order to pursue with the aim of fostering a model of trade balance, and which is also consistent with the recent case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union which bases restrictions on grounds of general interest, such as environmental protection and land management. More recently, the Court of Justice of the European Union has pointed out that the reason for protecting the urban environment can also be an argument, an acceptable limitation to limit the establishment of peripheral trade to population centres, and that it can have a perfect fit for reasons of general interest. Mr Councilman, believe me that it was very good news to hear from you last November 7 that you shared with the opposition groups, I am referring to the compromise amendment that We approved between the EH Bildu, Podemos and the People's Group, to which you or the groups supporting the Government did not join at that time. What we came to say is that it is necessary to amend the Commercial Activity Act because it was what gave legal certainty, as the judgment had said, and that later the modification of the sectoral territorial plan would come and, well, we also asked that amendments to general plans which They were still pending, as they would await these changes. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor – this last of the general plans did not say it in committee, did he say it in the press? – but the reality is that today, in November, we are all at the same point of agreement. Something we couldn't, we didn't know, we couldn't do it in June, today in November we all agree. And this is very good news for me. And we need to know how we move forward to achieve the goal. And the objective, from our point of view, is that in this legislature we can make the amendment of the law and the amendment of the PTS. And that would be our goal, and I believe that also yours and the groups that support the Government. I get it. For us, it is essential that we work in the most effective and efficient way to achieve that change, that we are not left standing by different government agencies, and that the end of the legislature and we have not made progress would be a failure. I believe that, after the time that has elapsed, this requires speeding up the procedures. You, counselor, announced this change to us, told us that there by spring – spring is from March to June, it's three months – I would like to know if you have a set schedule. Do you have a plan made? There are many ways to make that modification, I would like to know what its purpose is. I think we need to be as effective as possible and, therefore, since we are in that consensus that we all agree on the objective, how, how, with what timetable, are you planning to achieve these amendments that are pending? Because you announced that there are general plans that are paralyzed. And these general plans are important for the urban cores. These general plans, in addition to the aspect of commercial equipment, have many other aspects that are very important for these urban centres, for these cities and for the towns. We therefore believe that this requires urgency, because time from 2008 to today, because I think it is already time, ten years, and that forces us, first, to understand that we have already achieved it, and, secondly, to be agile and effective.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, you ask me about the purpose of our department on the amendment of the Commercial Activity Act in order to respond to the annulment by the Supreme Court 2015 of the determinations of the 2004 Sectoral Plan for Commercial Activities and Equipment, which imposed limitations on the maximum area for commercial equipment. And I have to make it clear to you, in this first intervention, that we are not going to propose an amendment to the Commercial Activity Act, but what we are going to do is to draw up a new, specific law, with the wording of "the territorial regulation law of the major commercial centres". Upon receiving the text of his inquiry, I was struck by the doubt that perhaps it was I who led him to this error in my appearance on 7 November on the occasion of the presentation of the budgets; however, I have reviewed the video of my intervention and at all times I am talking about regulating the matter by law and preliminary draft law, but without making any reference at any time to such regulation being made by amending the Commercial Activity Act. I must also point out to you that this change in regulatory support does not necessarily entail a postponement in the regulation of this matter; what we are going to do is replace what was previously to be a decree approved by the Government with a bill that we will bring to Parliament and that will have to be approved by Parliament. Going to the substantive point, I think it is appropriate to review the facts that have led our department and the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption to adopt this criterion. The Governing Council, at its meeting on 22 March 16, agreed to initiate the review of the sectoral territorial plan for economic activities and commercial equipment, approved, as you know, by decree in December 2004, pursuant to the judgment of the Supreme Court of 3 September 15. When I enter the government I meet with this mandate and we have been implementing the work from there. As you know, the Supreme annulled at the request of two companies in the sector the restrictions on the creation of large commercial areas covered by the sectoral territorial plan because they considered that they were contrary to the freedom of establishment of services enshrined in the European legislation known as the Bolkestein Directive. In compliance with this agreement, as I told you, our department began to work on the partial revision of the PTS in relation to the major shopping centers in collaboration with the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption. The progress of this review was subject to a hearing, public information, to all territorial public administrations and interested persons, a process that ended on 18 March this year. This public information process received the input of a natural person who showed that a reservation of law to limit the establishment of commercial centres can and must be interpreted from the Supreme's judgment. In other words, a limitation of rights collected through a rule with a rank of law can only be established by a rule of similar rank and not by a decree. Well, considering that this observation could be justified and in order to give greater legal certainty to the future regulation, it was decided to carry out the corresponding legal consultation to the Directorate of Legislative Development and Regulatory Control of the Basque Government. And the opinion issued by the Central Legal Service concludes that the limitation to the free establishment of commercial centres based on environmental and land management reasons requires a legal reservation, i.e. that it must be addressed by law and that the predominant competition is that of land management. Just take this opinion of the central legal services into account, I had the opportunity to inform you in the Committee on Finance on the occasion of the budgets, on 7th of this month, and to tell you that we have launched the procurement of technical assistance for the elaboration of the future law on the territorial regulation of the major commercial centres, a law that, as I was telling you, will reflect the spirit, principles and content of the revision of the PTS that we were dealing with. Why didn't you make this decision before? You already know that there are different interpretations in these areas, and so far legal services and technicians considered that there was sufficient authority in the existing rules to give legal coverage to the limitations that are intended to be placed on the freedom of establishment of shopping centres. They considered that what had to be done was to properly and unquestionably substantiate that such restrictions were justified in the general interest and applied for environmental and land-use reasons, because of the impacts that large offshore shopping centres had on non-urban land, rural environment, mobility and the transport network, and not for the purpose of protecting local urban trade, which was the economic or commercial motivation that the Supreme Court found incompatible with the Bolkestein Directive. In fact, it was interpreted that there was sufficient qualification in the Commercial Activity Act, as amended in 2008, as you have commented, article 13 of which states: "For the establishment of large commercial establishments, the regulation contained in the legislation definitively approving the Territorial Sectoral Plan for Commercial Equipment of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which is the instrument of territorial planning defining the implementation of large commercial equipment in the context of the Autonomous Community". Even in the third final provision, which you also mentioned, the need was established for a revision of the PTS then in force, in order to bring it into line with Directive 2006/123 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market. In other words, it was considered that there was sufficient legal basis to regulate these limitations in a new sectoral territorial plan approved by decree and that what had to be done was to provide a more precise basis for the environmental and spatial planning reasons behind them. However, as that doubt arose in the public information process on the part of the PTS, in the sense that a generic transfer of a law might not be sufficient, it has been decided to convert the work already advanced into a specific draft law, because we consider that the important thing in this matter, especially with the trajectory and what has rained, is to make a regulation with full guarantees, covering any eventuality that may occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u98	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u99	Mr. Counsellor, indeed, you, according to the transcript of your appearance, said that you were committed to drafting a preliminary draft law that reflects the spirit of the principles contained in the PTS. You know that by amending an article of the law that already exists you can get this. You know that. You have chosen to make a bill, a new preliminary draft. You haven't answered what I asked you. Is it your goal that we have approved the preliminary draft and the PTS in this legislature? Is that your target or not? Or am I going to fear the worst? Because look, the sentence is very clear, and we all knew that legal certainty, because it says it very clear – I understand it to myself, so look if it says it clear – requires a legal text, not a regulation rule. A legal text. And you know that, your department knew that, and so did the legal services of the department. Of course they know, from minute one, from September 2015. Here there has been an appearance in 2016 of the councilwoman of the moment and we all knew that this was a modification of the law. Of course we do. Then you hire a company to make an advance of the PTS. What a coincidence she's only hired to make the advance. What was it, to have us entertained for two years? Counselor, I was thinking that you were coming here to tell us the truth, but it is that you are making us a proposal to extend another two years and finish the legislature without approving anything. That is a failure, a tremendous failure in the face of this situation. Leave this in the air again? Mr Councilman, I want two things: a compromise, which I am not going to tell you to do by amending the law or by a new preliminary draft, to be agile, a commitment to approve these two texts, and a timetable for approving these two texts in this legislature, and to end the legislature with these duties done, because otherwise I believe that they are more dynamising this initiative, which is the fulfillment of a sentence. We are left without PTS and a law amendment or a new law that stays in the air. Counselor, this can be done, because if you want agility you can do it in many ways. It can be done by the Government, if it really puts all the meat in the roaster to achieve that goal; it can be done by groups that support the Government by bringing a bill, and we do it much more agile; we can do it among all of us, since we all agree, and if not, we will have to do it, as a last resort, from the opposition groups. Mr Councilman, I think it is worth it to devote a short but effective time to this and to make a decision on how you want to deal with this, but the objective cannot be other than to pass the new law or the amendment of the law and the PTS in this legislature. So, counselor, I'm asking you for a calendar. What's your goal? If we really agree on the goal, because if we don't, it's hard. But it is an aspect that when you arrive you know that you are in the air and that in these two years we have dilated the time very much. It tells me that the approach, the interpretation... Look, I think you have very good workers in your department and I'm sure they also had this interpretation of changing the law on top of the table. Another thing is that you have not chosen it as a priority or as a main criterion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u100	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u101	Thank you, President. Mrs López de Ocariz, I have not come here not to tell the truth, nor to raise delays, nor to go by the branches. First, I have told what has happened in a matter which, when I enter the Government, I already have an agreement from the Governing Council ordering a revision of the sectoral territorial plan on the basis of the situation in which certain determinations concerning the large shopping centres were suspended. "We have chosen to make a new preliminary draft instead of amending the Business Act." Well, it's just that it's not our whim, Mrs. López de Ocariz. The Government's opinion, in which it ratified the need for a reserve of law to deal with this matter, also dealt with what would be the best way to deal with this situation properly. And what they say is that, in fact, it would be possible for this amendment to be made on the basis of a retouching of the Business Act, but they do not consider this to be the best solution. One possibility would be to amend the Commercial Activity Act, introducing in the same limitations as are deemed necessary and justifying them for reasons of general interest. However, given the connection that the subject "commercial activity" has with economic regulations, it would be more appropriate to introduce such limitations for the implementation of commercial equipment through a different law, independent of the Commercial Activity Act. To the extent that the areas from which these limitations are addressed must be land management and urban planning and the environment, what they mean is that we understand that the predominant competence is land management, and it is therefore appropriate that the bill be promoted by the competent body in this area. Well, what I'm doing is following the script and the recommendations that have been made to me since the legal opinions, because in this matter we're going to try, as far as possible, not to make mistakes from the past, to prevent them from succeeding challenges, which is the risk we have in all of this. Things need to be well justified from the point of view of environmental reasons and from the point of view of land management. These justifications must have specific weight in order to be credible and, of course, nothing can be justified in reasons of trade balance between one operator and another, because if you are not giving the lead to the success of resources, and that is not at all the objective that we can introduce in the modification of this matter, because we are talking about the European directives being transposed, they are in force, we already have the experience of the past and, of course, we need to walk with lead so that things can be done with sufficient so that they can withstand the resources that will surely happen once again. You were talking to me about deadlines, and so on. I said it on the 7th: our goal is to have the preliminary draft bill prepared by the department by May next year, so that it can be processed with all the necessary reports and approved by the Council and presented to this House by the end of next year, so that there is sufficient time for that bill to become law once it is dealt with by this House. Once we bring the bill here, I will somehow be fulfilling those commitments and objectives that I manifested on the 7th day and which I ratify today in this rostrum. From that presentation in the House, you too will have to work to get that bill to become a law. I believe that here, in this House, from the point of view of what the objectives are, there is an important consensus on the subject and on the issues that should be taken up by this bill, but it must be done with sufficient intelligence to make what is approved, in this case by law, have the power to withstand the resources that will surely, I think and hope, occur.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u102	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 15th point in the theme list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Environmental Plant and Housing Department, the Global Efficence Aranguren, the environmental license of the SL company." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. All members of the legislature, good morning. Good morning, Mr. Arriola. A year ago I showed you this photograph of Glefaran on a committee, and I suppose you've known the case of Glefaran, Gueñas and Zalla, which is situated between us and Zalla, and has been infected almost three years ago by the people and neighbors. And you worked to reduce this infection, but it wasn't enough. And it hasn't been enough because the limits of contortion in the company are too high and they're too high because they've got their environmental license and activity license irregularly. As you know, the owner, the company, asked for a license from another company that was there, and, by surprise, got it. He succeeded in a process of irregularity, and thus, for instance, he got the license of the company shut up for five years and performed another activity than that of the previous one and another. It's amazing that he got it, but it's more amazing that you didn't do anything to get rid of it. And my question is: Why haven't you done anything to remove that authorization and have another license to ask the company for their own activities?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u104	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Becerra, you do in the justification of your question and, in some way, also here in this rostrum right now two statements that surprise me. He says that it is questionable the transmission of the environmental authorization granted in October 16 to the company Biomasa Glefaran when taking over the cogeneration facilities of Pastguren. And I am surprised, because the will of the legislator, as reflected in article 9 of the Act on Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control, is that environmental authorizations can be adapted to plant modifications without starting everything from scratch. And I must also tell you that the change of authorization for this company was made before I got to the department, but that I do not know at all that it is questionable. And as for the irregularities in the activity licenses to which he refers, he knows that the permits are granted by the local government, the municipalities, so in any case he will have to address them, not the Department of the Environment. Therefore, to your question I must answer you that it is not our department's intention to cancel the environmental authorization granted to Glefaran, but to ensure that its activity is carried out at all times in accordance with the conditions set and with full guarantees for the health of the population and the natural environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u106	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u107	Mr. Arriola, you know the license of activity, yes, that the council provides, but it's like your series of integrated environmental powers, and you didn't do anything because PNV is behind this company. The owner is near PNV, and those who sold him were from PNV, and those who gave him that license were irregularly PNV, and those who allowed him to be polluted for two years were PNV. Theirs, the irregularity of the PNVs, but yours is responsible. Socialists are responsible. And now you're protecting irregularities with your activity and you know it. And so far as you maintain this argument of environment, if you have a responsibility, and all the work you will do in the future will be useless if you do not repair it. And in this case, the weirdest thing is that you're all getting in court reports, not PNVs. You're getting it. Then think about what you're doing wrong to pick up your charges. The point is that this permit was given irregularly and that you have to work it out, and if you don't fix it, this company will continue to pollute it. And you know that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u108	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u109	Mr Becerra, this is not a new matter in this House. What is to be asked is why it is now brought back when the incidences and inconveniences caused to the neighbors by this company have been largely resolved. And they have been resolved by the inspection and control work carried out in these two years precisely since the Vice-Council of the Environment, which has forced Glefaran to make the technical and operational improvements necessary to reduce its emissions below the indices marked in the modification of the environmental authorization that we made last December, lowering by half the limit values of the previous one. Let's see, how do you tell me that we're not doing anything and that we're allowing irregularities because this company owns the PNV or the Most Holy Mary? But how do you have the face to come to this rostrum to tell me this so joyfully? Come on, I'll stay in pictures. More than 30 actions have been taken between air quality requirements, inspections and controls at the facilities in the environment of Zalla and Güeñes, which have been fully reported to the municipalities, to the neighbouring platforms and to this House. In fact, there have been no incidents with this company since March. Do you know the particulate emission values in the last few months measured in the opacimeter placed in the chimney itself? In June an average monthly of 18 micrograms per cubic meter of air when the limit is 75; in July 15 micrograms; in August 23; in September 17 micrograms. And in addition, these data are being monitored and verified by the mobile unit located since June 18 in Güeñes, and now we are going to carry out the same air quality control campaign in Zalla, with this mobile unit and the station located in the municipality. I have said this many times, our mission is not to license or close companies, but to ensure that environmental requirements are met, every day throughout the year, without looking at whether day 29 is announced a citizen debate in the Antzokia theatre in Zalla and without considering the interests that may be at stake in the region in the upcoming municipal elections. And coming here and affirming what you say, Mr Becerra, is not serious and I believe, or at least considered, that you were more serious in this and other matters.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u110	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interadectation, Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors to the head of the Board of Education, on New Hezie 2020s and adaptations." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u111	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mrs. Uriart. The LAMCE law has no protection from anyone, even in Congress of Madrid, in different Basque laws, even in different parliaments, but it has no protection either in the townships or in the community of language. Not in theory, though this Board of Education we've seen in practice has put it in force by New Hezie 2020. This is an example of what has been comfortable with LOMCE and is comfortable, another example is the agreement with the Secretary Wert in 2014, the agreement of keeping speech models, the agreement of preserving A, B, and D to maintain the agreement against the cast-off model of Catalan. And that ought to make Mrs. Uriart think of it, the head physician of the Board of Education. Moreover, in eupsca, even in other languages, we see the results of the last diagnostics and various reports. That the equality between LOMCE and Hexion 2020 is equal to both. Both aim at excellence and talent, both of them leave the equality of choice on a second plane. Both of them have an externalization in the third and sixth grade of the First Education, though here is called a diagnosis of evaluation, which is in the fourth grade of DBH, and in the second grade of Batxiergo. It's true that at the second level of high school, it's not applied and that it's made of radioactivity. Either both of them, an early selection, must be chosen in the third level of DBH. My son chose it this year for the fourth level of DBH, so you'll tell me. Religion is consistent, and must necessarily be devoted to public or private schools. If only a single student chooses to offer religion. There is a level between certain areas and others, some of them are excellent, and some of the other areas are legal. I will not say, it is not necessary to say which are the best, and which are the best, unfortunately. The troncal lesson determines the state, and even elective lessons. There has been a reduction in the autonomy of the students, a reduction in the social organs, though here also there was a partial agreement with the Minister Wert. The gradations between students have been pushed. It must be Spanish, if the family decides that way, to be a formal language, and thence follows the agreement of a, B, and D, for the support of the patterns. Professional Education was established. The lesson "for the desertion of terrorism" is created and here, compared to it, the Heren day's program comes from it. So what we don't know is that this government used to apply the novel to disguise it, or because it matches the quintessence it really receives. The question is, that this organic law has been introduced from 2013 to us, as the rest of the laws have been established before us. For, though it is said, that we have exclusive competition, which is declared to be theorized, unfortunately, we have not whole grasps, and in the past years it has been narrowing it, it has been pressing it. The separation of competition is very clear, very clever. The central government specifies the linear competition of 55% in the case of our non-commissioned language. 65% of the rest, and even in the potential reform that Celae has announced, no change. Now, Elisabet Celaá, as I have said, has announced a change, a reform in the Organic law of Education, and we have learned by means of means of communal communications, Mrs. Uriart is ready to help us in that way, and change the LOMMCE. So we can understand how this Board of Education can be prepared to change 2020, because New Zealand 2020 has its base in LOMCE because it has it in 8/2013. Even if there were a new organic law and were to be regulated, the hands of the EAE, the competition, would be the same again, and we would continue to depend on Madrid until now. That's why today we had the right to ask for information, to find out exactly what this Board of Education is about, the will and plan of Mrs. Uriart. I mean, exactly what does this Board of Education propose to do? Would you change Madrid's LOMCE? Or will he change the rule-framer of the 2020 New Charity Industries? Or is he going to start a negotiation to increase us with Madrid? Or shall we get the rights to travel our own hands? I mean, does Mrs. Greart keep her 2020? I mean, what we're planning in this house is that we're gonna go through the democratic basis that we're going to go through self-reference. And not only that he will defend the consent of this house, but also that he will defend that peculiar educational model which he professes and demands, and which he will develop, and which he will do for it. And that's what we want to ask Mrs. Orarte today. If, in Spain, LOMCE transforms, what would be the matter with the regulator or decree of the New 2020 initiative here? What's the purpose of this Board of Education?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u113	Mr. President of the Parliament, chief of the Department, members of the legislature. Good morning. Mrs. Ubera, you know, because we've been having a lot of discussions in this Chamber about the funn and, more correctly, the opinion of the Board of Education that I'm running around LOMCE. You know him well, because we have told him a score of times before this Chamber, and in the Cectorial Conference of Madrid, or in the State Government, two meetings, both in the Senate and in the appeals proposed to him. That is to say, what is our opinion and position of defending our rights and rights. You know also, that the monographic discussion of this Chamber was made, and that what was settled in it was sent to the Ministry. In the preceding law, the parliament insisted that the process of improving the quality of our education system should continue, by improving its excellence, without reverting to equity, which is always a pivot. For the past few years, RedMunch has set up a number of initiative to minimize and avoid the consequences of LOMCE. In other words, the appeals introduced in the Constitution of the Court are well known, but besides avoiding the injurious influences of LOMCE, and minimizing it, it must be our privilege to build euscal educational system, to develop and improve, and to look into the future. In these projects the main thing is to maintain the quality of an euskal educational system, and to make a progress on the road to perfection. In that sense, it's just New York 2020 in October 2013. This plan set out, taking special challenges from the euscal educational system. With the intention of collecting the strategic lines marked in Europe for 2020 of education and training, so as to give a strong step to the excellence of the system, and to achieve a fair and active society. The New Year's 2020 plan is, therefore, based on two columns. The first column is the long and plentiful road our education system has hitherto made. Many and successful education experiences which have gone on that road have accumulated in order to build the pedagogical culture we share in the community of education. The second column is the participation of different operators; it must be the care of all educations, and must also be the commitment of all, in order to ensure improvement, competency, and duration. In February 2014, the first project on the frame of a pedagogic educational model was presented, after a long process of consultation, and with the comprehensive consent of the unit of education. In this document the main lines of educational model in the development of curriculum are collected. The main lines of education modeling are, in a great measure, of all education and fashions that may now be considered as fundamental in 18 years. However, considering that the output profiles of the scholars, students of the National Education, of the Batxier and the students of the Hezics are different, the proposal is in an internal condition of Exod. One of the most recent items of this frame carried to Curriculum was the student's output profile. This profile is defined in order to get the goals of education and to know how to move in different areas and situations of life through basic education treatments that students must get. In particular, the output profile for a study is the axis of defining the nature and personality of its education project, and the intention, programming, development, and evangelification, and planning the training of its teachers. Although there was already in the elementary educationculum of 2007, it is another element which has advanced until it has become the basis of the pedagogical axis of the New One 2020 Plan: the basic competification proposal that's done. In the model we choose, the indirect basic competitions and the basic competitions of the discipline are included. And about these competitions, the scopes and materials which are converted into means of getting the level of competition fixed in the output profile are formed in different stages of education. After we had studied the pedagogic educational model, we began to prepare the decrees of the curriculum. For the first time in these decrees, there was an extensive participation, and more than 800 contributions were received. Later on, the State put an appeal against these decrees. We can't deny that LUMMCE has repeatedly set up obstacles, but, as we have so often remarked, it has hitherto been an important match for the sectors of education, without the carelessness that preserves the most positive aspects of our education system, and has become their property, without being able to plunge into serious adheticism. These decrees, which have been sought to ensure the minimum legal certainty of the system, were employed in the object of avoiding the most prejudicial aspects of LOMMCE as much as possible. These descriptions continue to progress and we can continue to build our education system, but they are more especially founded on the change of paradigm, which is now on the basis of modifying our education. Our resume, among others, has these characteristics. He takes first education and a second mandatory education inside and he doesn't class lessons. Everyone has the same rank. The proposition is flexible and open. We continue to maintain the equity of the education system, and the attention of multiplicity, in preserving all the supportive applications, in case of divergence. We stick to a single-born route, allowing the students to continue without separating themselves to the end of the DBH. Schools have autonomys for planning, whether year by year or cycle, and if they cycle, as now, in three cycles, or as we proposed, to spend them in two cycles. We're still confessing to families OMR and school councils, and besides, they're involved in training. The evaluations, diagnostics, and improvements which are regulated by our decree, are the source of which we are developing our own evaluation systems. These are the properties of our curriculum. And these also were resurrected. So, as I said at other times, New Hezie is not the curriculum of LOMCE. If that were the case, would you explain to me why the Spanish Government made a prayer to the Red Beetle by saying it was quite contrary, saying that the 336 Decrea has no respect for what was established in the basic regulations of the State? It's very clear that the novel isn't the LOMCE app. First of all, because one is a plan and the other a law. We have often confirmed in this chamber, that the frame-framer and decree of 1920 models are not the result of the direct application of LOMMCE, but of the production of our education. It is, as has been said from the first day, the duty of this government to defend the strong and severe system of education, which will be preserved from political and present changes, stable and permanent, and perpetual reforms, and founded on the consent of education-makers. The New Year's plan fixes the euscal educational system, which will develop its jurisdictions as much as possible by proposals that will be consistent with its legal competency and security. There is a chance at this moment, and I repeat, that in the education system there is almost five years of nervousness and stability to change the law of LOMCE, and at least to remain in the same position as we were before. The news, that is, such an opportunity, a joy, a joy, and though we do not know what may come to pass at first, yet it is not bad. But I will wait, to examine it carefully, and doubtless to improve it, if I can, and that will be our end, always starting from the protection of our constituents. The Education Department will continue the auto-organization of Euskade, the quality of its educational system, and the rights of education and language and education, by means of the legal contrivances and instruments necessary for this purpose. To do that, we will work to protect the rights we defend our entire education system. This is the end of the bureau in detail, the principal part of the sketch of the Ministry's legal proposition which the Ministry has sent us, and the influence of it in our jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u115	Hate the mood. What I know and what I see is that you say one thing in common, and that you do another. And you always say, like a mantra, that you don't apply LOMCE, but what you do is apply it to the diary by New York. And I gave you examples. And you said you didn't apply directly because you're indirectly applied. After all, the New One is 2020 LOMCE, and that's what we live and suffer and suffer. And then, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, we don't have our models. We have no models. Here we have organic laws, which clearly determine what they are to be applied, and Mrs. Cela in the reply given to our colleague Matute, if he enters into the organic law, what is to be done if he remains outside of the organic law. And in this house, in this house, some principles have been agreed on for a new state, and you've started as if there were a deal, a new mantra, when there was no agreement, and there wasn't either with Hezie 2020 or with the supposed coincidence that you've already made. What you do is put it on that first frame on that status base. And you do not place yourselves in order to advance in independence in the agreement which lies in this legislature. And you don't even set up in that model that is declared from high-school education. And look, after reading the project that came from Madrid, it's the first impression, the first impression that the government of Madrid is planning a change in the shape of LOMCE, a washed-up face. I mean, you change your skin and keep your brain covered. In fine, they have learned very well how PNV behaves, and what they plan is to spread Hexion 2020 to the whole of Spain. And if that happens, we are in the same case, we are in the same case. We'll be on our way. We'll stick with him. Besides, he makes it very clear that in his answers the contents of LOMMCE will remain fixed, some directed. Besides, to penetrate into our hands, we would refuse to penetrate into our model, and would not give way to a real change. Right now, when the times have changed, when society has changed, when we have other challenges, we lose a chance. We lose a chance not only to penetrate into our model, but to answer those challenges which society has already overcome us. We're going after him. We're going after him and it's bad. And then it's up to you and you'll have to decide. All right, I think it's fine if there's really the will to change LOMCE in Madrid. All right. And it seems to me very well that you too should have the honesty of association, but your gaze, your heart, your hands, must be looking at our society, and that they should be on those foundations of the state where your hands and heart have been so unanimous as to be able to define our model of education. And we don't see any of these wills, because we're seeing them in the diary, we've seen what's going on with EBABOBOBOY 2020. And schools, parents, teachers, students... We miss each other. For, as we look, the intervention, the autonomy proclaims itself, but the participation and the autonomy of our daily decisions are denied us. He's also watching where the teachers are driving. What's going on with the outside evaluation? What are the contents? Is that great? What's the difference between the possibilities? There's no excellence in any kind of choice. What's going on? First-rate citizens, secondary citizens, first-class schools, secondary schools. And it's time to stop and make a reposition. Even when you came here with these false foundations, we told you that you did it in a frame of past, in the frame of LOMCE, and the novel, 2020. And in this frame nothing new can be built. Besides, what results are, Mrs. Orrei, how can we make a change of results, by improving the results in the same manner? And here's a plan. So what we're asking for is to go round all this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u117	Take a walk. Most of them...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Thank you. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u119	Ms. Ubera, the mantra is yours because once in a while we'll always be arguing, but the New York plan isn't LOMCE's app. The decrees of reference to the new 2020 models and regulations ranges are consequences of the natural education project, not of an application to direct LOMCE. And you say it over and over, trying to convince him, but he's not. It's not. It's not. We finally prepare a pedagogical frame, from which we build our model, our decrees, and our path, and, as I have said before, to give us a legal guarantee. Our model is not built from scratch. He adds a number of long and fruitful avenues of educational experience, of eloquence and eloquence, of information and communications, and of multiplicity of life. All these have contributed to construct a pedagogical culture which is common to the professor of euscal education. As I said at first, in order to answer your question, the principal aspect of the sketch of the legal proposition which has been sent to us, is to examine in detail the effects of it in the jurisdiction. If at the end of the process I insist again on how the change is accepted, only a change of LOMCE is the effect of the change, and we shall see from the point of view of the combinations we have, that this change requires change and adaptation, but always assuming the benefit of our education system, and proceeding from the defence of our associations. Our position is well known, and we start from the jurisdiction of our autonomy member. Thus it is necessary that any proposition which is placed on the table should be fully respected for the jurisdictions of Western education, and thus to give our education system, which is based on consent, and the opportunity for the development of our model. We want our own education, but we also have the right to have our own education model, the 16th of the United States of Guernica. the article gives us jurisdiction. Thanks to this jurisdiction of education, in years, we have developed that jurisdiction between organizations, operators, and families, and seven laws of educating Madrid, etc., and from this union we have built an euscal education system together, and a fundamental political and social agreement to continue building the system is required in order to avoid instability. We want to design a stable and quality education system for the next years, and that's why we want a law to develop euscal self-organization so that the education system can become better and better. We've been in this Chamber recently in a monographic discussion of the principles of education. What has been introduced has been the result of the agreement process, the established basis, a basic document that includes the shared aspect of the entire education community and the basic principles of the education system of the future, which will give us a new education law which we consider necessary for the next year to our country. It is the first step of a new law, but perhaps the most important. Because our system is the basis that will take it as the axis of the future, and we are now enabled to continue to penetrate on this basis, in order to establish with consent the foundations of the education law of future education which will include the whole education system. We believe that we shall meet with the challenge of education, in the will to all of us to arrive at the path and harmony. For it is the principal end of the new law to build a changeable point of view with education, with the assistance of education, and of agreement. On our side we'll continue to look for deals and to try to get closer because that's the way we work, the neighbourhood. Education is a common property, and it demands a close approach to each other and a surpassing inequality. The future of our people is in the hands of all of us. There's a lot at stake. Education is our future. It's a great challenge. That's why we need everyone's commitment. To design and regulate the system as a whole to determine the rights and duties of some and others. To advance in quality, in equity, inclusion, and in eloquence, and to give advancement to excellence. But we must build all this on a minimum agreement. And again, I repeat, we are all necessary in this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpology, the parliamentary members of the Basque Team of Carmélo Barrojia, made to the Chief of Staff and Justice, about the work of an euccanic pact of social phenomena." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u121	Egun on. Thank you, President. Mrs. Counselor St. Joseph, Mrs. Uriarte Counselor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, continuing with the reflections that we are trying to bring from our group to this House in relation to the development, the implementation, the promotion of the social economy, because it is also the object of this initiative, of this inquiry. It is a good time for two issues, as we try to make clear in the justification of the inquiry. On the one hand, to know the approach of his Department, in particular the Directorate of Social Economy, in relation to the approaches carried out and approved in the monographical debate that we had on social economy, on the communication of the Government. On the other hand, the analysis of the desirability of implementing equally more ambitious plans. In this regard, the analysis of experiences in promoting and supporting the social economy. And we have also encountered important issues in which we can look at ourselves, curiously from the Basque Country, that we have a powerful structure of the social economy, we have also seen references but that very important and not so far from us where we can look at each other. Of course, the social economy is probably a debate that goes quite unnoticed in society, in the media, in the consideration of its relevance and importance, but we want to continue to give it the importance it has, because it is an element of the key future and we also identify it as such, key, in economic development, in the development of employment and I will also refer to that. And we have also recently seen it under another important circumstance, the holding of the Global Forum of Social Economy, in your opinion that the fourth edition that took place from 1 to 3 October with the Bilbao declaration on some issues, where you participated, and I too, and where very relevant issues are highlighted in relation to the social economy. We are also talking about the social economy or the social and solidarity economy, but we are going to refer specifically to the social economy as an identifying element above all, even by asking the UN to promote and make a resolution in relation to these special and so characteristic forms of economy. So we have three relevant issues in recent months. We have the debate in the Labour Committee, where we discussed the social economy on the basis of the Government's communication, which also called for this Parliament at the beginning of this parliamentary term, and we were also able to adopt a number of resolutions after that debate. The Working Committee, at its meeting on 4 June, adopted a series of resolutions, in which case there were 58, in addition to different and diverse characteristics. I put two of them in the justification for seeing the fan a little bit. The Basque Parliament states that the social economy – and that is because it must be recognised – is a model rooted in our people and in our culture and that it is also a meaningful and efficient expression of the different positive values and practices currently in force, which are adequately reflected in the concept of joint work, But we also said, among other things, that Parliament urged the Government to include in the plans to promote entrepreneurship lines of work, tools of economic endowment for the promotion of entrepreneurship based on values of a collective and social nature, such as self-management, democracy, networking, involvement, the human dimension, cooperation, social innovation... Well, elements that are very important and that are elements of the future in job creation and economic growth from the good roots that we have here. We said that, as a reference, we should also look with interest at initiatives that are being launched elsewhere and that demonstrate how important it is for job creation, economic growth and social cohesion to invest further in the social economy. We mentioned, and will continue to talk about, an experience that we have seen as almost incredible, that is, the pact for the excellence of the social economy reached this year in the region of Murcia. It's an element you need to know because it's an impressive example that may well have its reflection in some way here or elsewhere, isn't it? But where the social economy also has an important presence of characteristics different from ours, but that we have observed how they have placed in that community in an impressive way for that pact for the excellence of the social economy, in two objectives: in the search for quality and social cohesion and the reference of employment as a fundamental element. This pact that was signed by different institutional and specialized areas or professionals or members of the social economy is a pact that I am not going to explain here, logically, which develops in eight axes, which has sixty-six measures, which addresses 623 projects and which has a goal, creating quality employment and social cohesion in that region, but which is identified as an area of action 2018-2020 and which implements 52 million euros. Look at yourself, in the region of Murcia, that is, in a pact for the social economy, you are financed with 52 million euros different measures, different structures of ability to act. The document is long, it's interesting. And that sense, we have seen – of course, we are not going to ask that at the moment, now 52 million euros can be employed – we have seen the reference. Sometimes we say that the Basque Country is the mirror where others can look. We can also be or we can see other mirrors or other references that interest us. I mean, we're at a good time, counselor, to make a balance. This inquiry has its objective, I repeat, the three basic questions. The example I have given of what plans can there be in relation to the promotion or the impetus of the social economy that we have so many times called for and which are called for by the groups and groups involved. That is also what we have called for in the resolutions themselves, in the debate on those resolutions. And how they value them from their position, after a few months since before the summer we had that debate in the Working Committee on the social economy, those motions for resolutions calling on the Government to address a number of issues, and to see how it is addressing it. And, of course, the social economy approach and the conclusions of the global social economy forum held in Bilbao last October, with the Bilbao declaration that everyone can know, because it is there. Indeed, when we speak in the monographic debate of the Committee on Social Economy, we refer to a fundamental element. Besides being ours, in addition to understanding that there are references where to look at us, in addition to being protagonists, in some way, picking up that concern, in that forum of social economy, which was to which 1,700 people came, which attracts many people from all over the world in addition to talking about it, we have to see the characteristics of the social economy in the European Union. That Council of the European Union of 7 December 2015, where they said something that has to be driving public policies, that "the social economy that unites a wide and rich variety of organizational forms, formed in various national and social welfare contexts, but with common values and characteristics and objectives, combines sustainable economic activities with a positive social impact, at the same time adjusting goods and services to needs and playing an important role". Well, it says many more questions than I am going to mention, but I believe, Mrs San José, that this is a good time to reflect on social economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u122	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. Mr Barrio, you are asking me about the intentions of the Basque Government in policies to boost and promote the social economy in the coming years. I know that you are a fervent promoter of the social economy, as shown by the initiatives related to it that you regularly present in this House. Precisely in the first half of this year, as you have pointed out, I submitted to the Committee on Labour and Justice a communication containing the action plans of the Directorate of Social Economy for the period 2017-2020. The document was prepared with the participation and consensus of the most representative and dynamic actors of the social economy in Euskadi. To discuss the principles of the social economy and incorporate its contributions, we have the collaboration, among other actors, of ASLE, as an association that brings together the working societies of Euskadi, as well as with several companies of its associates, of the Higher Council of Cooperatives of Euskadi, the Confederation of Cooperatives of Euskadi and of all the federations that make up it. Also in the cooperative sphere, we have the Mondragon Corporation and all its divisions, industrial, distribution, financial and formative; ELHABE, on behalf of the assisted labor companies; Gizaisa by the insertion companies and REAS, Network of Networks of Alternative Economy and Solidarity. The three outlaws, the municipalities of the three capitals and Eudel collaborated in the work. The four most representative trade unions in Euskadi and the three Basque universities also participated in the drawing up of the plans. In addition, Elkargi, a guarantee company, and other companies and consultancies, helped us. As you can see, Your Honor, a broad social and institutional representation, with a special relevance of the sectors of the Basque social economy. The final document was presented to all of you, discussed and enriched by those 58 motions for resolutions, which, as you have pointed out, your ladies and gentlemen have adopted, and I do not think that I am exaggerating if I define the action plans of the Directorate of Social Economy as a true Basque pact for the promotion, promotion, expansion and dissemination of the social economy in the Basque Country. The stake for the social economy in Euskadi has a long and successful history. But this government has wanted to support, deepen and reinforce this tradition and, therefore, in the Euskadi 2020 government programme for this legislature there is a complete section dedicated to the social economy, commitment 9, with 10 initiatives. Of course, we also recognize the value of your momentum initiative. The plan has a definition of the social economy, which, as it cannot be otherwise, is in perfect conflict with the principles contained in the Charter of Principles of the Social Economy promoted by the Permanent European Confederation of Cooperatives, Mutuals, Associations and Foundations and with the resolutions of the European institutions relating to the European pillar of social rights. In addition, the situation of the social economy is diagnosed and relates to the plans of other departments or departments of the Government, to coordinate actions and to enable social economy enterprises to benefit from the aid and support contained in those plans, such as the Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020 or the Youth Employment Plan, the inter-institutional entrepreneurship or industrialization plan, or the 2020 Industrialization Framework Strategy, all of which are budgeted. The main financing instruments promoted by the Basque Government and the private sector in Euskadi have also been taken into account. In short, the Department of Labour and Justice, through its Directorate of Social Economy, promotes the creation and consolidation of social economy enterprises, but they have access to all the general support measures of the Government as a whole. With regard to the promotion and promotion of the social economy in Euskadi, the action plans contain specific objectives which involve specific lines of action in different areas for their achievement, all of which are reflected in the draft budgets which I presented to them a few days ago and which I hope will be adopted. The actions to which I refer are guided, in addition to the objectives, by the resolutions which you adopted following the communication to which I referred earlier. The draft budgets of the Directorate of Social Economy for 2019 contain an operational budget with an increase of 2,7 % over the 2018 financial year. Our will is to continue with this steady increase, beginning in this legislature, and we want it to remain in future exercises. We will continue with the lines of aid that we have been calling for for years and that have had a positive impact on the world of the social economy. These are undertaken in the social economy and for the planned territorial promotion of enterprises of social economy, for the incorporation of persons partners in enterprises of social economy, for technical assistance in enterprises of social economy, for the consolidation of associations structures of enterprises and entities of social economy, for training in social economy and for business inter-cooperation in the social economy. In 2018, important initiatives have been launched to promote the social economy, with the publication of two new aid orders, social-enterprise responsibility and participation of workers in social economy enterprises. For the next financial year, we propose the above-mentioned increase, with the aim of consolidating and extending the new programmes created. The commitment decided by this policy of promotion is evident in the increase of the committed items by 2020, which will help definitively establish the subsidy lines proposed by the Government for this legislature. Next, I will give you an account of one of the projects we plan to carry out in the 2019 financial year, many of them following those undertaken in 2018. The first one I want to comment on is the one that aims to make an account of the transformation of society through the social economy, which has four axes: the economic-business, the social axis, the environment and the common axis, that of people. The second project is to establish the indicators necessary to measure the main parameters of the social economy. The third is the project called the Basque educational curriculum, which aims to analyse and create educational material for training, i.e. to develop educational material for the social economy that can be taught in our educational institutions. Another project for 2019, which has its corresponding budget, is the promotion of the entrepreneurship of social economy enterprises in which they are involved, together with the Directorate of Social Economy, vocational training Tknika and the University Mondragón Unibertsitatea. In order to comply with another of the initiatives contained in the action plans of the Directorate of Social Economy 2017-2020, we will convene a competition to hire a communication plan that gives visibility to companies. Another commitment is to carry out an analysis of the actions of the Basque Government in the field of corporate social responsibility, which will subsequently allow the inclusion of social clauses in the actions of the various departments of the Government. Finally, we will continue the order of participation of workers in enterprises, whose aim is the dissemination and promotion of participatory culture, taking into account the non-legislative proposal adopted unanimously by this Parliament for the promotion of an inclusive Basque participatory model of enterprise. With these initiatives, I think we are responding to the needs of the Basque social economy and we think that work in this area must remain intense and constant. The value of the social economy as a means of social improvement and the quality of employment deserves it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u124	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u125	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. San José, for your answer. I do see that, indeed, after the activity, the debate and the 58 resolutions adopted, those resolutions are being taken into account by the Department, indeed. We'll check it out. The debate was five months ago, or something like that, that is to say, it needs to be started. But it is true that we also have a long way to go, a long way to go in supporting the social economy. A long way to go in planning. That is why I was referring to something that we have seen as a reference element, something that seemed to us to be an example of a plan of excellence and, of course, to which I referred earlier and now I am going to give some figures, of what that plan referred to. You have talked about different projects and are well, surely they can be valued. Indeed, we have seen how in the motions for resolutions diversity in relation to the objectives and what we were asking for was very clear. That is to say, of recognition of its importance, on the one hand, but then, indeed, incentives for training, for setting up businesses, for supporting partners; on the other hand, for research, for relations with the university, for interinstitutional collaboration, for participation, for the policies of the European Union, of course, for direct support for businesses. And that, of course, is still clearly better within the budgets. Manifestly improveable within budgets. We must give it a push, much more important still, that is, as we have the limbs, that is, what we have is to remain strategic in relation to what there is, with wealth in relation to the social economy and with its different expressions, cooperatives, labor societies, what we see most, but well, all other wide range of possibilities of work in social economy, as you know, which is perfectly defined. And that is why we too have strategically understood that, in addition to what may be at the moment the debate on the cooperative law, which is pending to bring this Parliament, we must continue to act. That is why we ask for this communication and that is why we want to continue taking steps and, indeed, in the steps we see also in references, that is, when I referred to the Plan of Excellence of the Region of Murcia and which is the Plan of Excellence of the Region of Murcia 2018-2020, I spoke of 52 million euros, that is, we have to say that with a series of measures, of objectives, of goals. I mean, I saw how they were made concrete, and that is why I ask that there be something like that too, I say again, with the characteristics that we have and knowing that the effort we have made is also important and that we must not underestimate it. As elsewhere, it has been less, but, for example, in the macro-economic goals of that plan, which I have used as a reference to want to see more done for the social economy in this country, there was talk of an increase of 23% in the number of people employed in the social economy. 23%, he said, or generate a 15% increase in jobs in social inclusion initiatives by 2020. That said, or that 80% of workers are indefinite in all social economy enterprises. Well, it will have to look at its own characteristics, but it sets objectives, such as to get 30 social economy companies to implement a quality employment plan by 2020, or to get, I say again, magnitudes, i.e. specific issues, strategic work, to get 45 companies in the sector to have a partner income plan by 2020. That is to say, once again, to increase the annual creation of social economy enterprises by x %, which means 250 enterprises by 2020. I mean, they're reference elements, they're magnitudes. I mean, here's a work plan. – it will have to be valued later – a work plan with 52 million euros in the region of Murcia. That is to say, we, the Counsellor – and that is what we will propose in an absolutely constructive way in our motion – want a plan of excellence of the social economy also in this country. We see that there are references, that we will not have much to weigh them, no, here we have our own characteristics and I think that they also have perfect fit all those proposals, all those plans and all those programs that you have talked about, that are indeed absolutely necessary, and turn them into a strategic action, of course it can be very powerful and very important. And also announce that we will continue to amend the budgets upwards. We do not know whether the budgets will be approved, but we are going to amend them. Let us hope that at least our amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u126	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u127	I must insist, Mr Barrio, that our policy for the promotion and development of the social economy in Euskadi is consolidated and of course agreed with the sector. I have given him several examples and another is the preliminary draft law on cooperatives, which is being drafted and, of course, with broad consensus on this activity. I am not going to scorn other experiences, but I defend that we have our own model of social economy, an impeccable trajectory, magnificent results and a future that can make us achieve that society that you have also spoken of, fair, equitable, responsible and cohesive. We have set ourselves objectives that define and guide our particular pact for the social economy. We too have elements or magnitudes that tell us that the projects or lines of aid that we are, of course, putting in place are creating jobs, and are creating quality jobs. Promoting and promoting more and better social economy, of course, is our goal. By creating and transforming and by growing and consolidating, always relying on public and private collaboration, which are, of course, the pillars on which our activity is based. There is no doubt that we are a European and international benchmark in this area, and the most obvious example of this is the undisputed weight of associated labour cooperatives and labour societies in our community. We will continue to take into account the references arising from the debates and the subsequent resolutions of the European institutions. We will certainly continue to participate in all Spanish and European forums aimed at promoting the social economy. Our model relates to the promotion of corporate social responsibility, which we assume and which covers a higher level than the social economy, because it is about involving all companies and society as a whole. In the instructions you approved, there were also several that urged us to take this dimension into account. In the first half of next year, we also hope to create an inter-institutional forum with the parliaments and municipalities to coordinate public policies on social and business responsibility. As a result of these public and private initiatives, Parliament unanimously adopted a proposal calling on us to promote a Basque, inclusive and participatory model of workers in companies. The actions that we want to undertake in the next financial year have a budget line for their dissemination and promotion, and of course I take witness to those amendments that you are going to make for the promotion and promotion of the social economy. The future outlook, Mr Barrio, from the point of view of work and its social dimension is highly uncertain, but one of the uncertainties is that the social economy offers a paradigm where inclusion, participation and just and sustainable growth go hand in hand. We agree to empower her. In Euskadi we have an exemplary experience and reality. Sincerely, Mr Barrio, our model, I believe, is not to question it, but to strengthen it and to reaffirm it. We have the right tools, with the experience and will of the actors involved and on the part of the Government, we propose to them work lines and actions that seek a more egalitarian, sustainable and responsible future, that put people in the preferred place of social activity. The development of different forms of the social economy is an essential tool for achieving this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u128	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "About the measures to take on the disturbing development of the working strippers of Job and Justice by the lawmakers of the Union." Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u129	Yes, thank you, good noon to everyone. Last week, to put an end to the 25th anniversary of Osalan, the International IV on Business Security and Health. The convention was celebrated at Bilbo's. The chief physician, according to what you have said in the presentation, has sought to penetrate into the sphere of the prevention of the public dangers, and he has sought to help our present preventive system to improve the hinges which appear in this area; and he has been seeking challenges. First of all, I'd like to congratulate you on the organization, because the pomps I was able to follow were very interesting, with great orators and professionals of experience. On Thursday, Mr. Alonso, according to President of Osalan, Osalan has heard of more accidents than last year. Death caused damages to work. 42.9% grew. All of them, 30 workers killed. And these must be added to the deaths of the accidents on the way from home to work, all 33 dead, according to the history of Osalan, because the unions manipulate other data. In short, we might say that there are bad and disturbing data in this report. Mr. Alonso declared that Osalan had to work in prevention, and that whenever there was an accident, he failed. Well, according to his words, I would define the work of Osalan with a word: It's a failure. You're in serious letters. The failures have gone up a great deal. To continue working on the road to an accidentless field, Osalan was declared to be more and more necessary in the Basques, and I agree with this statement. It is essential to expand the culture of the preventive, and that is one of the principal functions of Osalan, and to study deeply all the accidents that happen. But observing the facts, I am quite clear that what I have done is not enough, and I believe you will agree with me in this. One of the most important problems behind the work-stripes is already admitted to be a preparation for labor, and you have insisted that it is one of the principal objects of the section where you are concerned that you improve the quality of employment. But you don't hardly mention how you're going to handle that. You've said that you're going to reinforce the inspection by filling a inspector's job and making six inspectors in the security and health special, and three jobs of Osalan's medical charges will be produced. I've said it for a while, but we can't see the results. So, if you're planning to change the root of Osalan?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u130	Thank you, Madam Mount. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u131	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Otamendi, you ask in the formulation of your question radical changes in Osalan to give an adequate answer to the worrying reality that the data of sinisterity show. You question Osalan's work and claim to change his mode of work radically. I have to give him a strong rebuttal of his assessment of Osalan's work, since this autonomous body strictly fulfils the 23 functions assigned to him by the Act, namely on 7/93 of 21 December. It also acts in accordance with Law 31/1995 on the Prevention of Occupational Risks, which transposes European Directive 89/391/EC. This regulation clearly establishes the responsibility of the employer with regard to the safety and health of persons working in his company. It is therefore their responsibility to prevent occupational risks, either with their own resources or through consultation with external services. However, the employer must establish the appropriate mechanisms to integrate workers into the management of occupational risk prevention. In this context, the role that social partners should play is very relevant. Osalan, for its part, basically fulfils a role of advising prior to the determination of the occupational risks of each activity, of analysis and preparation of the corresponding guides for the prevention of occupational risks, of checking that the measures determined are being complied with and with the obligation to inform the labour authority of the cases of infringement by the companies or the persons in charge of the rules for the prevention of occupational risks. But, in addition, the 172 professionals who make up Osalan's staff carry out an intense activity for the relaxation of preventive culture, as he has pointed out, in society as a whole. I can assure you that with high involvement and with recognized training. Mrs Otamendi, all this work is done on the basis of current legislation, but also of planning and analysis and consultation within the General Council of Osalan. The reference element is the Basque Strategy for Safety and Health at Work, but, as you already know, each year a management plan is drawn up which determines the concrete actions to be taken. Of course I regret every accident at work and with more regret if it has a fatal outcome. Be sure that each one is analyzed with the pretence of preventing it from happening again. And transparency is our standard of action and that's why we don't hide the data, but we have them in mind to force us to improve our work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u132	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u133	Thank you. Mrs. Chief, I don't doubt the role of Osalan. The role of Osalan is indispensable, so I think I've made it clear. I share that Osalan is required. What I'm saying is you don't fulfill your goals. I mean, you don't do the targets that you're giving yourself. Work accidents are going up all the time. You say you'll do a lot of things, but then we don't see any progress. You're going to reinforce the Osalan, improve the quality of jobs... but after that you do not measure. That's what I'm telling you. What measures do you plan?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u134	Thank you, Madam Mount. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u135	And I insist, Mrs. Otamendi. The Basque Strategy for Occupational Safety and Health 2015-2020 is a perfectly valid and contrasted tool, which we will continue to develop and which we do every year, and which we will continue with measures to reduce this occupational sinestrality. In the draft budgets I presented to you, there are several developments directly related to the extension of preventive culture. There are also plans to increase three new occupational risk prevention technicians, to which we would like to add three more in terms of the remainder of the legislature. We propose a significant increase in the heading Preven.2 aimed at combating sinestrality in the primary and timber sectors. More than EUR 380,000 is earmarked for training not only delegates and prevention delegates, but also for promoting preventive culture among young people in primary education and vocational training. Mrs Otamendi, in order to implement all these and other measures that we have planned, it is necessary that the general budgets of this community be approved and that all the agents who have appointed representatives to the General Council of Osalan participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u136	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the Wild Houseer and Levind EH Collectors to the Chief of Work and Justice, about the control of illegal agencies like Empledas de Hogar Bilbao." Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u137	In September, the collective staff of the Biscare House brings a complaint into the offices of the Biscare Laboration. The accusation is that a company named Empleadas del Hogar owes a man a month's salary to a worker. You're being informed of a company that works for employers, and it's at least two years since this company is running. During these two years he has never had the permission to work in the intermediary, and yet he has carried on the most suspicious and visible letters, and has done all irregularly irregular, illegal, and at last the intermediary of the statesman. When they see that there is no movement within almost two months, the workers of the Biscarian household act in the presence of this centre. As long as you don't do it, they get to take away all these letters, and at the present moment to put other people's ways not to operate, because of their movement, they don't. You have an order for June this year. From this law, we requested, by one word, that the press of the intervention of the intervention of the media-offices should be able to start from the remudents, and, I tell you, they need a great remoulation. After Mother of Begoña, you couldn't see that this company in everybody's eyes was suspicious. Even when you got the case, you couldn't get it started. And that's why we ask you, Mrs. San José. What will this government do with these illegal companies in the wretched working conditions of domestic workers and above all against the Empleadas del Hogar?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u139	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Etxebarrieta, the Department of Labour and Justice will do its utmost, within its competence, to ensure that the activities of the placement agencies are subject to the law. The instrument we have to carry out this monitoring and to issue sanctioning or requirement reports to the companies investigated is the Labour Inspectorate transferred to the Autonomous Community. As I had the opportunity to tell you from this very atrium in the previous full monitoring, the activities of the system of Labour Inspection and Social Security for the purpose of proper planning by the two administrations holding the service have been structured around four main material areas of intervention: prevention of occupational risks, labour relations and employment, competence of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and social security and irregular economy, which are within the competence of the General Administration of the State. The Inspection, on which we have competence, plans specific campaigns to control the placement agencies. During 2017 there were 11 proceedings that resulted in four infringements and three requirements. In this year 2018, 12 actions have already been carried out, resulting in 5 violations and 5 requirements. We are aware that a complaint was lodged against the company you allude to on 26 September. I am sorry to be unable to give you any more information because of the duty of secrecy imposed on inspectors by article 10 of the Labour Inspection Ordinance. In addition, the file is managed by the Untransferred Labour Inspectorate. I have to tell you that there is coordination between the two, but do not transfer it from dossiers, the content of which we do not know until they are resolved. I can inform you today that a new complaint was filed against the company in question on 21 November, which, of course, will be investigated with the professionalism that characterizes all the people who make up the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. On the other hand, tell him that both the authorization and the registration of the collation agencies belong, in our autonomous community, to Lanbide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u140	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u141	Madame San José, what you've got in your hand is very serious, and it's still more slow to answer. We've been asking you to bring us a diagnosis for once and we're at the end of November and you haven't done it yet, and we're waiting for you since 2016. We asked you to decide once and for all that you should make a decision to get them into a treatment service that dissects the household employees, and you didn't make any decisions. We also asked you to look for the risks of domestic work, and to ask for their opinion to the different associations which you were doing at the end of a month ago, if you can say anything to them as quickly as possible. Special definition of the neighborhood that you guys have. No diagnosis of the situation, no decision to stop discriminating against domestic workers, no participation process or document to prevent accidents at work. "En breve lo tendremos," you've answered us a thousand times. But as long as that breve thing arrives, we're still waiting while the staff of the house is still dissecting. As long as this "En breve" arrives, such as the workers of the House of Biscay are to defend these women, they are charged with charges in the Labage, Emplegue, and Society Department, in the courts of courts. They're doing it and not you. But you don't move. Seriously, it's time to start running. You have to make strong equipment and bold steps, but not "sirve," "y." We have a terrible problem with our guard, and you have confessed it, and in this gathering of people who are growing old, we are leaving our incestivity to the ill-conditions of foreign women. It's not like we've been waiting... It is not that the groups in Parliament have signed agreements that are not being implemented. The problem is that, meanwhile, while waiting for that "in short", domestic workers remain without conciliation permits, discriminated against by the Administration. They're still helpless.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u143	Mrs Etxebarrieta, I do not think you have heard me in my first speech. And, moreover, with regard to the issues that you have raised, of course, we are working on them and we will soon be bringing to Parliament the issues that were adopted in that motion. In the question that you have asked me underlies – and I agree with you – the poor situation of women in the labour market in general and in particular. Inequality and discrimination against women is evidence that we find ourselves in the less valued and less paid productive sectors, it is a reality. That unintended partiality and temporality affect us to a greater extent than men, is a true fact. That is why all of you have approved those initiatives which we will of course implement and bring to Parliament here. And for the Government it has become an objective, and one of those priority objectives is to break that wage gap. That is why we have included in the budget important items aimed at that objective. There is no doubt that this situation is being experienced by the household employees sector. In addition to the inspection work, they find it difficult to carry out their work. We have already pointed this out here on other occasions. We are talking about the work being carried out at the employer's home and this is inviolable. Therefore, you cannot enter the home if the employer does not allow it. Of course, the complaint must be the way in which we are aware of these fraudulent situations. It cannot be another, formal complaint or complaint through the measures we have incorporated, which is the box of fraud, through the Directorate of Labour and Social Security. Because I encourage everyone to report fraud and, of course, to collaborate with the institutions, either with the Labour Inspectorate, the Public Prosecutor's Office or Lanbide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-23.u144	Thank you, chief physician. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was eight o'clock in the afternoon.
