ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting in silence for a minute, in honor of Gregor Ordóña. [[Pause]] Before we begin, I inform you of the fourth point for another... He's retired. First point in theme list: "Mode, introduced by Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors, about the project of the Board of Education at the Central High School. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn, Mrs. Ubera, is your word to introduce and defend action. Mrs. Ubera, Mrs. Ubera. the logo, please, can't be covered. Put it where you like, but the logo can't be covered, because it's institutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u1	Well, good morning, everybody. Madam of Education, Mr. Urkullu, fellow-citizens, members of the legislature. Well, first of all, our sincere thanks to the people of Bidebieta (mothers, parents, neighbors, neighbors, students, teachers) for the effort they have made to be present in today's plenary, leaving their jobs, requesting permission to be with us today. Our sincere thanks for all the fight that you are making for the neighborhood school, for the neighborhood, for the public school, for the future of everyone without leaving anyone behind, committed and fighting for those neighborhoods that do not appear in the photos, that do not appear in the tourist triptychs of the cities, for the neighborhoods of the working people, of the humble people. Thanks to you we have come this far, and, of course, we will continue to fight to get the public school that Bidebieta deserves. It's not my intention to throw a mitin out today, even though I don't want to, but these people for education, for school that belongs to everyone, for the neighborhood... these people who are fighting deserve a confession, and that's just the fact that we haven't seen it from the Board of Education on behalf of this Government. Lady Uriarte, look into these people's eyes and tell them that you'll defend the highway school, the neighborhood school, that you'll keep it open and you'll bet for the future of the roads. Tell him, please, that looking into his eyes you won't let the neighborhood school die, because what you've done so far is let him die. Why do I say this? Just keep it open because it's like letting you kill the highway neighborhood school. And no matter what you'll say to us today or to the rest of the days, we don't care whether you're going to sign with us or not, because here the problem or the matter isn't to win a motion or lose a motive, but here the neighbourhood is what's in play, the public school here in the neighbourhood, and it's your duty to engage in this school. And that means taking action, taking responsibility, putting the measures in force, that's what I mean. And, unfortunately, we've only seen generalities before. I'm sorry, ma'am, but that's all we've ever seen in this process. And in contention, in the discussion, I told you that I was completely in harmony with you, and that when you said that we needed an educational strategic project, the renewer, who will look at the length of the time, and compromise the school and the family. And there they are, they're all working there, engaged, and you too, the Board of Education, have been handed over to them by writing and writing, but it's not enough, and you know it. It's not enough to commit a school or a family, you have to commit the Education Department, you have to fulfill its responsibility, and you know that. But why is the Board of Education ready? What's he ready for? Because even if you define the education project and start, you know it takes time to go back to the situation, and that time, teachers, schools, families... they need security. They need pledges, and, besides, to attract students, to attract the families, to attract attractive, decent, well-fitting infrastructure. And, you see, the two buildings are not required to renew, they are not required to do what they are doing, I do not know what to do. They're just asking for the best building, making a facewash, having the dining room they need... And the other building... Well, we don't go in there, and it's not our job, but it's for the neighborhood, and they're going to decide it with the Donostian City, because that's what they're supposed to be like, a cult house, a library to turn around the neighborhood and have those decent sub-structions that the neighborhood needs to be a living neighborhood. But, well, that's not the discussion today, and they'll agree to that with the City of Donostia. The neighborhood deserves it, the neighborhood needs it, and the neighbourhood has to be supported by that public offer. The neighbourhood must be assured of the public offer from 0 to 18, which will be subject to a strong educational project: Child school, first education, second education, one around a solid project, open to the neighborhood, working together. That's what we need, and that's what we need, and that's what you have to guarantee. We're not numbers... We're not numbers, we don't need macro schools, we need schools to respond to the multiplicity of people. I don't know how many times we have to listen to it, and I agree that it's the education model we need, which will consider the characteristics of people individually: a eucalyptic school, of quality, of life, of neighbourhood, which will ensure the equality of opportunity to all citizens. To acquire the means of developing each one's life project, to develop, to accompany him, the school, the professor, the means. That's what we're asking for, near neighbouring schools, that's what we're asking for. And your responsibility is, Ms. Renart, to take care of the public offer. What we can't see is what we're looking at-that is to remove public offer from the neighborhood, by way of privatizing education. And as in those districts there is no public offer, we transfer those who cannot go out of the neighborhood. Is that the bet for the public school of this government? Is that it? Is that your nearby neighbourhood school? Weert, who was at his own time Minister of Education, and the Spanish Government, without any shame, receives it in the papers. But you, this government, because you're much faster than EAJ, you do it by the back door. And I don't know if we realize it or not, but we have a lot of social play. The fundamental basis of a society is the most important, the most important, the education, the formation. It is the largest instrument we have to redistribute our wealth, the most potent means we have for cohesion, to ensure the equality of choice, cohesion, implusion... everything is education. Education is the foundation, yes. Yeah, and what are we doing with education? What are we doing with education? I mean, instead of closing schools, this government should be opening schools... Opening schools! Or get the wrong ones right. The Government ought to be employed in this, to give access to education to all the people in equality. And at this moment, all the people have no educational access to equality. They're not offered. You'll say whatever you want, but it's not like that. But you're going the wrong way. Well, this time it seems like you'd like to use the registration as an excuse. I appreciate at least that the open plate has been kept, but it's not enough. It's not enough to guarantee the license plate open. It seems to me that this Government has restricted itself to the easiest course, but, well, it's a step on that road. But, really, if you want to turn the situation around, you have to be a political bet. You have to be a political bet on the neighborhood school. And that requires exact measurements, exact measurements. Probably, in the past years, we've all done a lot wrong. Probably... But now it seems to me that there is a chance for me to correct this situation, set it up, and take advantage of it. But what I don't know is very good if you want to take this opportunity. I'm not sure. Because it's an example of the roadway or the roadwayway. How is it possible that there are parties where there are a number of public schools, or a number of other public schools, to train scholarships to schools that are better? Wouldn't it be more logical to those schools that are the worst? To meet with money? Those colleges, those colleges at a disadvantage, to compare them to the others? Wouldn't that be more logical, more primitive, more reasonable? I'm asking. Because that's the only way we can guarantee the right to choose our own school. Otherwise it's not guaranteed, otherwise it's a trap. You're cheating. It's a lie that parents have the right to choose schools. That's not true! That's not true! So it seems to us that there ought to be a question of how this government distributes money. Tell me, how many times have we spoken in this change of paradigma, that we must end up with that "café para todos," that each school must have adapted means to respond to its reality, that all schools do not need the same resources? How many times have we talked about it? An educational unit, what does he say? I don't know, I don't think it's that hard. What we've tried with our motive is, even after that, what we've got together in the middle of the Podemos is the commitment to every argument, and about these commitments, a written engagement, a written assertion. After all, making a compact of an association. Yeah? That's what we've been trying to do. We've been trying to set up that partnership that's talked about, to start this leadership compartment, because we have to make all commitments here. But the cares we all have are different. And here, the Board of Education has to commit commitment to the public school that is responsible for it, which demands that it be taken care of and set its measures to work. For, to tell you the truth, I am quite tired of the fact that when we are charged with public school workers, families, we don't work for the project of education, that we don't take commitments, and that the small license plate is our problem. It's our fault. You know what? It's not true, it's not true! And you know what the problem is? The problem is, this government makes no political bets, no bets for public schools. For here the public schools are advancing, the teachers, families, and those who are working in the everyday. And this government doesn't seem to believe in public schools, which I'm sorry, but that has right effects. Why is that? Because the right hand is very comfortable, because it is the model of the right, and it is proper for him to strengthen two-speed education, so that we may build two-speed societies, where some of them are going to be cheap, condemning others to poverty, and others to live in prosperity. That's the summary. And you will forgive me, but the thing moves me, because you know what? My grandparents had nothing to do with it, and they had no chance of giving their children lessons. Our parents, and our generation's parents, had a terrible struggle to learn, to study, to form, but do you know what's going on in the last years? That everything constructed is destroyed, destroyed! And our children, generations after, will not live better than us. Some perhaps, some, some perhaps, will live in prosperity, but not all. Is that the future we want? Is that the future we want for our children? Is that the society we want for the new generations? Is that social collapse? Is that the society built in social justice? Well, we don't think so. And if you think that I am a lawyer, I have no reason, that I am mistaken in the diagnosis I do, and that I am wrong and that I have no reason.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Mr Martínez, representing the Podemos team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u3	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, people of the Way... I thought we'd start with some positive news or something. But the coming to an agreement will not be possible at this time; though, I think, from the opposition, we have set forward, as it were, reasonable and just propositions from the EHG, and from our group. Yesterday afternoon, when I saw the center proposal on the government side, everything changed. It looked as if a public Euscatian student would close, the neighbor of Donostian Road. Maybe it's not this year, but maybe it's over the next few years. This event, not only has consequences in the euscal education system, will affect the social life of a whole neighbourhood in culture and communal communion. The possible closure – and they are not my words – (not this year, it seems that this year is not going to be, but we will see later) of a public educational centre in Euskadi, in this case in Donostia, in Bidebieta neighborhood, is not only a matter with possible consequences in the whole Basque educational system, which also, because it also represents a new negative step for this public school, but it is a question that affects the life of a whole neighborhood, the lives of people living in that neighborhood. Because we could go to technical debates, we could go to debates about the number of registrations sufficient to keep a centre open or not, the reasons that lead to that low number of registrations, but, well, actually, what we and we care about is that what we are talking about is the loss of a service, or the possible loss of an essential public service, because we could talk about more cases. It supposes, or would suppose, to leave an orphaned neighborhood of public school, and it also supposes, as mentioned above, to leave as the only way, as is happening in other neighborhoods of Euskadi, as the only way for families the private school concerted. Because now it seems to be still open, but let us go to those statements of November, to those intentions of the Basque Government in November, to those announcements, which were said to be closed. Is that serious? What has changed since November to today? Has it changed a neighborhood, mobilized a committed neighborhood, an educational community that creates the project? Is it serious that the government is making announcements in November, and in January comes to tell us that it is still open? We congratulate ourselves, of course, but would that be the attitude? The government justified and said that the closure of the center, well, had several arguments: that if the neighborhood was getting older, lack of students, little registration... They could be causes we could call... well, in the neolingua they would be objective, technically they would be technical reasons. Because what we have to analyse is where we come from, why this situation is happening, why this situation is happening in these kinds of neighborhoods. Because it's not the only neighborhood in Euskadi where it's happening. And that is why we would not like to stick to these technical reasons alone, but to go to the real essence of the problem; not only to the reasons in this case, but to the reasons that are making public education go down, unfortunately. Because I think we can agree that one school doesn't close overnight, overnight. These government intentions I believe somewhere would be planned. I want to think about it, because otherwise it would also be worrying about the lack of planning. And surely there are also a number of reasons why enrollment should go down, for families to choose other educational institutions, that so clumsy and so false freedom of choice that we have in this country. Because those statements by the November government guarantee the freedom of choice of centre for families? Put the families in November in the situation that they tell you that they are going to close the school, do you really think, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that that is freedom of choice of center? Well, I honestly think he's a long way from that. There was an inquiry by Euskal Herria Bildu in December, and the Government, in response to that inquiry, extended its hand to the elaboration of an innovative educational project and urged the management of the centre. I believe that the commitment of the educational community of Bidebieta to its centre is clear and remarkable; however, also in our first amendments, apart from the transaction we signed today with Euskal Herria Bildu, we considered that not only was that necessary; that it was certainly a factor that would help and that would result in the quality of the educational offer, but that it was not only that step that we needed. We agreed with the first three points of the EH team's motion and agreed: We're developing a new and strategic project for the student, along with the neighborhood and education unit. We know it's open. Exercise actions, both sports and culture, aren't they? But further, we add four proposals to this motion: to re-examine the school map, to investigate the perception of families of the public local schools, to advance the necessary reforms in the undergrowth, and provide a proper dining-room service. In the compromise we have presented today, we have focused on something that we thought would be agreed by all groups. We sincerely believed that it was a clear, effective and realistic compromise – in our opinion, of course – with concrete commitments, which is what we miss in the proposals that have been sent to us from the parties that support the Government. With concrete commitments for the Government, not just for the centre, not just for the educational community. But again we find that there are no concrete commitments from the Department of Education, beyond keeping the enrollment open, beyond, of course, following public school announcements in ETB. It'd be less! A mismanagement of that November announcement, and now it seems to be, that it remains open, and I say again whether it is serious to walk with these kinds of situations. Because it makes us think, "In June what, are we going to have news?". I hope they're just good. And in 2019, will we have news too? Because I hope, again, they should be good. We're not signing any white checks. Today, we're talking about the highways, but tomorrow, it could be any other student. Always, that's what it is, about Basque workers' schools. It's not a problem of addiction, it's a question of letting public schools die. Don't ask us to sign blank cheques, uncompromised cheques. Today is Bidebieta, but if no measures are taken tomorrow it can be another educational center. Either there are commitments, or we and we won't give any blank checks. Because I was saying that the problem is not enough plates or enough plates to have an open center. The problem is that public school is being allowed to die consciously and decisively, and they will therefore have us in front of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u4	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u5	Thank you, President. Well, today we're addressing a motion from Bildu on the Department of Education project for the Bidebieta Institute. Contextualizing a little, and as we already know, the Bidebieta Institute of Compulsory Secondary Education has had a trajectory of climbs and descents. There was a time when it reached an extensive enrolment of students: it was founded in 1976, when the area was expanding, and the baby boom caused more educational places to be demanded, and even came to have night high school. This trajectory that this institute has been through, and this decrease in enrolment, is due to several factors, largely because the largest number of enrolments came from Karmengo Ama College. Pasaia had for the first time a public ESO, specifically in Trintxerpe, offering the complete itinerary from the age of two to sixteen. Once the ESO project for Karmengo Ama was carried out, it ceased to be a source of students for the Bidebieta Institute. Until then, the closest alternative for students in the municipality was to go to Bidebieta if their families wanted to opt for public education. On the other hand, we find the public school in Mendiola, a primary school with very few enrolments, and therefore, when students reach the age of passing to ESO and enrolling in the institute, the quota of students is usually very low: they do not currently reach an average of ten students per level. On 14 December 2017 – already mentioned here – the Education Adviser was asked about the same subject. The inquiry explained the situation of the Bidebieta Institute and cited that it had carried out several actions throughout the different courses, taking into account that enrolments had been decreasing year after year. An attempt was made to strengthen a project to ensure that students did not only come from out-of-time schooling, which seemed to be what they were pursuing. Meetings have been held from the territorial delegation with the educational agents and with the members of the management of the Bidebieta centre, in order to find and find a solution to continue the centre. The Education Adviser at that appearance made a commitment, which we think is very important, to the impulse of the Basque public school and to seek solutions, to seek alternatives before proceeding to any closure. Our group wants to stay with that, looking for feasible solutions for the Bidebieta Institute, so that it can continue to offer a Basque public education. So far, the diagnosis is shared by virtually all political groups, and we believe that the Councilwoman's commitment to attendance at the December plenary session opens up a window of opportunity that I believe we should appreciate positively and that we should all take advantage of. I deeply regret that it has not been possible to reach a unanimous or almost unanimous agreement at this point, because the diagnosis is shared and there is probably a certain number of commitments on the one hand, and another greater demand for commitments on the other, but I believe that there is a very important central channel that we should continue to explore between the political groups and with the Department of Education, because we all agree that the supply of public school in that neighbourhood must be maintained, and we all agree that the necessary efforts must be made, together with the educational community, to explore all the possibilities that they can maintain and strengthen the current Bidebieta Institute. In another sense, the City of San Sebastián, at the plenary session on 20 December, already approved an amendment submitted by the Nationalist and Socialist groups, and the following was approved: "The plenary session of the City of Donostia requests the Department of Education and Universities of the Basque Government to analyse, with the educational community of the Institute of Bidebieta, the design of the educational project that responds adequately to the training needs of that area of the city". The second point: "The plenary session of the City Council of Donostia urges the Basque Government to keep it informed of any substantial changes to the education services provided in the city". Therefore, there is also clearly a concern in the city of San Sebastián for the future of the centre of Bidebieta. It is essential to design a strategic project for this educational community, because the closure of a public school is never good news, neither for us nor for the neighborhood of Bidebieta, nor of course for the city of San Sebastián. That is why we must work together to ensure that this never happens. Because there are also three concerted schools in that neighborhood, supported by public funds, and our duty as public representatives is to keep the public institute open. The project has to be inclusive, and that it also collects the ideas or aspirations and illusions of the educational community of the Bidebieta institute, taking into account the neighbors, parents, mothers, students, teachers and teachers, the management of the center..., in short, all educational agents, thus achieving what we all want to happen: that the center take off and increase the enrolments. The project must be cohesive, and to that end all those who make up the Bidebieta Institute are eager to work and to take this project forward; a project that guarantees the educational needs and guarantees the right of choice of parents, and the principle of equal opportunities. That is the position that we in the Basque Socialists are defending today. I say again, I regret that it was not possible to reach that agreement, but I want to keep the positive side, which is that we all share the diagnosis and it has been achieved from the commitment of the Department of Education to keep the enrollment of the institute open. And now we have to do an intense job ahead of us (political groups, educational community and the department) so that this is not just a day's flower, but that the situation of the center is consolidated and the public center is kept in the Bidebieta neighborhood.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u6	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the group, Sire Faraway, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good day to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. First, I would like to begin with a clear expression: our team and the government we protect are deeply engaged with the future of the fair and BHI. I can say it louder, I can't say it more clearly. And as they have given occasion to others, if they give me the chance, I will look them in the eye, Madam Ubera. The situation is not easy. In the case of the Road, BHI, the reasons that have brought us to present reality are derived from the structure of the roadway, and this is not an excuse, that is reality. In a circle of middle-aged middle-aged district between Donostia, Pastia, and Renaissance, which leads us to an additional offer of school-plascentations on every side. There are squares in the schools, and many schools around it, which the families produce to be an immense spectrum of education. Besides, it must be observed that the offer of the Education of the Road and BHI is in part derived from the union of the disciples of the Mother of Charmens for the Second Education; As the number of scholars arrived at the center of study, fewer and less, measures were taken to keep the school with the number of students who come from the outside school only for the sake of time, who have tried to improve the figure and to maintain the offer in these recent studies, while others, cogitating the improvement or offer of sports-internations in the same building, began to propose an offer of the whole of DBH and Batxiler. On the other hand, by examining the course of education which is located by the Road and BHI, we have the School of the Mountain of Baby and First Education, with the 94 students in this year, all of them D. They don't come to mean 10 grade students who would be potential students at the Road and BHI. The technical studies discovered difficulty in being 10 seniors of the next year, when they're asked for at least 17 students to become a team. Technically, if we could not bring these results to close the center, the commitment to the community, to the present department, and to the chief physician, of the central center, and to the public school of eupscal, is complete. Cold numbers can mark us in one direction, but here, besides numbers, we must consider other factors. In order to turn this situation around, we believe that we must look at all possibilities, even though we are aware of the objective difficulties of this work, as I have already mentioned. But, certainly, if we want to give the institute a new opportunity through an exciting project, it is absolutely essential to involve all the agents who make up the centre, not just the administration. A strategic project, together with the educational community, needs to be promoted to establish the direction to be taken by the institute and to become attractive to families, including teachers. In recent years, with regard to the number of teachers destined for Bidebieta, there has been a positive attitude known and recognized by the centre's own management, and different options have been analysed, from the revision of the school map – which is not Bildu's idea or initiative – to the guarantee of the bilingual teaching model, improvements in internal administration or the creation of an attractive offer, among others. In other words, work has been done, work continues and efforts will continue to be made to secure the future of this centre. Because it is clear that the Bidebieta neighbourhood deserves a quality public school, and for this it is essential the participation of families, it is evident, at the same time, that the involvement of families occurs if the teachers are involved in a reference and agreed educational project. In short, it is clear that this government will stake by means of the Board of Education to promote the new educational project of the Road and BHI. In order that it may be an attractive, illusory, successful project, and, for a time, it must be an explanation of the entire community of education. Our team is in need of defining an education project for the Road and BHI, which will attract our neighbors' families, and which will give proper attention to school-premises, answering their education experiences. Bukatzeko, guk erabateko konfiantza donkagu Uriarte Sailburu anderek mozio hau sorrrazi duen interpelazian esandako hitzekin: "I want to make it clear – in order to do so – that from the department we will support and make available all the necessary means so that the public centers can have adequate projects to guarantee the educational offer, making special effort in those who are in more adverse situations". That's another commitment. And so it is that our public school deserves, as in the case of the highways, to plan as often as it deserves, to provide for a new future, though it is necessary that it should have been sufficiently learned to be a pupil, and the resolution and incomprehensibity of the community of education in this great work. All these considerations led us to a three-point correction together with the Socialist Group. The first demands the Board of Education to encourage and aid the definition and development of a new guide to the Educational Project of the Way and B.H., with the protection of the whole community of schools and education, which will be attractive to the families of families, and which will be attended to by education. The second requires that, while the new education project is being defined and started, the license will remain open for study 2018-2010, DBH, and the first steps of the Batxiler. And let the third develop a campaign for the public eucalyp school by means of the inclusium, social cohesion, close education, etc. Later on, I've been trying to get half-way, thank you for it, and it hasn't been possible. In the original proposal, the Board of Education was asked to define and develop the educational project. It doesn't belong to the Board of Education, the education project belongs to the school, so that, as we put it in our initial correction, we encouraged and confirmed the project of education to be re-establishable and re-establishable. In fact, the protection of the school was taken away, and in our answer, too, it was necessary, as I have several times repeated. And not to blame anyone, but to take care of the departments, the administration, and the community of education. In the second paragraph of this central proposition, the quality of the undergrowth and the service of the dining-room were mentioned; What kind of a project to make in the infrastructure. That's why we didn't get these parts in our counter-proposing policy. But the commitment to these investments is on the table, always according to the educational project. At the second point of the central proposal, it was required to make a special force in that campaign which is being made. The department is working, in the way I have said when I have literally read the expressions of the chief physician, making a special essay on what is to be found in the worst circumstances. At the third point of the central proposal, there were only differences of writing. To make our beginning clear by adding a light end to our proposition. While the education project is running, the license should remain open on the year 2018-2019, in order to keep this school open on the highway. The fourth point of the central proposal was not accepted, because these external activities did not belong to the Board of Education as well as we go back to the same place: The Board of Education must encourage and assist the project of education, and, in the course of the project, the center will have to meet with the council, in addition to building home-towns, inclusion, and cohesion. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, our position and commitment on this subject. I hope at least some people's doubts helped to clear it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u8	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing to the district that hasn't issued any corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs. Bengoechea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u9	I come here to tell you what this request and the amendments we have dealt with have raised in our group. And, I'm going to tell you, this is the story of two frustrations, one at the level of Bidebieta's specific case, and one at the more general level, as far as education is concerned. Let's see, the Bidebieta case. From our group, and not only our group, but the popular groups in the various instances, especially in the city hall, we have always supported the cause of Bidebieta, but in this particular case, seeing the different documents that are on the table, frustration comes from the fact that basically we all agree. What does Bidebieta need? Bidebieta needs to keep the registration open for the project to continue, and in that we all agree and there is the commitment of the Counsellor. What's the second thing Bidebieta needs? To have an educational project, which is true, a new educational project, a new project that contemplates the future of the entity and the way in which education is to be provided. That is true that it depends fundamentally on the educational community, but it is also true that support is needed, help from the department. Let us emphasize that the department should do so – which I believe is not correct – or let us emphasize that it is the mission of the educational community with the help of the department, which I believe is the right thing, on this second point there is also agreement everywhere. What's the third thing Bidebieta needs? He needs investments, investments to be able to offer a decent scenario. And on this third thing, we all agree. So, what I don't understand... We did not present any documents, agreeing with those on the table. So the frustration comes from the fact that, agreeing on what Bidebieta really needs, on the three fundamental pillars, and knowing, because I think we all know, that if someone would benefit from unanimity at this point is the school community of Bidebieta, we have not been able to reach an agreement. We were willing to lose hair in the catera, as is usually said, because, in many things, above all what is the theoretical and the expository part. Because here we have been raised politically to poor Wert, that you will tell me what you have to do with this story (the one who was Minister of Education of the People's Government). We are willing to leave behind things we would not agree with, but the fundamental thing, in what we all agree, we subscribe to, those three points. And why don't we come to an agreement? Well, the truth, out of emphasis on a few points, and basically for one thing, out of mistrust. Because this has ended up being a matter of trust. There is a House group that has confidence in the commitments made by the Education Council, by the Councilwoman, and there is another group that has no confidence. And the truth is that it is rather sad that for a matter of trust, which is almost institutional in the end, but almost personal, we are not able to give Bidebieta what he needs, which is the unanimity of this House of the three things he needs: registration, project and investments, with which we all agree. Well, that is the frustration at the level of this concrete example, but then there is also in our group a more general frustration, which is the political and social frustration, even social, of how we are heading the whole Euskadi educational project. We can't just jump into the woods, run into a problem, propose a solution, face protests, withdraw that solution... This is no way to work. That's why we reiterate here our request that we do..., we ask the Education Council to lead it, but we need a ten-year, fifteen-year study of where we're going in education. That's what we need, but, come on, for us it would be the foundation of the educational performance of the next ten or fifteen years. We have problems that tuition goes down, we have problems of a high number of students from foreign cultures, we have the eternal false antagonism between public school and concerted school... And why do I say it's fake? It is false because there is no real freedom of choice, and that I subscribe with those who have said it here. There is no real freedom of choice, because if a father truly wants (or a mother, logically), if the parents want a creature to come out knowing English and in the public they do not offer a sufficient level of teaching, they have no freedom to choose. If a person wants a certain approach to education that his children receive, for example the schools that Kristau Eskola gathers under his cloak, but he cannot pay those fees, even if they are voluntary, but he cannot pay them, he has no freedom of choice. Freedom of choice requires equal conditions, equal conditions, and I have to admit that they are neither in favour of public school nor of concerted school. All that we have to study in a ten or fifteen year plan, and that is the frustration that we have had and that I fear we will continue to have every time one of these issues comes – and forgive the expression – of a jump-off: there is a problem, I try to fix it, the school community protests, I step back, I propose another... There is no trust anymore, each raises different things. I apologize to Bidebieta's assistants for having also taken care of this other part which is not exactly their problem, but believe me that in the end it is everyone's problem, and therefore it is also theirs: acting in the forest. But I repeat again that we all agree on the same thing: that tuition must remain open for the centre to be maintained; that a centre project is needed that you have to lead, and the third point is that investments are needed that the education counselor has committed. So, as a comfort I will tell you, the document that comes out comes out, you are covered, because either of the two documents is reaffirmed in those three basic points, which are the first need you have. I mean, you would have preferred unanimity, but whatever comes out, your needs are covered by both documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u10	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u11	Everyone can deceive himself, justify, justify, but at last it is clear what one document says, and what the other says. But I won't begin what one gets, what the other picks up... What I said before: it is history to guarantee the future of the Road; it is history to wager the future to the public school, and to wager for the public school, to the public. Here, constantly, the ball takes place at the strategic educational project... I'm sorry, so far, professors, school, what's he been up to? He's been working on an education project, eh, they've been working on it. It is true, in a situation like this, that requires reflection, a renewal, and a tour. And maybe making another education project. But, excuse me, they've been working on it all the time, and the question is: What did the Board of Education do? What did he do? Let me kill the roadway... There's no bet. It hasn't been! Have you been to the Road for a long time? If I'm not mistaken, there's been Mr. Director of the School Schools... Mrs. Cristina Uriarte, what did she tell you? What did the student director think of the building where the DBH is? Did he discuss anything about the situation in the building? We have a visitor soon. If you want to see the situation they're in, we'll get the ratings and we'll make the different interpretations. But I think there's very little room for interpretations. And it's not even a matter of trust, but I want to leave it there... Remember, even with La Milanros, what happened to us; remember! This government shouldn't have closed it. We agreed that the Popular Party, the Socialists Party, and the EAJk school wouldn't close... Look what happened! And it was a self-control, and we made a bet on it, because it was a huge piece of work. Because it has not been consensual, or public, in the function of every education and school of quality. And it is not against one another, but the fundamental principle is public school, because it is a guarantee of equality, cohesion, and inclussion, and because it is necessary to place it in the hands of all the people of education. And because it has to be philosophy, a close, close neighborhood college, a neighborhood webbed, a local education project, a life, a dynamic. And the question to EAJ is this government question: If you are engaged, what measures will you take? We want to know. We want to know by writing it down. We'd like you to tell us what that commitment is. Will you remake the building? Are you guys gonna put the dining room on? For we can have the most beautiful education project in the world, the best of all, because we have experience in it, the best, but the substructures must be worthy, they must be attractive, to bring and bring the families closer. And of this also, we have some experience. And even there, we have to make a bet. And it's no good, it's no good, it's not always good to leave the ball where it's always the usual, but here everyone has his own cares and he has to take care of them, and what we've been trying to do is to write down what he's been told by the head of the school... We just want it to be written. We just want what we're told to do. And that's what we've been trying to do. Because, look, Donostia is not just the beach or the colonnade. Bilbo's not just Guggenheim. And Visteiz is not Basconia or Andre Maria's Square, no. Bilbo, Gasteiz, Donostia... they are composed of different districts and many neighbouring districts, and in these districts there is a community of multiplicity, and we must guard, protect, and explore those districts, and there must be a worthy domestic policy, a business policy must be, a policy of education, which enables all of them to be models. And we cannot forget our neighbors on the sides of the capital. Even those neighborhoods are Donostia: It's Donostia, it's the highway Donostia, it's all Donostia, and we forget, we forget... Because they don't show up in trips or tourist photographs. And that's where we all care, of course, all of us. And the citizens of the highway are ready, teachers are ready, everyone is ready, but we must be ready here to build a education that will not leave anyone behind. To build a society that won't leave anyone behind. They ought to be ready for it, and to have political will to do so, and to which they must be engaged, and to make politics, we must make an investment. And, of course, a strong education project. But they're working on it, too. They're working on it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u12	Please finish... Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together, Mr Martínnez of the Podemos team is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u13	Thank you. Mr. Pastor, it is that I coincide – and again and again – with the words you have commented. And I think that it also hit the nail when it mentioned the existence of these three private concerted schools in the area, and I think it can explain a lot of the situation that Bidebieta is experiencing and that many other public centers are living in Euskadi. Far away, in November, were they engaged to you? Reality is that there are three private centers around, these three centers around, and these three centers are full. Why? A rare meteorological phenomenon? Yo creo que no cuel. There's a lack of investment, if there's a lack of planning, public education collapses, not a rare meteorological phenomenon. It's a decision or a decision. Of course, we agree with the words I've said with everybody else, but we agree with many of them. But then what is the matter with the consent and the legislature to make a treaty? We want to make deals, but with specific commitments, it's not just... We're not just going to sign that, make the whole project and keep the license plates open. This is already done, and that will be done, but there must be other definite commitments. Because it was now said "in this Euskadi you see so much...". In this Euskadi you see so much there is a Euskadi also outside that mirror, there is a Euskadi at two speeds. And we can't allow it, and we have to end that bloody inequality, which we don't say, the data is on the table. We have this case, but we have many others right here in Gasteiz, Bilbao and other big cities, and also, by the way, small villages in Gipuzkoa that have no public school offer. And public school is fundamental, a school for all, and especially committed to the most vulnerable. Horrexegatik gure konpromisoa Bidebietarekin. Animo zuen borrokan! You will have us at your side, we will be watching that it is not only this year, that it is a commitment to the future, a commitment to an educational project, a commitment to infrastructures, because, if not, we will not be able to guarantee that future that deserves so much not only Bidebieta, but also Bidebieta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Pastor... He mustn't speak. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Bengoechea, if you'll excuse me, I'll start with you. You have spoken of a lack of confidence. I can agree, but I am afraid, after observing Mrs Ubera's performance, that we have been more in the face of an electoral act than anything else. I think today, Mrs. Ubera, you've got the wrong place. In the first place, it is not the day of the meeting of Madam Uriartes to-day, you interposed it in December, and of course it matters what action it is that comes out here, and that it matters what each represents and what it proposes. Today we have made our proposal, and you have done yours. I confess it to you, and besides, I had to tell you later, but I thanked you and did everything, if you want to know. And of course it matters what we propose, what we propose, what initiative they are, because we come to this house and try to deal with reality and problems and solve the problem. You talk about visiting, you know, that we can visit. I don't have any problems at all. But as I've heard it, you've had a visit on the 29th of the month. And here every one must examine, perhaps, what he and his fellows have done, before we first tell the rest. And the gathering encouraged this equally different proposal in 2014, about the school in Pasadena, around school... and even then the Government remarked that it was dangerous. You've finished your first shift and come down with arguments and convince me. No, convince you? No, no, I won't take that job, not today, because I think it's quite impossible. And with the tone you've used, you've also said to Mrs. "Look in the eye, look at all these people and tell them..." Well, I have a mind to look into my eyes, it's what happens, I know, they've even talked to the spokesman from the Pontal Party, but they haven't called us either grand-aunt or me. And Mr Martínez talked about the agreement. I confess to Mme. Ubera's will to the agreement she made. I believe that there was also a certain point of hypocrisy, but I am grateful to her, for, look, we have had so many discussions, and so many things of great size, and yet neither Uek nor I have been able to speak face to face. This is a sign of something; but you, in this case of agreement, can say nothing. You introduced your correction, and you didn't even defend it, and you didn't say a word in the middle yesterday, you covered yourself behind Mrs. Ubera. Therefore those who propose it will either please or not, but let each of them own what he has done. You asked what has changed. For I believe that change has not changed much; what there is is an internal work and an awareness of the problem existing in Bidebieta. Not because there was no awareness in November, but because the data said we couldn't..., the cold data said that, given a forecast of ten, 17 were needed to form a group of DBH, from ESO. What's changed? Internal work. And yes, for us, that educational project is key, and depending on that educational project by September will come the investments, services and all kinds of necessary improvements...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u16	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u17	That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u18	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Well, the last thing I want to do is show up here as a mediator who sits above good and evil and starts blaming everyone. No, no, It only transfers the feeling of our group. And, truth, we are willing to swallow many frogs to reach a consensus, but imagine how difficult, how humanly difficult it is to reach consensus when we are faced with conspiracy and conspiracy declarations. Look, I can't believe...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u21	I cannot believe that the Basque Government has a diabolical plan to close public schools to boost the concerted schools, as I believe Mr Martínez told us in a conspiracy rapture. No, no, I think it does the best it can, and the proof is that we are devoting more money to public school than any other community in Spain. Of course he doesn't show us and we'd have to do it another way. And, of course, if something we believe that has the capacity to improve is the Department of Education, because it does not show us or, in our opinion, it reaches the objectives that must be achieved, but from there to assume that there is a conspiracy... Mr. Martínez, really, let him look at it, that all these people have a lot of capacity to improve, but... And then, of course, what I would never say either... That I don't intend to give examples, eh!, each one who does what he wants, nor am I the one who goes and distributes cards that some do well and others do wrong, but I do say what our group thinks. I mean, classifying the work of a congresswoman as performance... I would never do that from any of the congressmen. I think everyone has my confidence that they are great workers, but, I will tell you, especially Mrs Ubera, that she punishes us by providing jobs for others, but, come on, without rest. [[Barres]] So now you'll understand why we don't come to a consensus, right? You'll understand. But I say the same thing again: whatever comes out (and no one hears us, but what comes out of the government), whatever comes out, their three basic demands are guaranteed. And ma'am... No, I can't ask you, because I know it's not the time. Let's see, I don't believe in conspiracies, but I do believe in something that belongs to our culture and our humanistic culture, even if it has a religious source, and it's a saying: "By their deeds you will know them." We have until September to truly know for the facts, not for the presumptions of intentions or the conspiracies like the "Millennium Fourth", no, not for that reason (like Iker Jiménez), until September we have to apply that maximum that is in our culture: "By its facts you will know them". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Now that the discussion's over, we'll go to the vote. And first we vote for the middle-term correction that EH Collectors and Podemos have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u23	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Eukal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u24	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposition of Podemos as a parlamentary group together, concerning the difference of the genus and the trade of labour. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Ms. Arana, representing Podemos, has the intention of introducing and defending her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u25	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. As you all know, next February 22nd is International Day of Pay Equality. It seems a lie, but in 2018 we still need an international day on the calendar to remember especially that women and men should charge the same for the same work. For those who have doubts about the existence of this unjustifiable inequality, we have some data. The Basque Government itself reported a year ago that the wage gap between men and women is EUR 7,489 per year, and the average annual earnings per worker in the Basque Autonomous Community are EUR 31,271 for men and EUR 23,781 for women. The source of this data is the structural salary survey of the INE. It's a complex issue. At the end of the month, we men and women take a different salary, and that makes us less self-sufficient on a daily basis; our unemployment benefits or retirement pensions are generally much lower. Our different wages are also a consequence of other inequalities. For example, unequal access to shiftwork, night shifts, trips and extras. It is almost always we who cannot, because we have to take care of them, we ask for surpluses or part-time work, because we continue to take care of them. And it's always us who have a glass ceiling. In some other countries they call it sticky soil, and it's so sticky that we can't keep climbing. On our heads the glass ceiling, sticky on the floor. All these obstacles we have so that we cannot develop our professional careers. In short, we pass the line, and at the end of the year the women in Euskadi have an average of 7,489 euros less in our pockets. We have brought different initiatives here on this subject. In September 2017 Elkarrekin Podemos recorded this non-law proposal that we are debating here today. A month later, in October, the confederal formation of Uniti Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea registered in the Congress of Deputies a law that aims to contribute to the end of the retributive discrimination between men and women, and that will entail greater transparency on the part of the companies, that allows to detect and correct this inequality, in addition to the recommendations of the European Commission. This is a proposal that goes beyond focusing on wages, since, as we have already mentioned, there are various factors to detect inequality in the workplace that influence the monthly wage that we women take home. We'll see what happens in Congress, though we're afraid it can be hard for it to prosper. I say this because of the bad phrase that Mr Rajoy was later corrected, which told us that the wage gap is not a matter for a government to intervene in. This week, after all the social pressure and the feminist movement, he has mattized. Because this unjust situation, which affects half the population, requires clearer intervention by governments. Of all governments. And because the European Commission, among others, establishes this. That's why Elkarrekin We can bring this initiative. Let us make more and better efforts to eliminate inequalities in the labour market. The European Commission reported in 2014 that women in the European Union earn an average of 16.2% less than men per hour worked. The Commission itself said that so far it has only been reduced at a very slow pace. Faced with this reality, they expressed the Commission's commitment to a strong mobilization of all legislative and non-legislative instruments to reduce the pay gap between men and women. The Commission's recommendation of 7 March 2014 points to wage transparency as one of the keys to controlling the gap. In this regard, Germany has already adopted a draft law on wage transparency in 2017. And in 2018 we started with good news, and it is that Iceland has declared the wage gap between men and women illegal. It appears to be the first country in the world to prohibit by law wage inequality between the sexes and any group, regardless of sex, gender identity, ethnic group, sexual identity, nationality or religion. We do not yet know the impact of these blunt measures. We know that a time frame for implementation is necessary for us to assess them. You'll have to be very careful, and we will be. But what we do know is that what we are taking so far is insufficient, and the pace of progress towards equality, as the European Commission itself says, is slow, very slow. In Euskadi we have a Basque Employment Strategy 2020 and a Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020. In our opinion, it is quite improveable. In particular, the guidelines for equal opportunities mention "continue to focus on the progressive reduction of gender inequalities in the workplace". In a very, very, very generic way, it points out some strategic orientations. We have not found a single indicator (i.e., I invite the Government to propose it) to enable us to assess the strategies announced by the Government. With this initiative, from Elkarrekin We aim to develop concrete content and commitments for strategic orientations related to gender inequalities, and in this case the wage gap. And we really welcome having reached an agreement in this plenary, to give real content to the strategy. First, we propose and agree on the design of an action plan that contains, like any action plan, objectives and indicators, responsible, time frames, allocated resources, that is led, from our point of view, or at least that the Department of Labour and Justice participates fully, being a key actor in this area, because we believe that it is within its own department to be able to detect these kinds of inequalities. Also a plan for 2018-2020 that we can evaluate from this Parliament and also citizens, to know the impact of the strategy and reorient policies and resources that are deemed necessary. Secondly, we urge the Government to promote an in-depth debate with social actors to agree on measures to help overcome the wage gap, which extend to equality plans. Thirdly, we urge periodic reports on the incidence and characteristics of the wage gap in different productive sectors, taking as a reference the study "Salary gap: causes and indicators 2012". These reports will also contain recommendations for further progress in the elimination of the wage gap. Points 4 and 5 refer to awareness-raising, awareness-raising, prevention and detection of the wage gap through campaigns, the mailbox against labour fraud and the different tools available. And last but not least, since it is aimed at changing the rules to achieve wage transparency, we urge the central government to speed up the debate in the Congress of Deputies in order to adopt a law of equal pay and wage transparency similar to that which is being promoted from different states of the European Union. We really welcome having reached this agreement. Today we have come with this initiative of feminist policies, which, as we announced in December, is the first of a social offensive that from Elkarrekin We can boost Basque institutions. An offensive that focuses on issues that are of interest, that worry and improve the lives of a vast majority of Basques and Basques. A social offensive that is aimed primarily at the progressive forces of this House, which we are the majority, so that we can work for the benefit of the people, and especially the people who are worst through it. In Euskadi there is a growing social inequality, a growing job insecurity, problems in industry and chronically poor pockets of poverty, which have to be the basis of work shared by progressive forces. From Elkarrekin We can redouble our efforts in this direction, and try to make what is majority on the streets of our country also majority on the agenda of Basque institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Well, I don't know if we can be catalogued within the progressive forces or not, because, as it seems here that only the progressive forces are going to support this initiative, I don't know, our group doesn't know which one it is, but of course we are going to support it. We were in agreement with the original initiative; we had put in place an amendment that somewhat complemented that initiative, modified that initiative a little bit, and we agree, and I am also glad and happy that unanimity will be reached on this matter. Because it can be classified as a feminist, but I believe that basically this issue of equal opportunities is above all a question of justice. It's a matter of justice. As the proposer has said and was also pointed out in the initiative, employment is an element of social integration, and, as she said, equal opportunities, in addition to being a duty of justice, represent a benefit, a tool of attraction and retention of talent, which allows access to human resources with greater and diverse training, with greater experience, with greater skills, more motivated and involved, because it is ensured and that compensations are received that are equal, that are or must go according to the effort and the results, rather than the sex, culture, or the cultural values of women or men that the person has. The breaking of that glass ceiling, as has been said here, also implies, in addition to an element of justice, an impetus to productivity, because the entry and maintenance of a greater number of women in all jobs, but also in managerial positions, is considered the main source of expansion to increase talent in teams. It is true that the wage gap has multiple factors, and thus the European Commission states that Community legislation has proved to be effective in eliminating wage discrimination when different wages are received for the same work, but Community legislation itself has been less effective in ensuring respect for the principle of equal pay for work of equal value, which is what it is all about. Because, despite these benefits of equal opportunities, inequality is a fact and it is there, and I believe it is the work of all governments, of all institutions, of all social actors, to work, on the one hand, to increase women's employment, to ensure that equal opportunities, and to eliminate that wage gap. Most advanced countries have laws that ensure and guarantee equality between men and women, but the wage gap still exists and continues to exist in all countries. What men and women charge remains different, and remains difficult to combat. It is true that efforts are being made, and in Spain, since the People's Party government, progress has been made in the two tasks: that there are more women than ever working in Spain, and in reducing the wage gap. In 2017, all the female employment that had been destroyed during the crisis had been recovered, and in December last year more than eight and a half million women were working. According to data published by Eurostat, the wage gap is set at a historical minimum of 14.9. Since 2012, it has been reduced by four points (from 18.7 to 14.9), with indices below the European average, half a point below France, six points below the United Kingdom, and more than seven points below Germany. The gender gap in pensions is also narrowing. A maternity supplement was launched on 1 January 2016, with increases in pension amounts of up to 15%. More than 300,000 women are already receiving this supplement, and it has also contributed to reducing this gender gap in pensions by 13 per cent in these two years. But further progress must be made – as has been said here – in line with what other European countries have done, through legislative amendments that improve pay transparency and promote proactive action on equal pay. One can be the law that has been cited and that is also reflected in the amendment that will then be adopted, and also through, for example, the amendment of article 28 of the Workers' Statute, to incorporate the employer's obligation to provide workers and their representatives with gender-disaggregated information on the components and amount of remuneration for jobs of equal value. Or the amendment of Article 46 of the same Workers' Statute, so that companies with more than 250 workers adopt equal pay strategies through wage audits. And, as has been said, equality, women's employment and progress towards the elimination of this wage gap can and must be improved in the Basque Country too. In relation to the female employment rate, this is 11 points lower than the male rate (44.3%, compared to 53.5%), although it should be said that 60% of part-time work corresponds to women, compared to 40% of full-time work. And, as the initiative says, there is also a wage gap in Euskadi, which ultimately leads to a gap in economic power, which is fundamental, as we have said, for social inclusion and economic autonomy. According to the annual wage structure survey prepared by the INE, with the data from 2015, it is a problem that was already chronic in Euskadi, that of the wage gap, but that has worsened with worse behavior during the crisis, especially by the sectors with the greatest female presence, and this is perceived by women in all areas. According to a report by Emakunde, all women aged between eighteen and sixty-four living in the Basque Country express with absolute clarity that in the current working environment there is an enclave in which gender differences are maintained, and almost eight out of ten (78.6%) consider that women do not have the same working conditions as men, and almost three out of four (74.2%) consider that employment opportunities are not the same for women as for men. And, as has been said here, this is corroborated by the data: Euskadi is currently at the tail of Spain, and women's pay represents 77% of men's pay. And, as has been said here, the wage difference is 7,489 euros. Moreover, as is already known, women also occupy the bulk of part-time employment in our autonomous community, and are also punished for more temporaryity. In particular, 80% of parttime work in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is carried out by women. And the reason we find it is that on many occasions women have to accept occupations with greater job flexibility to balance these needs between work and family, which contributes to this job segregation. The other work, that of caring for family members and the household, continues to fall to a high percentage – and so it is – of women, which in many cases prevents them from promoting this promotion on equal terms with men in the labour market, as well as the occupation of this informal work, what brings with it, of course, is this increase in the wage gap. And these figures and data must be combined with occupational segregation as one of the factors that are also at the root of this discrimination. As Emakunde points out, this horizontal and vertical segregation persists in Euskadi, and relegates women to certain types of work that prevent them from taking leadership positions. And so today there are still jobs that are considered to be female, and that in addition, because they are female, because they are considered female, they are paid worse. And there are also numerous areas of activity with a greater presence of men, which, as the proposer has said, benefit from additional remuneration, which they do not only increase these wage differences in all sectors. Apart from such decisive variables in the wage gap as the type of contract, duration or type of occupation, in which wage discrimination is implicit, discrimination is also explicitly given at specific levels of work. That is to say, the same type of contract, duration and occupation, the differences between the wages received by men and women are detected, and that is a question that is set out in the amendment in which an agreement has been reached, which must be studied and pursued by the institutions in our community. Also at the levels of the entrepreneurs we are worse. And in the occupation on the boards of directors, in the occupation on the banks, in all those managerial positions – which in the end greatly exacerbates the wage gap between men and women – the presence of women in some cases is going to say that almost merely anecdotal, and this despite the undoubted benefits, as I said, of implementing equal opportunities, which are undoubted. I believe that much remains to be done, that many things can be done, and that the initiative that is going to come forward today is a good way to continue issues that were already being carried out and to agree among all, between those present in this House and the social partners and other institutions, new measures so that really within the next year or in five years...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u28	Amaitu, medez, Llanos anderea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u29	(I am finishing, Madam President)... within five years we do not have to be here again denouncing the wage gap, or at least we can say that it has been markedly improved in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u30	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u31	Good morning, everyone. In Distopien time, I'm here to tell you a utopia. You know the disctopia are societies based on violence that limit the freedom of people. These fictional stories often resemble reality so much that we must sometimes be afraid of it. But I'm not here today to talk about discopis. I want to tell you aupopia right now. I'll talk to you about a crowd of 2234. In this crowd, it doesn't matter what sex you are born with: You're a cloud, not an I.D. or Alazene. Since the birth of the cloud, it has been the member of the education of the State. While her parents were at work, she was at the free school. He was able to perform his own studies, and he went for a module of Hezik's profession. They're all in charge of homes, and when one can't do it, the other does the watch, the clean-up... different jobs. In this house, no one helps. Everyone cares. The cloud has gone forth into the wilderness, And has respect for its equals. He's been drunk, and plenty, but no one ever made him do anything he didn't want to do. He didn't force anybody either. He has had love and walked as he pleased with what he pleased. Suddenly clouds will have a baby, and the dream will be born. The clouds and their members will have the same permission for the birth of the child, both in time and in care. In his work, of course, he will have no trouble, since everyone has a right to keep him to such rights and duties. When the cloud has made up its mind to go back to work, it will take more care of its work, change its position, and enter the coordination team. If he ever decides to separate himself from his partner, he'll have their baby's custody, his personal life, and his job management. This story might continue, and it could cease to be a utopia if we put it to it. But for the time being, it can seem that we can stand in front of a story more fantastic than a goal. "Agenda 2030. Sustainable development goals". We are filled with agreements that we have reached but that do not go beyond the paper. If the World Economic Forum wishes that we will need at least two centuries, that we will have to wait until 2234 in order to achieve wage equality, we should be very concerned and busy, and very active in trying to shorten these deadlines, because lately the forecasts are not going to stop. "Stomos ante el mayor robo de la history." Y no lo digo yo; lo die la ONU. Nos están robando. A las mujeres nos quire's tempobrecis, nos quieren dependentes. We are facing the biggest robbery in history, and there are no criminal investigations here, no mass arrests, no compensations. We're still here women who are still second-class citizens. At the world level, women earn less than men, averagely less than a quarter. Y todo va bien, señorías. And don't say, "That doesn't happen here," "they're worse in another country." El probleme robo, no distingue de frontis I'm Secretors, I'm old, I'm cualcinos. There is not a single country in the world where women earn equal to men. According to the data of the LAB union, women's wages in the South Basque Country are 33,6% lower than the males; of course, the difference is less if we look at the price taken for work-time, but this shows us that the problem of wages is due to so many factors, as the members who have spoken before me have said that the women are masters of the smaller and partial activities. It's obvious that between the years of 2009 and 2014, the salary company has increased in South Basque Country according to the research for this union. The European Committee also presented a plan in November, proposing three lines: the segregation of the sectors, the difficulty of reaching the higher stages, and the sharing of the guard, which is not only that of paying the same wages, but also that which is forbidden. The laws of equality say so; but the arts of resistance are numerous. Iceland's Certificates Act, the laws of transparency in Germany and the United Kingdom... these only apply to one part of the pay-roll, that is to say, a direct discrimination. And they're perfect. In the United Kingdom, in the BBC chain agency, it is clear that the reporters have had different wages for the same job. This proposal to-day was precisely intended to reach this point of view, and we have everything to do with it. We can also look at the convencies, which only a quarter contains the measures to guarantee the average pay, and we must look at several other topics: the plans of equality, which are formed in enterprises. Therefore, for all this, we must pay little attention to the letter: We know what the law says, and that the companies do this in general; but let us look at the fundamental wages, the ingredients, the night-lus, the rarest hours, the weekends. As I have said, he wanted to answer this point of view together, the proposals which Podemos introduced, and which we shall readily accept. But if in South Basque Country the women have received less than 7.710 euros, it is not only because they have been paid less for the same work, but because men and women have different jobs in the company, because there still exists a large and thick glass ceiling, because there are pretors of feminised sectors. Now we can recall the state of the domestic employees and subordinates. We may mention, too, the inattentional study which women choose from prejudice, the unbalanced work-in-house distribution. The fact that the weight of domestic labors is still falling upon women, and that they have no effective measure for cooperation, is still active in their pay. And on that road, what are we doing? Waiting for what will come from Spain until someone orders something. And in the meantime, are we prepared to receive initiation? It is time to be brave, it is time to try, it may be time to make a mistake, but to continue to walk. To finish, I'd like to highlight an idea: and, on the other hand, the man who is a father loses four percent of his salary, but a man who is six percent won. Women grow poor for having children, men making rich. The idea to turn your head around, right? One more reason why we should look at those agreements which men only sign when they design family politics. If, as LAB says, we want to end the salary of women and men, we need political courage, we need feminist politics, and we need to push these feminists of politics from here, that's our responsibility. In this sense, I wish to make this proposition, and the commitment to work on so many others, to finish it. We meet sometimes, not at other times, because it must assume a great deal of modification. Or we'll be another hundreds of years until we get a parcillation? Are we ready to keep waiting? Or shall we go to action? I'd like to end by saluting those who are working until 2234, and thanking all the feminists who are fighting for a better, more just, more equal world, who are organising villages, villages, 8 March strikes. But especially in Kurdistan, Rojavan, all those fighters who are suffering Turkish bombards. Turkey fears those who fight in exemplary combat against Daeshen, who are beginning a confessional and inclusive example, and we cannot look at it another way. As you say, it is possible to live as a free and equal human being, in respect of nature, and for this, feminism is indispensable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u33	Yes, thank you, President. Today we are discussing at this point of the day the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos on gender inequality in the labour market and we are going to debate the wage gap, and the socialists we are clear that a proactive attitude is essential to tackle from the root the deep gap of inequality not only wage but social, which continues to suffer half the population. We are so clear that if it were not for laws such as Equality, which allowed divorce without the need to blame anyone but of simple will, or for Gender Violence, laws enacted by socialists, today women would be even less free. But we are aware that, despite the fact that we have been at the forefront of women's rights since socialist governments, we have not ended the root issues, the economic dependence that still binds so many women. That is why we are keen to say that there is a need for institutional intervention and leadership and co-responsibility of all actors, especially through collective bargaining. The Socialists are committed to eliminating the wage gap and the deficit in women's employment and the precariousness of their lives; therefore, we include in our electoral programme in 2016 the need to draw up and adopt a law on equal pay and the use of time in order to eliminate this wage gap, which is currently almost 25% in wages between men and women, and which rises to 38% in pensions. And we consider equality to be a fundamental principle. When we talk about equality and the wage gap, we are talking about human rights, and we believe that it is essential to include equality in a cross-cutting way, because it is shown that the most egalitarian countries with the highest rates of gender-balanced participation in decision-making are also the most developed and those with the best economic results. The Basque Socialists believe that measures must be taken to eliminate this wage gap, and that is why we are satisfied with all the efforts made by all to achieve today the best compromise amendment, where points can be collected that will truly serve to fight it. From the union sphere and until now, mobilizations, demonstrations and concentrations have taken place, coinciding with 8 March. This year, UGT and Commissions have called for an arrest to give more visibility to all these problems, to all the discrimination that women and men are suffering and to the wage gap. And the Socialist Party has joined this call for unemployment, because it cannot be otherwise, because already article 14 of the Constitution points out that all Spaniards are equal before the law, without discrimination on grounds of sex, but the reality is still different. The wage gap occurs in many different areas, but it is also realized in a subtle way, different from the scope of the conventions. The average wage between men and women continues to reflect the wage gap: the average wage of women represents 75% of the average wage of men. This wage gap must also be addressed in collective bargaining, but we have only 35% of the employed population currently subject to a collective agreement, 42.9% has extended it, and 19.6% has fallen it, as a result of the lack of agreement in sectoral bargaining in the Basque Autonomous Community. The vulnerability gap is in wage complements, men are held more responsible than women, more dangerous in more masculinized professions, women are held in less senior positions. And female unemployment is 3.5% higher than that of men, and the unemployment rate in our Basque Autonomous Community is 12.55 % for women and 10.61 % for men. In addition, women account for 74% of part-time jobs. During the crisis, the number of overtime paid (not paid because they are still being paid, but the number of unpaid hours has increased) has also fallen, although this trend has fortunately changed somewhat since 2017. However, in this improvement of the allowance, women also continue to be much more affected: of those hours paid, men also continue to charge much more, and women continue not to pay, who continue to work a greater number of overtime hours without being paid. With this, too, we go back to the difference in reality between men and women: even when overtime is paid or not, they are still the worst. All this, in short, deepens the pay gap between men and women. And the main problem on many occasions is the possibility, on the part of women, of being able to prove precisely the existence of this wage gap, which has really made it difficult for them to judicialize and demand that equality on many occasions. Because this difference often occurs in individual agreements between the company and some worker, which is very difficult to know from the partner, because there is no publication, no transparency of what other company partners are actually charging. And that, as I said, makes it difficult then, of course, to claim and demand that this wage gap be corrected. Therefore, in the fight against the wage gap, it is very important that transparency laws are adopted so that companies have an obligation to publish the wages paid, both in basic wages and in wage supplements, to all workers who provide services in them, as is the case in other countries of the European Union such as Germany or Ireland. The wage gap must be eliminated through this route, and also primarily through collective bargaining. Obviously, it is also up to the Government of Spain and the President of the Government to take steps towards the elimination of this wage gap, such as speeding up the adoption of this law on equal pay and transparency in pay, which in the compromise amendment itself, in the sixth point, we highlight the importance it has, because this really is the fundamental way in which such transparency can serve to fight then judicially, or within the companies themselves, against this existing wage gap. It is a vital tool, it is a fundamental tool, it is a tool that has been seen to have been very effective in the countries where it has been launched, and it would be very useful if the adoption of that law were to be speeded up precisely. Then, in our compromise amendment, we also take up important points, such as the elaboration of an action plan developed by the Basque Government for the years 2018 and 2020, which can serve to strengthen policies that are carried out from the departments of Labour and Employment or other departments of the Basque Government that cross-cuttingly also touch on issues relating to the wage gap or equality between men and women. To promote with the social partners this in-depth debate, in the relevant forums, which we in our entire amendment consider to be the Social Dialogue Bureau. And then boost the production of these periodic reports on the incidence and characteristics of this wage gap. And then it also refers to the incorporation of tools, to the anti-fraud box currently in place within the Department of Labour and Justice, in reporting cases of wage gaps. This mailbox has been in operation since 2011, and it receives these complaints and complaints. Nor do we have to forget that it is obviously another tool, because there are other tools to present complaints about the wage gap, such as territorial labour inspections, where it is done either via window or also via email the reception in those territorial inspections of all the complaints that are also presented in the area of the wage gap, which we cannot forget that they are tools that are there, and the mailbox logically completes that tool. And then also the need to realize...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u34	Finish up, Mrs Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u35	(Yes, I'm done, President. Thank you.) ... to promote such awareness-raising campaigns. Campaigns, of course, that are also being carried out, although they can be strengthened from the Labour Inspectorate to combat this wage gap. And then, of course, speeding up, as I said, within the Congress of Deputies, the debate to pass the law on equal pay and transparency in pay is a fundamental thing, and that is what has shown that it is really effective in other countries of the European Union. And I am therefore pleased with the agreement and the compromise amendment, which improves the original proposal, because I believe that all the points within all those who have their powers fit much more. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u36	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. President, members of the legislature, including the chief officers, good morning to all. We've started our first meeting in the year, and we're talking about the pay-roll. Now, as Ms. Arana has discussed, on the 22nd of February this month, the pay between women and men is the day of equality, and when do we stop celebrating these days? Even the representatives of the groups who have contributed to it before me have shown that the indifference of pay produces and perpetuates and perpetuates the lack of equality between women and men. It's one of the factors that nowadays produce and perpetuates the difference between women and men. When we speak on the global level, we women earn less than 23% of the men. The house-housewoman insisted on the fact that, in her participation, she pardons the rest of her feelings, and I intended to keep up the situation which the united nations have described as the greatest robbery in history. And this state, even as it has shown, is something that happens in all countries. We can't find the only reason why this is going on. The addition of several different factors produces the diminution of women's labor, the lower share in the trade, the post we accept, or discrimination between so many other cases. Thus, in general, we women gain less because we have less hours of work in our pay, because we work in the smaller sectors, or because we have fewer delegations in the upper companies, and because we pay lower wages than other men have. Gaur egun, Spanish, soldier-difference Urtean % 24koa da. The difference in wages between men and women is generally aggravated by age, especially when women have children. Mrs Etxebarrieta also commented, and she has provided the data on this. This shows that a large part of the problem is unpaid family work that we continue to carry out disproportionately. Despite the inclusion of women in the labour market over the past decades, the number of active women remains much lower than that of men, and in many cases women spend less hours on their jobs. According to the latest data from the International Labour Organization, 76.1% of men of working age are part of the working population, while the percentage is 49.6% for women. Looking ahead, the UN warns that at the current pace it will take more than seventy years to close the gender pay gap, and therefore sees the need for further specific measures to tackle this problem. Euskadin, among men and women nowadays, is a salary from 7.489 euros, as Mrs. Arana has discussed. Sectors, the largest part is taken in the service sector, where most women join. Even if the data is clear, public opinion often has difficulty determining the factors that cause this discrimination. It is difficult for a citizen to understand and accept the reason of this difference, and this expression is often regarded as a lie. At least I've had a lot of arguments, and people don't believe we charge different than men and women for doing the same job. Consequently the consciousness of this subject does not depend on the importance and anxiety of the question; since we cannot see it, we do not possess its importance, and we do not possess the social consciousness in general, and it is really serious. We need to make this situation visible, we need to focus on it. The distinction of task in the work world is one of the factors in the origin of this discrimination, the vertical and horizontal distinction of the jobs leads woman to certain opposite employments, or prevents her from arriving at the leadership. The consequence of this separation is that there are several employments in which women are the most numerous, and there are fewer rewards in them. With this it must be observed, that women often choose more supple employments, and order the duties of our family to be balanced, by which it strengthens the distribution of their duties. So, in places that have split-hours, we women are all over the world. In Euskal Autonomia Er member, 3% of the small-changed jobs are filled by 3 women. So that between 10 women who work in our autonomy, 2,7 have partial contracts, and in the case of men, this proportion is 3,8, between 100. We must not forget that most of the people who work in the informal sector are women. The care of the family and household labour which are still adapted to us in a great percentage, often prevents us from contesting them with men in the work-world. As in several fields of labour the presence of men is the chiefest, the extra rewards which they receive increase still increase the difference between one and the other, above the fundamental licence. These are blunt figures, which reveal a problem whose factors are – as he explained in Basque – in many cases difficult to identify for public opinion. This difficulty causes social awareness not to be parallel to the magnitude and importance of this problem, and we must make this situation visible and socialize the problem. Only if we are aware can we put in place means to eradicate it. Discrimination is intensified by the existence of numerous areas of activity with a greater presence of men benefiting from additional wages, which widen wage divergences between sectors outside the basic rates. But, apart from such decisive variables on the issue of the wage gap as the type of contract, duration or type of occupation, in which wage discrimination is implicit, discrimination also occurs explicitly at specific levels of work. In other words, at the same type of contract, duration and occupation, differences in wages received by women and men are detected. This is a reality that we must socialize. The wage gap therefore responds to varied and complex causes, and its elimination also requires a different-level approach, inter alia, on direct discrimination in job evaluation criteria, market inequalities and gender stereotypes, and the entrepreneurial culture generated by beliefs and discrimination factors. As you can see, once again we are talking about inequality, about another of its crude and numerous factions, and in order to be able to deal with them, the commitment of all is necessary. Once again I appeal to that commitment, and let us work together. It's the responsibility of the congressmen. It's the administration's responsibility. It's a business unit charge. It's the responsibility of unions. It's the responsibility of the whole society, of all of us. And what tools are necessary for this? Or what are the jobs to be done? We, at least in this medium which we have agreed to this day, have tried to combine what we think best. And in this case, in truth, we have been obliged to leave many differences on one side, and it is most fortunate that we have really been able to bring my happiness to this agreement. Let's see if we can get along the whole course of the whole course of the course of the course. And in this middle line, what did we talk about? We talk about the mailbox against the fraud, and about the other ways of entry, a new impulse, an impulse, and a new campaign, because there are many accusations which are not the only means, but they are also accused of inspection, and we can't find out a number of cases, and we can't afford to play them, in order to make a collection of these particular facts by means of a law of transparency. Gure zuzenketan ez genuine aipatzen, bathe erdibidekoa approvedxatu nahi izan dugu guardantasun-lege horri bulltada emateko, eta adibide gisa ditugu Iceland eta Germany. Iceland and Germany have just adopted new legislative measures to give effect to the principle of equal pay. Among other cases, in Iceland, for example, all companies with more than 25 workers must make public the wages of men and women, and certify each year that they comply with the principle of equality; otherwise they will be punished. Such enterprises are extremely necessary, and therefore we receive them in our middle course, in order that the Government of Spain should receive a law of this kind. On the other hand, the system of indicators should be tested with companies and adjusted to the methodology for the development and diagnosis of equality plans, which is also very necessary. And that is why I encourage those companies that want to commit themselves to developing equality plans and working together with Emakunde, providing information and implementing initiatives to help narrow the gap. And I take this opportunity to remind you that there's still...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u38	Thank you, Arriega. Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u39	Bai, second bat, mesad. We're asking you to make different plans. But I would like to conclude by saying that we understand that all these issues raised in the compromise amendment are complemented in a very appropriate way, in order to identify measures necessary to further progress towards the elimination of the wage gap. That may be a utopia, as Mrs Etxebarrieta commented, but if I would like to make this reflection of Darko Suvin, who says that it is "the verbal construction of a particular human community in which institutions, norms and individual relations are organized in a more perfect beginning than in the society of Thomas Moro". We live in a society that is...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u40	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u41	... Therefore, we have already made progress and we continue to make progress. We're getting close to that utopia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. There's gonna be a answer shift... ? All right. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together for Podemos, EH Collect, Eukal Socialists, and the Middle Amendors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u43	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentary People of Euscal, as the Parlamentarian Groups had made, concerning the intervention of the historical areas belonging to Arba, Bizkai, and Gipuzicus. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Barrio, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u44	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, counselors, counselors, good morning again. Well, we present this initiative with the understanding that since its transfer to the Basque Autonomous Community, it is necessary for the outside bodies of the historical territories to take over the management of something that by law also belongs to them. The provincial archives retain centuries of documentation, documentary heritage of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, history, and, in that sense, there they are, ready to be transferred. In addition, Act No. 27/1983 of 25 November 1983 on Relations between the Common Institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Organs of their Historical Territories (the Historical Territories Act) states: "The external organs of the historical territories have exclusive competence, which they will exercise in accordance with the private legal regime of each of them, in the following matters", and here we are told which subjects. In point 12, archives, libraries, museums and this type of institution shall be owned, in this matter of management or competition, of the historical territory. We have raised this initiative and we have also put some other question to the Basque Government, and we see that of course there is something to be done, there is a way to go, and that is why this initiative too. Also in other institutions, such as the General Boards, there have been connected and concrete initiatives on the transfer of provincial archives to outlying institutions. Well, to focus this non-law proposition let's look at the background. The Provincial Historical Archive of Álava – I'm going to focus a little on that example – is created in 1946 and is installed in some premises of the Ramiro Institute of Second Teaching in Maeztu. I mean, right here, in these rooms, in one of these offices of this Parliament, of what is now the seat of the Basque Parliament, the Provincial Archives was there in 1946. In 1976 she moved to the Casa de la Cultura (near here, on the Florida promenade), sharing a building with the Provincial Public Library, and in 2004 moved to the current headquarters of the Zumaquera promenade. The current archive building and headquarters was built between 2001 and 2002, and has been open to the public since 1 June 2004. The building, the provincial archive, that of Álava (every reality is different in the historical territories, but this is the example that comes to me today, because it has also been dealt with in other institutions, such as the Juntas de Álava), has twenty-two linear kilometers of shelves. It is a considerable capacity; by comparison, for example, the General Archives of the Indies of Seville has eleven linear kilometers. In any case, of the total capacity, the file occupies approximately eight kilometers. The operation of the provincial archive is twofold. On the one hand, as an intermediate file of the Central Administration, and on the other hand as a historical file. As an intermediate archive, what is preserved is the documentation generated by the General Administration of the State, the Peripheral Administration in the province, with all the delegations, subdelegations, Fogasa, Labour Inspectorate, Provincial Directorate of Traffic, prison, etc. And as a historical archive its function is to collect the notarial protocols of the territory with more than one hundred years old and the permanent preservation of the archives of the hearings and courts, registers of mortgages from the Property Registry. The archive retains twenty-nine fonds and four documentary collections, and the most important, voluminous and consulted documentary fund of the archive is that of notarial protocols, with almost 15,000 volumes in its repository. Along with the notarial documentation are also important the judicial funds of various and small Alawite localities, as well as some small private funds but of great historical and documentary interest. The archive also carries out research, dissemination, dissemination, exhibitions, lectures, lectures, courses, and also continuously organizes guided tours of students, students, scholars, etc. Well, the ownership of the provincial historical archives is the responsibility of the State, but by agreement of 22 June 2011, through a mixed commission of transfers, it was transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country by Royal Decree 3069/1980, in the matter of the management of the archives of state ownership, on the basis of that decree. As a result, the management of State-owned archives was transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, committing the autonomous community to the management of those archives within its scope, in accordance with the relevant agreements signed between the two administrations. The State reserved the functions as the owner of the real estate and documentary groups held in those archives, and on which they are in storage from the State-owned services or centres. In the minutes of the Joint Committee on Transfers, to which I referred earlier, of 22 June 2011, it was already envisaged that the General Administration of the State would assume the declaration then verified by the representation of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and confirmed its agreement that "the functions transferred in the management of archives of state ownership will be carried out on a regular basis by the outside bodies of the historical territories of the Basque Country, and therefore the inter-administrative cooperation relations, the signing of the relevant conventions and any other coordination measures are precise, in accordance with the terms of the agreed transfer agreement, will be sought to link them with the historical territories of the Basque Country, to whom the exercise of the transferred functions will be entrusted". In other words, there was already a warning to ensure that the transfer received by the autonomous community would then be delegated to the different historical territories, and subsequently, on 31 August 2012, the agreement was signed between the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport and the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country on the management of State ownership archives. We have to say that in 2012 and 2014 initiatives, motions, at the General Councils in Álava, were approved on the implementation of the legal procedures for the implementation of competition, guaranteeing (there is also one element of the issue) the corresponding and sufficient funding. The actions that were carried out as a result of these motions in the previous legislature in the boards, to urge the transfer, were carried out, and in particular efforts were made to ensure that the relevant transfer agreement was adopted by the Mixed Commission on Transfers, the Basque Government and the Historical Territory of Álava. Well, the approach taken by the autonomous community, i.e. by the Basque Government, by the then deputy general, the proposed agreement, was rejected at the time. Why? Precisely because it is not accompanied by sufficient funding in line with the functions and services to be transferred. And that has become apparent on some occasions. However, the interest in assuming such a transfer with a neutral effect on the costs to be borne by the budgets of the historical territory of Álava by the Provincial Council of Álava is something that should be normal and logical in relation to the assumption of a transfer of these characteristics, for that particular management. Well, there have also been other political initiatives in the General Boards of Alava in relation to such issues, and what must be clarified of course is the funding linked to the transfer, so that it is neutral, so that the effect of that transfer is neutral, and so that it is logical and normal. We have presented this parliamentary initiative regarding the follow-up to the item on this subject at the General Councils of Álava, with the approval of the motion, on the basis of a motion that was presented at the General Councils of Álava, which called on the Foral Councils of Álava, where appropriate, to seek from the Basque Government the transfer of the management of the provincial historic archive of Álava in our historical territory. Well, it is clear that this is where things are going, it is clear that it is a road that has begun to go but has not been completed, and that we want it to be completed. And that is why, in the light of that out-of-court agreement, we have asked before the plenary of the Basque Parliament for the adoption of the following non-legislative proposal, understanding that some of these issues and some way has been taken, but that the fundamental thing is missing. And the key also remains the ultimate materialization with the corresponding financing of that transfer. And that is why we call on the Basque Parliament, in this initiative, to urge the Basque Government to take the necessary steps to complete the transfer of the management of the provincial historical archives to the respective historical territories. On the other hand, we are talking and asking this Parliament to urge the Basque Government to promote such transfer and agreement, with a sufficient funding agreement to the provincial historic archives, in line with the functions and services to be transferred, so that such transfer has a neutral effect on the costs to be borne by the budgets of the historic territories. We think that this is logical, that it is normal to establish such a transfer to the outside organs of the historical territories called to assume the management of the provincial historical archive. It's normal. We are talking about many things: we are talking about heritage, we are talking about historical heritage, we are talking about documentary heritage, we are talking about our history, we are talking about guaranteeing in the historical territories that documentary heritage, of doing so together with everything about public, notary, judicial political production, within our historical territory, of our three historical territories, and doing so in an effective, efficient, modernizing way of the Administration, and without duplicities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u45	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. This is the turn of the teams that have issued the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u46	Thank you, Madam President. I too could have brought the case that I know best, which is that of Gipuzkoa and which is in conditions, as Mr Barrio knows, totally different, given that in 2014 the transfer agreement took place between Mr Erkoreka and Mr Garitano. So I am not going to reiterate what the Gipuzcoan case is, but I am going to position myself in common with regard to the position maintained through the whole amendment tabled. The origins I believe have quoted them, quickly, but Mr Barrio has quoted them, and we all know that the issue here has not been peaceful in that sense, since there was controversy among the political forces over who should finally be left with that ownership of the transferred competition, of managing the provincial archives. I have read several of the debates that have taken place in this Parliament, and it is true that, despite the very legal argument, the issue was not so much a legal one, because both positions maintained support in our legal order, but rather a legal-political one, understanding that some wanted a national archival system, with a common archival policy, a Basque archival service, which was integrated, managed directly by the common bodies, versus those which did maintain that the ownership of those archives, and therefore the execution of the management of the provincial archives, should fall to the outside bodies. It is true that at that time there has been a wide debate, a long time has passed, and time has not been wasted. Finally, I believe that the Basque political forces present are going to put, above and beyond those issues which are finally country model and which are being debated in other forums, that progress is being made in an execution as optimally as possible for the citizens of that transfer that we actually have in our hands. That is why the whole amendment has been tabled. We too think that the amendment of the whole presented is perfectly compatible not only with that more optimal management of the competition, or taking into account the management and execution of the outside bodies directly, which have been doing, because of the proximity of these archives or very similar archives, but also because the other debate will soon have it, when we discuss the preliminary draft law of archives, that we will have the opportunity to put order on that issue as well. I think Mr Barrio mentioned that too. The Socialist Group maintains that progress must be made, that the debate has taken place, and that above who is the way. And how is it that there is finally an agreement, at least partial, on the issue of someone taking care of that orderly management of the transferred competition. Because for something we ask for the skills, to execute them and do it in the best possible way. Obviously, we do not give up our position. We want that to be compatible with a file law that establishes a Basque file policy, a litigation unit and a national fit of all the files (even we should talk about the private ones) within that Basque law. Furthermore, the criteria that are now being implemented in the areas of shared competence within the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which are the criteria of governance and shared management, where coordination, for a common Basque policy on those issues where there are competing competences, are at least being done in the best possible way. Indeed, I will not tell what are the conditions of Gipuzkoa, nor those of Bizkaia (the ones of Álava already counted them Mr Barrio), and what are the differences. It is true that in some territories the agreements have been broader among the various political forces to execute and assume that transferred competition. I have told you the Gipuzkoa case, which was in 2014, and Mr Erkoreka can confirm that. And in other places, as in fact in the Foral Diputación de Álava and in the General Councils of Álava, there are greater differences in ownership and also in funding, which Mr Barrio has explained and detailed. That is why we stick to a global positioning: yes to an agreement for shared management, an interinstitutional integration of the exercise of competence that we have achieved, that is in our hands, and to do the best possible, taking into account those organs, the outsiders, that by proximity and location, and because they have been executing those transfers (for example, in the case of Gipuzkoa, that have dealt with those archives historically), can help to do so much better, within, that is, as I said before, of that common system of archives that we understand that we will all agree to conform to the future law that will come to us in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians represent the group, Mr. Arrears is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief and lady of the department, members of the legislature, good morning. Well, as mentioned above, the only file to be transferred is the Provincial Historical Archive of Álava, and I can say from this rostrum that sooner than later it will end up being transferred, because there is a clear synchrony between two institutions at this time in the hands of the same political parties, in a context different from what we saw in the previous legislature, when the People's Party ruled the Foral Diputation of Álava. There is talk in the GNP of economic needs, of economic needs accompanying each transfer of the archive and of adapting this financing to needs, but it gives me the feeling that it is done with a somewhat outdated photo, since in recent years in the Provincial Historical Archive of Álava there have been very important savings measures, both in the electric bill of the building, which has been renegotiated (it has fallen by about 40 %), also in the installation of a closed surveillance circuit, there has also been a significant saving..., and therefore the costs of maintaining such transfer are not the same today as some years ago. This increased efficiency in the use of public resources will be further increased at the time of such transfer, given that the synergies that will be created between a foral and a provincial historical archive that are currently only three hundred metres away will be very important in times of personnel management, space management, etc. Therefore, if such a transfer is recommended in any province, it is in Álava. In Gipuzkoa, for example, one of the files, the foral, is in Oñati, the other is in Toulouse; in Bilbao they are three kilometers away. Therefore, if we talk about synergies, they are very important in this case. Therefore, let us not look at the fixed photo of seven years ago and the reasons that became a rejection of such a transfer, because the maintenance costs have also changed. What remains the same or similar is the provision that must be made for such a transfer, because it is regulated, is regulated in Law 2/2007 on Resource Distribution Methodology, which is currently in force and is a fair law and is an equitable law, which regulates how resources are distributed horizontally and vertically, vertically in this case, and is a law based on income, collection and population of each historical territory. That's why it's fair and fair. And the distribution in this case to Álava, where Mr Barrio focuses his attention on his GNP, is 15%, 35% Gipuzkoa, and approximately 50% Bizkaia. That is, of the 2.5 million in which this transfer is budgeted in the Cup, of the 2.5 million, 450,000 go to Álava. And I can say that they are sufficient in the current context, and that they will have a virtually neutral impact. The agreement is not yet closed, but moving within the framework we already know, from the previous context. That is, that, including in the foral balance sheet the foral file and the historical file, we are talking about a neutral impact on the territory, that is, that it will not cost the citizens of Alavese a single euro. And therefore, when all the foregoing things are explained to me, I doubt not, and what is demanded properly in this other, or, whether I may well imagine: They're coming in for $2,5 million, this transfer has 2,5 million predicted. Of these $2,5 million, 15 percent of them reach ara. So what do you expect? Changing this percentage? To change the law, to change this percentage, and to get rid of Araba, even in this or this area? Or change those $2.5 million and add more? For if that be the last, we agree: and at that table are your government, the Spanish Government, and ours, so you have your instructions, too? For the fact that if the state had been tested in 1980, the trapassa was made in 2011, which is because we want it because we want it to be, logically, our jurisdiction, because we see it directly and completely, when we offer a service, we do it better, and we and the people see it too, don't they? The law of the archives will probably reach the legislature in this legislation, and penetrate deeper into the model of an integral management, towards the attainment of a more efficient pattern of future events, in order to increase these symptoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u49	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. It's your turn, Mrs. Podemos. Together, Mrs. García, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u50	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. The initiative that the Basque People's Group has brought to this plenary and that we are debating today has to do with transferring the management of the provincial historical archives of Álava, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia to the historical territories with a neutral cost for the budgets of the three territories. Both the proposal put forward by Mr Barrio and the amendment to the whole that the groups that make up the Government focus on talking about competences for each other, or require full competence or full ownership. However, for us, for Elkarrekin Podemos, we must put at the centre of the debate and we must put in value and take into account the opinions of professionals and professionals, and the demands of people who have been managing these archives for a long time. During these years, the Committee on Culture, Euskera and Sport has witnessed the appearances of the various directors of the provincial historical archives, as well as the head of the Archives, Library and Publications Service of the Basque Government, Ms. Begoña Urigüen. These interventions have taken place in the context of the elaboration of both the law on cultural heritage, in which we are immersed, within its process of submitting amendments, and the law on comprehensive document management, which appears to be leaving it by the Basque Government by 2019, after several attempts in other legislatures. To begin with, and after listening to the needs of professionals in the sector, we need to be clear about the role of archives at the present time, which is not limited to being a repository of various legacies or documents that are consulted by scholars, it is not only limited to the preservation of the documentary heritage, but its main purpose is the dissemination of information about that heritage, and therefore it is a tool in the implementation of the management of the public, the guarantors of transparency and good governance. More important than who is competent is that they are well managed and ensure access to information and culture. What the archives of the Basque Country really need is a comprehensive document management law, which includes policies on transparency and access to documents, both paper and electronic; legislation on methods of destruction of documents of no historical value and the permanent preservation of documents of no such value. There is no national system of archives in Euskadi, a system that includes all the documentation with heritage value of the entire Basque public administration (local, foral and autonomous), and even that of organizations or individuals that retain documentary heritage with historical value, such as the Church, trade unions..., because even private collections, if included in the documentary heritage, would have a public character. It is a very important task, so, rather than deciding on transfers of powers here, we should urge the Basque Government to make a law that is consensual with the institutional areas involved, and that from the beginning of its drafting they have professional associations and technicians so that a system can be built that really serves the development of common public policies in Basque and to improve the service provided by the Basque public administration. It should be remembered that the provincial historical archives that we are talking about today were created in 1931 by the Second Republic to collect, preserve and disseminate notarial documentation over a hundred years old and that generated by the General Administration of the State in each province. In July 2011, the management and maintenance of the service of the three centres was transferred to the Basque Autonomous Community, and the central administration retains ownership of the building and the documentation it retains, as in the rest of the autonomous communities. Interestingly, the rest of the provincial archives were transferred in the 1980s to their respective autonomous communities, so here in Euskadi should not be very interested in this transfer, to wait until 2011. Since then, these files have not really had any visibility; de facto the Basque Government does not actually manage the files, gives them an annual grant. As I mentioned at the outset, one of the main functions of a file is to facilitate access to and dissemination of its documentation, and at this time that we are experiencing the computer processing of documentation is essential for electronic access to the images and descriptions of the documents. Until 2011 this was done within the Spanish archives portal; since then it has no documentation management system. It is inconceivable that they have been carrying out a cataloguing and description of the documents to which we do not have electronic access for six years, because the Basque Government has not been concerned to coordinate and create a system of archives in Euskadi, and that they have the documentation of notarial protocols in a limbo. As long as they decide and do not decide to transfer the competences of the outlaws, nothing is done in this respect, because as far as the daily work is concerned they provide the following services: general information, advice on the search for and location of documents in the documentary funds they wish, face-to-face consultation of documents, direct consultation of original documents, copies of microfilm or digital media, reproduction of documents in paper or digital media, use of the auxiliary library of the archive, cultural and educational activities, pedagogical visits, courses and conferences, days and dissemination workshops, assignment of public spaces, exhibitions, training of interns in practice, loan of documents for exhibitions, loan of documents to the Administration, and a long time and so on. I invite those who have not visited them to check that there are perfectly equipped facilities in these archives that are not used, and that suffer from a lack of workers and staff. Whole restoration workshops that remain empty without restorers and without work. We must give a solution to this reality. And I say "we have" because, despite the fact that the ownership of the buildings remains state, in practice the Autonomous Administration can expand the functions of the provincial historical archives by entrusting them with the functions of historical intermediate archives of the respective autonomous systems. Right now all maintenance and personnel costs are covered by the Basque Government. And we want to propose something constructive and in what the professionals themselves would agree: while the laws of cultural heritage and integral document management are being made, why don't we propose that interinstitutional cooperation agreements be made, that there be an area in which Basque archival archives meet to agree policies, procedures, uses, sharing spaces... Is that what you're talking about? There is an Archives Council that does not function or meet, and there is the Association of Archivists, Librarians and Documentaries of Euskadi, which is an unofficial area. There is also a much more worrying issue than who has the competence of the archive, and it is the destruction of them. We had the opportunity to read in early June an article signed by twenty-five historians entitled "A Threat to History", denouncing that the Euskadi Judicial Expediting Board, created in 2004, had destroyed more than seventy tons of civil, criminal, social and contentious-administrative documentation. On this board there are three jurists and a representative of the Department of Culture of the Basque Government, director of the Historical Archive of Euskadi. The judicial documentation is the richest that the historical archives retain. With its destruction the possibility of making history rigorously will be limited, and wings will be given to pamphlet literature, depriving future generations of the right to truth. That is where the institutions must intervene to prevent these stumbling blocks from eliminating judicial sources. A few days ago we also read that the Ertzaintza had recovered two thousand historical letters stolen from public and private archives, from 1604 to 1895, from Euskadi, Navarra, Extremadura and Catalonia. There are about six hundred letters stolen from Basque archives in unknown whereabouts. That's a real problem, because I'm afraid they're not digitized and it's a lost heritage forever. Their property has not guaranteed us their survival; their reproduction or digitization would have done so. With regard to the GNP submitted to us by the PP and the amendment in its entirety, we will vote against it, because we believe that the archives of Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Álava should be managed by the Basque Government and be part of a framework or system of archives of Euskadi, where the Historical Archives of Euskadi run by the Department of Culture and the administrative archives that the Department of Finance and Public Administration manages. It is necessary to coordinate, to agree on joint actions, to make laws dealing with comprehensive document management, in order to offer women citizens access to documentation, which implies transparency in public management, to consult professionals and professionals before taking a competition dance that does not contribute anything to the operation and modernization of the administrative and historical documentary heritage of the Basque Country. The important and fundamental thing is that we all have access to archives and historical documents, since without archives there is no memory, and a country without memory, as you know, does not even know where it comes from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Protect the representative of the EH team, Your Honor, Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u52	Good noon, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. President. And my intervention will be one of the most of the reasons for explaining and explaining the position of the Basque Country to the United States, and from that point it will be plain what sort of votes we shall vote and the reasons for that vote. First of all, what we have to say is that this proposition is the basis of June 2011, and in this decision the headline of the files in the estara was passed over into the hands of the baobabgestio, forgive me, which passed over to the institutions of the Basque Country. And I think this is a very important and important thing to be considered, if we see what is said in the first article agreed on, that matter is only a traspasis, "en matter de gestion de artaridad," that is, the only thing that remains in the hands of Euscal City. That's the legal frame we have on this subject. We have another law on the other side, and it is a decision made in 1983 through a law. What is said here is that there will be historical territory which will have exclusive jurisdiction in the area of the archives. I think this had a direct connection with what had happened at his own time-that is to say, it was a decision due to the transition, and had a direct connection with what appeared in that law. But it's true that there's been a lot of time here, and at this moment the conditions are quite different. So what we have to say clearly is that at this moment, the Basque Country is a new example that Collector defends and defends another example, not only in relation to the State, but in the relationship which ought to be made or formed in the Basque Country. Then, as we see this, we think that we must make a decision at the moment, and that is the decision: or we have increased the manner of working among the Foralism or other things, or build the people. I mean, we're at that crossroads and it's really the problem. And in this we have no difficulty in saying what we think, and what we think is that the time or time has come to make the people, and what is the consequence of it? Well, we have to start talking about the national archives of the Basque Country. And from this starting point we cannot accept either one proposition or the other. It must also be remembered that this is done in Catalonia 20 years ago, and that all these archives are in the hands of Generality, which happened 20 years ago! And what we think is that we must form a real national file and that all other things must be surpassed for that purpose. But this also is meant clearly: but what we think is, that all means ought to be well handled, and that the foundations of it should really be carried forward, with the proposals we propose. Eta hori guretzat oso gauza inportantea da, ikusten dugulako, ba, artxibo bat badela guztiz beharrezkoa, fundamentala. Eta zergatik? Because our memory is there, it is treasured there, and the memory we think is lost or can be forgotten if it is not investigated, that it is essential to consult it, and that this interrelationship can allow us file users to have their work easier. But we do think that the only sensible and reasonable thing about this issue is that the archives of Euskal Herria are in one hand and that they are the competence of the Basque Government. But let them be real competition, not management. Eta zergatik? Nahi dugulako map Jeneral beats up. Ez dugu nahi toki deberdinetatik unbilitated. Momentu honetan daude artxibo desberdinak (batzuk indarrean, batzuk egiten, beste batzuk ez dakigu oraindik zelan daden), eta horregatik posetzen dugu posetzen duguna. And besides, we think it's possible. Here one thing is always planned, and it is what the Spanish Constitution says. Now the Spanish Constitution says one thing in article 159: he says that the Spanish State has only one and exclusive competition for the defence and care of the patrician culture. Baina hori da, benetan, arazoa daukaguna. Is it zein da arazoa? That in the state of autonomy through this law Madrid disposes and the autonomy executes, and that is the management. And that's what we don't want. Why? Because the state reserves ownership, and management is passed on to people when they make these agreements, and they are entrusted with these terms. That is to say, it comes to say from Madrid: "You cannot make quiet decisions here either, in this case about the archives, but you carry with you all the mochuelo of the management and payment of things in those agreements that we have made". That is why we make one thing very clear: the transfer of full ownership and full powers in all archives, and management through the Basque Government. Eta ikusten dugu, sheath, possible time of hers. Eta ikusten dugu hori possible her, ze Autonomia Statutuak posetzen du bere 10. artikuluan zelan gure komunitateak daukala eskumen esklusiboa artxibotan, bibliotekatan eta museutan, beti baldintza batekin: "If you consider that these archives are of interest, because they refer to the history of the historical territories or for some reason of that kind". Con cual, though one thing is said by the Constitution of the Common-wealth, which makes it possible to say what is said in the other; " la gestion singitariad del bien, sin capacidad decisión, no tienae absolutee ningúndo." Therefore we shall not vote for those who propose it, nor for the repentant. It's an amendmentkinan alde era ez, ba ikusten dugulako gauza bat. Izan ere, testuak exacten from the "we're still cheering up." Man, we're not on a football field! We are in a parliament, we are in an institution that has to demand, ask for things and do control, and encourage someone to do something does not cease to be a declaration of intentions, but has little content for a non-law proposal in relation to a proposal made by another parliamentary group. We do not want to encourage, we want it to become effective. What we want is to do what we have a right to, and manage. That's why we don't even see that we vote for each other. Our position is clear, and that's what we're planning right now. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u53	Thank you, madam. In answer turn, representing the Basque Potula, Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u54	Thank you, President. Well, things have become clear. We can and Bildu defend another model, Basque neocentricism, that's the model they defend, a new Basque centralism, and we don't. We are outlaws, we think there will always be the Basque file, the central file, and there will be the outlaws as long as there are outlaws. So we, in the dichotomy of where the provincial archives are installed, ceded in their management by the state, therefore, prefer that they focus on the outside archives, precisely because of proximity, because they talk about issues that have to do with our historical territory, with their reality; they connect the outside history with the provincial history in political or institutional terms. So, it's the ideal, more than in a big file that's already going to have other functions, and of course we're going to defend it as well. Look, you don't have to make the subject of ownership so obvious and as such an essential element. Ownership in this area is a mere public record. The important thing in this matter, however, of something living as the archives are, is its functioning and the management of the documentary heritage, in relation to what we have all recognized: with the importance of documents, of history and of knowing our history and having it as a living element and that can be investigated, analyzed. That is the fundamental element, not so much a title, which is a registration of a number of issues that do not affect. Because here it was possible to invest in relation to the archives, they can be expanded, they can be expanded in personnel, in capacities, in management... I mean, in that sense I think that this issue is irrelevant. The important thing is the other: where it is located, how it is located and in relation to that... That is why we want to know what it costs, and make the transfer at that cost that represents this effective management of provincial archives. It is also important what has already been made clear: that this should be completed, so that when the archival documentary heritage bill arrives, it will be completed with this advance and with this rationalization that is called for today in relation to the provincial archives. That is, where they are located, we understand that along with the outsiders, but that is the element that is going to be good precisely so that this bill is not limited by a non-transfer, or by not completing that rationalization. Of course the Euskadi file with the foral files, in this case along with the provincial ones, is absolutely compatible. Furthermore, I am glad that Mr Arruabarrena has spoken about the way forward, he has spoken of a number of savings that will ensure that we can understand that this neutral effect of the transfer can be achieved. Well, let's hope that's the case. Previously there was no such clarity with regard to the neutral effect, especially with regard to the provincial file of Álava. And that's why... Mr. Arruabarrena, you said what you asked for. For the cost of the provincial archives of Álava to be analysed, and the effect to be neutral on time for this transfer, and the cost of that management of the provincial archives to be truly seen, and that does not have a negative impact on the management of the Foral Diputación de Álava and the outside bodies in relation to this issue. Mrs. García has spoken about the professionals. We present this initiative here because archival professionals have asked us to do so. We have consulted, it has not occurred to us from good to first. Indeed, we understood politically that the transfer of the provincial archives to the outside archives was normal and correct, politically, but we were also asked to do so. Because they have seen and analyzed that it will be better to manage those archives, that documentary heritage, through this formula. That is, that is why we too have been perfectly advised by the professionals. And in line with what Mrs García also said, we do understand that archives are something alive. He said they didn't have visibility. We think they did, we think they did have visibility! They're a living thing, they're not just a big warehouse. No, no, no! And we know him and value the work. They are a cultural center, you can say, archives. I know essentially the provincial archives of Álava, and they are a cultural center for dissemination, dissemination, research; conferences are given, conferences are given, courses are given... People visit him, professionals and students, I believe he is also connected to a university cultural reality. And I think they're a living thing. And finally, and we've seen it... And in this legislature the deputy of Euskera, Culture and Sports, Mrs Martínez de Luna, was questioned in General Councils, in a full control that took place on June 1, 2016, about what actions she had carried out with the Basque Government in relation to the transfer, and if she was going to defend the deputy enough funding according to... The Member replied, admitting that archival funds are a great asset for our historical territory, and therefore the most appropriate thing is that they are managed by the outside institutions of each territory, each within its competence. He also added that the outlaw parliament and the Basque Government were engaged in dialogue to implement the functions and services to be transferred, committing themselves to defending sufficient funding, and that it should have a neutral effect on the budget, thus fulfilling the above-mentioned motions. That which Mrs Martínez de Luna acknowledged – and she also said that she was going to work on it – is what we ask in our non-law proposal. Well...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u55	Please finish, Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u56	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. We will vote in favour of our initiative, as it cannot be otherwise. We will abstain on the initiative presented by the Government, because we want it to continue... "Animar", of course, is not the word, indeed, Mr Arruabarrena, in a parliamentary procedure of these characteristics. But, well, we want it to be completed, and by the time the law of documentary heritage and archives comes this is resolved already, and to the satisfaction of all parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u57	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u58	Thank you, Madam President. I had to explain myself fatally, Mrs. Garcia. I had to explain myself fatally, because I never talked about who was exercising it, who was executing it and who was the competition, who had been transferred to. I have talked about the ultimate objective, the accessibility of all these archives and a shared and integrated management until there is that Basque law that allows – and I have also said, according to the Socialist Party, its positioning – a national system of archives, with a Basque policy of archives, which, yes, starts from a coordinated and integral management of the different institutions that have competence in this matter. At no time have we given up our position or how that can be discussed in the future law. In fact, all that he has told me I remember very much, because it is part of a project that we presented in his day when he ruled the lehendakari López. Therefore, it sounds very much to me, what happens is that the issue was very concrete and very determined. And I did say that as long as that consensus comes around the law of archives, as long as it does, we have to move forward. And you can move forward, because, in fact, I insist, in Gipuzkoa since 2014 has already moved forward, and it was Mr. Garitano, and we managed to start working on that common management. I want to say that the largest part of it does not stop managing the important thing, which is that these archives are available to citizens in the most optimal way. We'll meet again! I am aware that the Basque Government is talking to the outside parliaments about how to deal with this law of archives and how to design it, with the participation of Basque society. It's clear to me. I do not know when these advances can be seen through the presentation of the project, but I hope, and I share with you, that they will go that way. With regard to what could have been said something more, that while we were discussing the archival law we could have created a council, because the next time – understand it with affection – with an amendment we could have arranged it, because the proposal does not seem to me to be to be scorned. As long as that consensus is reached on the framework legislative agreement, a council can be established to allow for greater participation. I mean it. With Mrs Goirizelaia I also share that there has to be a national archival system, a common archival policy. And the rest you know, as far as this is a matter of state ownership and a matter of country, that EH Bildu has another model... I know EH Bildu has another model. The issue is to agree on a model in which we feel represented all the political forces and political traditions of this country. That is why I will not say that I am an outsider, Mr Barrio, nor will I say that I am a nationalist, but I do understand that within a common objective, in this particular initiative and in the future law of archives, we will have to do everything possible to ensure that all traditions (the outsider, the nationalist and the one that is not, as is mine) can fit and be in the best possible and most plural way, because only with those that are done in that way and with shared management of competences, which take into account all institutional and social actors, will guarantee the success of the norm itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u60	Thank you. Animar hasn't had much success, so we'll go back to the English house next time. In my initial speech I explained the reason why the transfer took a long time to come to Euskadi, and it is that we demand not only the transfer of the... ez Bakarrik kudeaketa, eskumena bera eskatu izan dugu. Because there is a legal framework that supports it, it is possible to do so, and, well, the fact that management has now been transferred does not mean the abandonment of any political strategy, but a positive step, as we work out the overall framework of our fit in the state with the elaboration of the new political status in this legislature. In any case, I propose to this House to focus efforts on the new archival law that the Government will adopt in this legislature, and let us say that it will formalize the framework of the archives in Euskadi. As for the location, outside or not, historically the provincial historical archives have been located near the notary schools, and that is why they are even physically close to them. In any case, I am not going to steal the debate from the future archive law, in which we will each propose what our model is, bearing in mind that the limits of the legal framework and its interpretation do not always depend or are not always in our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u61	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Together, Podemos, Mrs. García must not speak a word. And the high ground is... The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u62	Yes, thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Barrio, he always makes me come back here. As he answers me with his usual gifts, he makes me come back here to have to answer, when he had no intention. Look, you talk to me about Basque neocentricism, when what we're considering is being able to have what we have, what we have to do, decide about it and do what we think is appropriate in relation to it, from the People's Party, I'm not going to put you up to it, but just like you have a problem, not already of maturity, but of dyslexia, that you're in one place and another, that you don't know very well where you have your right hand... Well, that does know very well where she has it, what she doesn't know is where she has the left. I mean, a problem I can't fix from here. But I do ask you again to reflect on these things when you raise them. And ownership is very important, and I'll tell you why ownership is very important. Because I am going to give you an example that is perfectly understood, and that has to do with the roles of Salamanca, the famous roles of Salamanca, which have been turning around the world, which was agreed to be transferred, which was appealed, that the High Court of the Community of Madrid said that no... And in the end, some of that has come. In 2013, it had been handed over to the Basque Government. And you know where they are? In the hands of the Basque Nationalist Party, which has made some exposition and explained something to us. So, that's why the ownership of things is important, in order to do the right job that we're commissioned to do. There's no trouble either with the working people or with every department or with the historical territory, no. Even less, it makes everything easier, makes everything easier... That's why we plan it, and that's why what we think is the way, the one way and the only thing we have to do. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u63	Thank you, madam. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u64	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Eukalia, the general corrections which have been introduced by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the contrary, 28; white, 0; Abstations 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u65	So the full correction has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, concerning the transparency of the finances given to the euscal corporations. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Mr. Becerra, representing the Podemos group, has the word to present and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u66	Good morning, everyone. We come to this last item on the agenda to discuss the management of the financial instruments with which the Basque Government supports the development and modernisation of enterprises, encourages entrepreneurship and promotes innovation. Backgrounds like Luzaro, Ekarpen, Ezten, Basque, Socade, Lanpar, Ekintzaile are names that will sound to us all. What is the problem with these funds today? On the one hand, the lack of transparency, and, on the other hand, a management which is at least questionable. I'll give you an example, for starters. In January 2017 the Government announced the creation of a 250 million euro fund to guarantee the root of businesses in Basque, a public-private fund. A year later, in January 2018, he bought shares of the company CAF worth 15 million euros, using a hundred percent public capital and buying from a company like Kutxabank, with which he was a business capital that was already rooted. To return to the subject of this example, we ask the following questions: Who made the decision to buy these shares? What were they to buy criteria? Why is it used only public money, and not private? Why did they buy her shares in the chest, not cheaper in the stock market? There are no answers to these questions today. The only answers are opacity, secrecy, misinformation, arbitrariness, and a less deficient management of these funds. And behind these answers is the SPRI, the business development agency, the agency dedicated to granting this aid, which has actually become a dark window for companies, where you don't know what's going on and, worse, where you don't want to know either. And I'll explain all these answers. Opacity. SPRI entrusts the management of these funds to a company, the company SGEIC, of risk capital management of the Basque Country. Our group asked several questions about how this company manages these funds. We ask: are there public records of investment committees? There aren't. Are there procedures for the appointment of representatives of the Basque Government in the companies involved? There aren't. Are there internal protocols to transfer this information from business representatives to the Basque Government? There aren't. What happens in SPRI stays in SPRI. Secretism. We also asked the Government for thirty-six companies in crisis; we were expressly told that "since they are private companies, the information we share with them is not of a public nature, except that they lead to the application of some public support instrument". We then asked about the companies that had been the subject of aid under the Ekarpen programme, and then we were told that "information on the relationship of these companies is subject to the duty of secrecy established in the Capital Companies Act, so that the said information will be made public when it is decided jointly by the parties involved". Therefore, even when companies receive public support this information is not public. This is the hallmark of new governance. Today, it is easier to find the updated accounts of these funds on Google than on the website of the Basque Government. And bad is lack of information, but even worse is misinformation. And I'm going back to the CAF case. In the CAF it has been said that the famous fund, or the first part, or the first funds of that 250 million euro fund that has been promised have been used. It is not true: 40 million of the Basque Institute of Finance have been used, which came from the remaining income. It has also been said that it has been an opportunity to buy these shares. It's not true either. Even the press, anyone knows it's been done to improve Kutxabank's solvency ratio, not because it's interesting to the country. But let's go with the question of arbitrariness. If we look at the companies supported by the Ezten fund, which is 80% involved by the SPRI, we find that there are companies that receive support for their participations of 4%, and others of 40%, ten times more or ten times less, who knows because of what. But we also find, for example, some company based in Bayona, which, of course, I imagine, does not pay its taxes in Euskadi. We are also, oh surprise!, with which companies in difficulty have been supported, which we have also been told that it is not possible. Vicrila has been supported in her day, in 2012, by Alfa Lan, who is now in crisis again... It has supported companies in difficulty; however, we are told that this is not possible with others (with some yes, with others not). And I will end the issue of poor management. Only between 2013 and 2016, the six exclusively public funds managed by SPRI have lost 34 million euros (34 million euros), of which 21 million euros have been lost by the Ezten fund. The Ekarpen fund, where the Basque Government only participates in 48 % (51 is from Kutxabank), lost EUR 45 million with the question of Fagor and Cegasa, among others. Obviously, this makes us rethink the investment criteria that SGEIC handles to take shares in some companies yes and no. And we find that SGEIC, on its website establishes as one of the requirements that the management team be competent, committed and professional. Like Alfa Lan's, for example, which took two and a half million euros raw after selling part of the company. In short, therefore, we understand from our parliamentary group that we need to analyse the investment strategies that the Government is following, that we need to analyse the results that these funds are achieving. Not only the financial results, but also the results in terms of the effect on the economy, the effect on the consolidation of companies, real or non-real. Existing funds need to be restructured. We have a multiplicity of funds, where it seems that each administration can have its own, and so, for example, Ezten participates in 50% of a fund where Gipuzkoa's Deputy, who makes the decisions, and Ezten puts the money. We have, for example, to regulate the criteria for guiding investment committees in these funds, in order to increase objectivity and transparency. And I have to say here that this greater objectivity and transparency will go in favour of those who use these funds, which are the Basque companies. Not in favour of this parliamentary group, which asks the questions and if they are not answered, it has to make an application for amparo to the Bureau. The interest of objectivity and transparency is for Basque companies, for the Basque economy, not for this parliamentary group. Finally, it will be necessary to assess, which does not appear to be an obligation of this Government, the effectiveness of these instruments in achieving their objectives. In short, our party maintains that the foundations we have with this proposition ought to be examined, on the one hand, to measure their influence, and consequently to rearrange the foundations, and finally to regulate them in order to develop and strengthen our transparency. Euscala must certainly be useful to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u67	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The turn of the teams that are running for corrections, Mr. EH, Mr. Casanova, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u68	Hello. Good morning, everyone. In recent times, months, even if I dare say that two years, we have experienced a real ceremony of confusion about the Basque Government's plans and objectives in relation to public investment funds, or, more generically, about the instruments through which it wants to channel financial support and public investment into the business sphere. I believe that we, our group, are confused or confused in our group, but the media, public opinion and the very components of the economic and business fabric of this country are also confused. Because we have been..., or the government, rather, has been, saying that about two years talking or giving the same name to different things, and referring to the same thing with different names. And so no one is clear, to the point that a journalist from one of the most important media in this country said that an investment fund that had proposed the lehendakari in March 2016 had passed to better life and there had been no new news, when at the end of that year something very similar had been presented, which we assume is that, but with another name. But it was not an investment fund, but a way of financing and crediting businesses. And it's logical, everyone's confused, because the government itself is tumbling around and changing names and plans, and it's important to know what we're talking about. Today's discussion does not exhaust the subject. This group has introduced to the government an interpelation, because it is very important to receive the opinion of the Government directly around this subject, and we suppose that if there is no surprise at the scene, we shall discuss a motive also in the consequence of this emotico interpelation. But it is plain that the proposition is proper, and that it allows us to give an interesting and pertinent argument. Why? Now that at this moment we are exposed to the necessity of arranging a system of euscal funds and dangers, for several reasons: In order to strengthen the attachment to the land and country of the euppressians of Esscal, because we have lived for some time now the continual flight of the decrees of the troops. Perhaps, as to the numbers, it wasn't very bulky, but because the companies that have gone so important are of weight in our hundred producers and all of them are names like ITP, Games or Basques. Companies have kept themselves here partly, but they lose their decisions and get out of here. The second reason is that we're buried in the middle of a huge roll-out cycle of the Arkbanks. The trunk wants to sell for the year of 2019, half the wallet of its divised corporations, which is what supposes that it will be able to handle 1,500 million. This process is already in progress, and it is true that a portion of the capital can be stopped in the hands of the Basques and the bank treatments, but 1,500 million will be forfeited, and will be the largest derogation operation in history. And we have to respond to that. We have to reorganize the system of our funds and the risk card, because the divisional management has been very poor and very negative examples. In the first place, they were mentioned about the rentability, but they're all at the end of the business, where the company's presence of the Eusk0's, by the way, has not been able to guarantee that the management of the company has been followed and hasn't confirmed that the correct measures have been taken in this company, and when the symptoms of the serious situation had begun. And I used to say that there are also some of the SEI, CEL, ACB, Alpha, or other names in our mind. And the last reason is to start the reorganizing system of funds and risks, of course, the origin of the new fund. We don't know anything about it. We expect him to know more about it in the next few days. we do not yet know the character of this foundation, or the characterization of that essence in the Government design; but it is plain that a new foundation appears to be produced, a very important foundation, and the origin of this foundation, no doubt, will contain an incestivation throughout the whole system of funds and danger. So we must consider what is and consider what we need in the future. And any change begins with a very obvious movement, and it begins from the bullet of what has hitherto been done. And that's why, in our medium, we're asking you to make a diagnosis, critical diagnosis. This does not mean a negative diagnostic: it may be negative or not. We have to make a critical diagnosis of the activity of these funds up to now: What's right, what's wrong. In the first place, some of the data about the rentible has been mentioned. I've brought in a series of others, but we know that they are under the name "Socieda de gestion de capital riesgo," "Suppen, SIG Gipue, Lanpar, Basque and other funds." Then there are other elements: The rope, the contributor, the Instito Vasco de Finnanzas, and so on. All these must be examined, one by one, one by one, and a standard round them, a critical rating, and then, in view of the future, the whole system must be reorganized. It must be reorganized, in order to face the hinges I mentioned before, and well, we must appreciate what number we want to have, whether any of us are superfluous, or whether any of them are missing. We need to know the orientation of each fund, see if there's any fund for a special feature missing. We'll have to examine the funds and what investments they're going to lead to. I think there is a labour there, and I shall give an example: It's one of those funds at Langar. The function of this fund is perfect: working people's involvement in enterprises. But the practical function of this foundation is, unfortunately, very remote from its purposes, because it has only been used by two companies. So there's something wrong with the fund. It may be a good definition, it's a good idea, but there's no connection with the receiver or potential users. We're talking about things like this when we're talking about evaluation. And, of course, I think we ought to make a special allusion to the essence of serious words about that $250 million million dollars which has been discussed in the past few months. We think we have to start an instrument like that, but we require transparency, we demand clarity, we demand a conversation and we demand an agreement. We have remarked in the middle of the course that the purpose of not dealing with the necessity of this substance is not to be found. We think that public investment must be directed to capitalize in enterprises, and it is well for us to be able to strengthen our affections and make a more strict progress in the evolution of that company. We all agree. If we had to add something more ambition and more capital, as I was saying before, it would only take a lot more money to fill the void of the Arkbanks will allow. But apart from this quaantitarian criticism, we must make a quantum review of the procedure to put this fund to work: There have been changes, conflicting opinions, evolutional dynamics, which seem to be talking about something different every day. They lack transparency and clearness, and which is even more serious, from the point of view of what they want to set up this inclusous: Even those who ought to be assistants in the foundation of this foundation say that they themselves do not know what they ought to know, and that no one ought to go to them exactly what their participation should be. So we think there's a lot of things there to direct. And I say, and repeat: 'tis not the design of our party to circumscribe this project, but to encourage it, to do it right. And, for the first time, I am going to prolong this further, because together the spokesman of Podemos is rather focused on these points, but we think, as we ask in our middle course, that the committees which will make decisions around the use of public money must be transparent, that they must be independent, that they must be objective, and that they must establish a protocol and policy for that purpose, not only because we can rely on the good will of the people, but also because they can be written, and that this procedure fulfils all the conditions. And, moreover, it is to be grafted on the means of choosing the investments of these funds in regard to the character of certain investments which we mention in our middle-town, where to invest them, and to measure the impact of this investment, not only in economic terms, income, and incluso on the protection of the employment or company, but in other elements, as in more social, ecological, and so on. We are faced with the need to face an integral reorganization of the system of funds and venture capital companies of the Basque public institutions, to deal with the permanent flight of companies or at least of decision-making centres of companies, to also deal with the huge cycle of divestments in which Kutxabank is plunged, to correct the mistakes that have been made in the past in the management of the companies involved by the Basque Government, and to fit into that system of funds and venture capital companies the new macro-fund that the Government wants to launch. To do so, it is necessary to assess what has been done so far, to assess the level of achievement of its objectives for each of the funds, and to draw up a common path for defining what this system of funds should be in the future, speaking of its number, its orientation, its economic allocations, its duration, and also of the definition of its investment committees and also of its criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u69	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u70	Thank you, President. Egun on. Analyzed by the socialists the proposal of Elkarrekin Podemos, we have presented together with the Basque Nationalist group an amendment to the whole in which we urge the Basque Government to carry out three specific actions. First, to boost the financing of SMEs through Elkargi, Luzaro and the Basque Institute of Finance, optimizing the involvement of the European institutions in the development of these instruments. We also urge the Basque Government to structure the investment fund of 250 million so that it operates with an unequivocal industrial vocation, with the capacity for economic development and also with the will to generate employment. Thirdly, and not least, we call for the revision of financial instruments and aid programmes for industry, in collaboration with economic and social actors, in order to increase their effectiveness in consolidating present and future employment, guaranteeing credit to small and medium-sized enterprises and promoting productive investment in strategic and sustainable sectors. And we make this proposal on the basis of the following considerations. First, the 2017-2020 Industrialization Plan and the financing instruments raised in it were already the subject of debate in the Committee on Economic Development and Infrastructure last October, and there we agreed on some motions for resolutions that undoubtedly enriched that plan. And annually – it was put into that plan – it will be revised, and depending on the evaluations it will be modified or reoriented. And the Basque socialists believe that the mechanisms of transparency and publicity of public resources are already in place to attract investment and private capital, as well as the criteria that drive the application of funds and participation in companies with public capital and public-private capital. And in your presentation, Mr Becerra, you pointed out the diversity of funding instruments and programmes, as well as the different objectives that are sought through their implementation. That is to say, each programme, each fund has a destiny for a concrete impulse, for a concrete development, which therefore fulfils a particular function, or which has fulfilled it. And each of these funds has involved investments or holdings in companies that are still active today. The Basque Government itself, when presenting the purchase of 1.24% of the shares in CAF, has already pointed out that this public-private fund of 250 million euros that it aims to represent a new business strategy of acquisition of shares, whose objective is to guarantee the growth of the Basque economy and the root of Basque companies with technological potential and of internationalization. This fund, therefore, already presents in itself a reordering of the financial instruments of the Basque Government, which, with the aim of giving a clear back to the Basque industry, allows us to take the opportunity to enter healthy companies that have great international economic potential, in order to promote their growth and promote the root of the companies in a tractor and strategic way. This fund is undoubtedly a challenge; a challenge that seeks the attention of private investors with objectives different from other funds that already exist today, because in this case what is being pursued is, entering the capital of tractor companies, preventing them from falling into the hands of foreign capital and the decision-making centre being able to move out of the Basque Country. This first action has been implemented through Socade, on behalf of the Basque Institute of Finance, through the social fund, which in no case prejudges, and that is public, the definitive formula of instrumentation of the Basque Government's equity fund in the future, having committed the Basque Executive to define in this first quarter the financial instruments, in order to then undertake the transformations that are necessary in order to enable this much necessary impulse to the tractor companies of the Basque Country. And, in another matter, all funds are either directly managed by SGEIC, or they have signed advisory contracts with this company. And it is true that public-private funds and that the Capital Societies Act have certain information characteristics that restrict them (Mr Becerra has pointed out), but it is also true that the investment decisions of the Basque Government are transparent decisions, which are public, and that in the case of funds 100 per cent of public capital are also subject, let us say, to interventions, or at least control and monitoring, of the Basque Court of Accounts, and in all cases supervised by the National Securities Commission. And Elkarrekin We know that in the process of investment analysis companies are consulted on their policies related to corporate social responsibility, because this was answered by the Basque Government itself to a question you asked. You also know that the person representing the venture capital funds managed by SGEIC on the boards of directors or shareholders' boards of the participating companies is the investment analyst or analyst who has carried out the analysis of the investment project. You know that in some cases, taking into account circumstances such as the workload among investment analysts, or also depending on the relevance of the company, the representative may be the Director General, or the Director of Investments, or an investment analyst, or a different analyst from the one who carried out the first analysis. You also know, because this was answered in writing, that the representatives of SGEIC on the boards of directors of the participating companies always act for the benefit of the participating company, always fulfilling the legal obligations of diligent administration, loyalty and loyalty. On the shareholders' boards, the venture capital management representatives of the Basque Country act in defense of the interests of the venture capital funds managed by SGEIC, and you know that too, because they were also answered in writing. You know that the representatives of SGEIC in the participating companies have direct and constant communication with the management bodies of the company; that meetings are held on a regular basis between all the persons involved in the monitoring and control of the participating companies, in which the most relevant facts that the participating companies may have are shared, and that guidelines for their action are laid down, if necessary. You also know that regular meetings are held between the general management of SGEIC, SPRI and senior officials of the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure, dealing with relevant matters or special situations of companies involved in the funds managed by society. Elkarrekin Podemos is aware, through the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure, of the existence, dated 14 September 2017, of 107 companies participated by the different entities of the Basque Government through public or public-private venture capital funds managed by SGEIC. You are also aware of the venture capital funds to which the participation is associated, you know the municipality of the participating company, the percentage of the participation taken, the date of taking the participation, the main criteria adopted for taking the participation, the average annual profitability of the participation, the remuneration and the dividend. You know that six companies are participating in the Ekintzaile fund, that 44 are participating in Basque, that 45 with Ezten, that one with Lanpar 2013, that one with Lanpar 2014, eight with SEED Gipuzkoa, and two with Sustapen. You also know that the criteria adopted for taking part have been the promotion of entrepreneurship and the financial-social profitability of the project, or also the consolidation of the business fabric. And you know, for each company, what criterion has been devised for their participation. You also know, from Elkarrekin Podemos, the results of the funds from 2013 to 2016 in terms of the relationship of property losses. They are aware of the investments made by the funds during the financial year 2013 to 2016, i.e. the annual volume of capital devoted to the taking of contributions and the annual volume of capital contributed by participants during the same period. Therefore, we do not see the lack of transparency, nor the lack of knowledge or misinformation that you were talking about, Mr Becerra, about these funds, about how the investment committees have operated, about what the contribution decisions have been..., so we do not think it necessary to introduce any variable, for the time being, as regards the regulation of the composition and functioning of these investment committees that evaluate the applications received by the funds and venture capital companies. And I say this because you, in your speech and in the written presentation of your initiative, talk about risks, that it is in no way clear, that the existing legal regulation has determined rules of play that are unknown. Well, we don't see it that way. We don't see, we don't talk about inconveniences or risks. And, with regard to the unification of the criteria for granting aid provided for in the 2017-2020 Industrialization Plan, economic and financial tools are evaluated every year, and improvements are made that are also visible through the public calls that are made, and these calls are being modified to the extent that revisions are necessary. The Industrialization Plan clearly shows that in the financing instruments that are made available to the industry, in this period of 2017-2020 in this case, there are different purposes, there are also different types of aid, who are responsible, the main use of these funds, and the strategy that is ultimately intended. And, in our view, there is no problem of unity of approach in the application of funds. The most important thing, in our view, is that the implementation of these funds is effective, that it is effective in industrial policy for economic growth and for the consolidation of decent and quality employment. If this is not achieved, the situation will be reviewed and the programme and funding instruments will be amended, which are also envisaged in the development of the plan itself. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u72	Madame de Table, chief of departments, fellow members of the legislature, good evenings to all. We discussed the industrial plan in October, and we accepted several resolutions. I think it was a plan agreed with a fairly large consent; for at last we accepted several proposals from EH Collector and Podemos, and divided them in another half. Well, I thought that discussion was over, but no. The object of this LBP is to repeat this argument, not as a whole, but as a whole in its partialness, as well as in its essence. And before we begin to penetrate further into the subject, let us review something about these funds: Generally speaking, financial instruments are fundamental tools for the development and implementation of a country's public development policies, and their orientations and objectives are determined by different government plans. There are basically two large blocks of these instruments: those which take public aid into account, which are generally a supporter of the incentive policy and which respond to the trend recently promoted by the European Union to replace subsidies without losing the incentive effect (here could be the Gauzatu or Bideratu programmes); and the other block are market instruments, whose aim is to boost or complement the financial sector in the sense of public policies that are being established at all times and that are in no way considered public aid. Here we have several typologies. Some may be managed through agreements signed with all financial institutions, or with Elkargi, or the same agreement signed with Luzaro for participative credits. That is our first point in our amendment to the GNP, calling for these instruments to support SMEs. The management in this case is carried out by the governing bodies of each of the financial institutions, and the public monitoring is done by the guardianship of the Department of Economy and Finance. They are all governed by private criteria in their decision-making, and are subject to the control of the Banco de España and the CNMV. Then there are those I think are of interest today, in today's debate. It is the public financing, market instruments, in which the venture capital society, which manages different, quite a lot of public or public-private investment funds, which align with industrial policy. The governing bodies are clearly determined in this case in terms of criteria, procedure, constitution and responsibility, and, as a public institution, they are also subject to controls and audits by the Basque Court of Public Accounts, and all their actions are public. In fine, we have public investments in the private funds of the industrial division, the ends are lined up with the proper ends of the political industry. This is an example of MCC suspent or contribution. CNMV sees those companies too. All this set of tools is multiple and complex. Each of them has its own mission, their ends are known, and those managed by the social society of danger know where and how to place their funds. Well, after the didactics, I repeat that the debate is so repetitive that the first proposal of this GNP, the initial one that you presented, Mr Becerra, coincides with the motion for a resolution 4 of Podemos in the debate on the Industrialization Plan, and the third was a travesty of the 7 that you presented in that debate. They also presented another, on the 3rd, which we negotiated and curiously in the debate was adopted unanimously. Therefore, in order not to run away from the debate that you proposed, which was a repetition of that, we have brought it and put it in our amendment. That means that, if we adopt it in October, unanimity will logically have to adopt it again in February, because it is exactly the same text. Well, the same thing we brought her, for the same reason it would be assumed that hers will be rejected, but as she has transacted and turned her into something else, as perfect. In any case, we also ask that this fund be structured. You already seem to back off what you said at the time. Well, in any case, let us remember that this 250 million euro fund is defined with objective in the Industrialization Plan: it is defined as public-private, and it says that it is to guarantee the growth and the roots of Basque companies with technological potential and presence in the global markets. I mean, it's not generic, it has a goal. I have already explained to you the variety of funds that apply to support the investments of Basque companies: public, private, mixed, dedicated to entrepreneurship, generalists... I mean, every fund has its sense of being. If you have defined a fund, which has certain features and a purpose, to which the majority of the legislature has confirmed it at the 16th of October, and besides, if that fund has not made equal among the existing foundations, it seems logical to continue to protect its origin. What do we gain because, for example, its objectives and future composition are welcomed within the next one to disappear fund Sustapen, or Ezten? Subsuming it in other funds is confusing, is passing money to funds with other goals and other philosophies. I don't know, it's like merging... , "we're going to merge SPRI and Lanbide, because the two have a major goal that is to improve the country." Well, it's not going to happen! In the transaction they change, but what they ask in the transaction... then we'll talk about it. Then we'll talk about it. As for the composition and functioning of the investment committee of each fund – and I mean, logically, those managed by the Basque Country Risk Capital Society, with a public majority – I refer you directly to the company's website. It is public, the website; you can enter from Google, but you can enter directly, putting "Euskadi Risk Capital Society". Here you will see the composition of the board of directors, the executive commissions delegated to the investment committees of each fund, which in all cases are formed by the members of the board, in addition to a very complete code of ethics and good governance. In order to continue to be objective, public, and transparent, it is necessary to know them, and to know the criteria used by them, they are the criteria of the substance, which are also known; but besides all this, what more do you want of all the operations of this society, if it judges and informs them of the Basque Court of Accounts? Look, I'm not going to repeat everything you already know, because Mrs. Corcuera has listed all the questions and requests for information that you've answered, plus what you've told here. If we start from what you said at first (which is all opaque, hidden...), that to me at first gave the feeling that we were in the cave of Mordor, then, man, it is much more transparent than it seems, because you really know a lot, not only by what you look at, by what you listen to, but by what you ask and answer them, and by what is on the website. Finally, the unification of the criteria for granting the aid provided for in the Industrialization Plan seems, in itself, to be contrary to the plan itself. If this, the plan, has multiple objectives, for which it designs different instruments (subsidies, investment, varied support), it does not seem most logical, to address the range of purposes, to unify all instruments. I do not know, the aid to intensify the investment attraction of the job-creating outside, through Invest, sure that it handles criteria, and it is logical that it handles criteria of prioritization different from those of the Innobideak initiative, for capacities of non-technological innovation. With regard to the advertising of these criteria, the subsidy programmes are, without a doubt, and you know it. How can you say that you are asking the Government to make public the criteria for the aid provided for in the plan, if they are public aid, derived from decrees which are also publicly informed by this Parliament itself, which informs these decrees if it wishes, and which contain all the requirements for access to the aid and the scores which are granted according to the objectives which are intended to be achieved? Another thing is to evaluate aspects that you suggest. But, look, if you read the plan carefully, you will see that on page 46 – I am saying this for a post-it signal – your strategic objectives are defined, that they are no more than reducing unemployment below 10%, reaching 125% of EU GDP per capita, reducing the poverty rate by 20%, and that industry reaches 25% of Basque GDP. Among others, there's more. And if there is little, on page 64 a method of monitoring and evaluating the plan is established, with annual reports being drawn up in order to assess its progress against the objectives envisaged, and not against any other that is intended to be added without having discussed it previously in the process of drawing up the plan. In other words, each project must be assessed on the basis of its contribution to the objectives set out in the plan (employment, GDP, poverty rate, etc.), and logically it must also comply with the rules in force in this area (tax, labour and environmental). To try to add new values to be considered in the prioritisation of projects after the master plan discussion would be a fraud, an overall modification of the Industrialization Plan. By the way, your proposal in the GNP is, I have already told you, a retaliatory of that motion for a resolution 7 of the Industrialization Plan, but it adds to its environmental value, which it did not do at the time. Do you remember that the debate on the Industrialization Plan was held on 16 October? Do you know when you presented this GNP? October 20th, four days later. In four days, he returned to the attack. You can change...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u73	You go to the end, Mr. Tellería...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u74	Yeah, hold on. You can change your amendments between 16 and 20 October if you wish, but do not attempt to change, through a GNP, the objectives of a plan which was the subject of a monographic debate and a majority vote by this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u75	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The team that hasn't announced any correction, the Basque Popular, Lord Damborena, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. We did not make an amendment, because we had already discussed the proposal three months ago in the Industry Plan. We had discussed it and voted on it; therefore, we understood that an amendment was not necessary. In any case, I will tell you that it is at least contradictory what you are doing and what you are proposing. You have proposed (or were proposing, because I no longer know what you are proposing or were proposing) that the 250 million fund is not being created (that is what you were proposing, even in this initiative that you have brought us today), because you said that it should be subsumed with the other funds that already exist provided for in the Industry Plan, and that you have brought it to us today. And then you sign a transaction that says you have to find an agreement to create that plan. I mean, you go on to say that you don't have to create the plan, that you have to create the plan (that I don't agree with what you raise about how you have to create it, and I'm going to try to explain it), to end by saying that you don't have to create the plan. Because in point 4, when he says that the Government is urged to unify and make public the criteria for granting aid under the Industrial Plan, we return to the same initial: if the criteria are to be unified, we have to have only one fund, because, of course, for the same criteria, there is no need for more than one fund. Plantes that it is not believed, then poses that it is believed, to end up posing that it is not believed. And I come a moment when I'm lost. And I understand that criticism of the government – which I too am going to criticize a little, is not created you –, man, has its limits. I'm the liberal, you're supposed to be the one on the left; you're supposed to stand up to the Basque government to help companies in crisis... so shut it down and let's go. Because that's what you've done here: "The Basque government was telling us that you couldn't support companies in crisis, and you've supported companies in crisis." What do you want me to say to him? Or that you tell me about the profitability of public investment funds... so turn it off and let's go. I do not know if you are confusing the investment funds that you call vulture funds, which are pension funds that require a profitability of between 13 and 17 % to obtain profits from your investments, with which it is a public fund, in which in no case is it proposed to obtain profits. But it is you who have criticized "It is that money has been lost in this fund and in this fund". We're talking about public funds! And I repeat that I am the liberal, but, of course, it is one thing to be liberal and another to be a bit silly, as it seems that some people are thinking that we have to be in this life, when we and all of us are seeing how all countries help their companies, and even make instruments to control the capital of those companies or the social domicile of those companies. So, I'm telling you, we don't agree. Secondly, I do not agree at all with the fact that in order to create that fund, the Basque Government must reach an agreement with the socio-economic, design and legal characterization agents of that fund, and I will explain why. First, because socio-economic agents may have conflicting interests. And I will explain myself: it can be contrasted with that of the entrepreneurs who want to sell the companies and that of the Basque Government, that at best what they want is to retain capital here, and there can be conflicting interests with the unions, that at best they want something else for those companies, what examples we have of everything in this life. And when we are talking about a public-private fund, but in the end, to have greater control of Basque companies, so that they continue in the Basque Country, it does not seem most reasonable to reach previous agreements to create that fund with those who, to a greater or lesser extent, are responsible for creating it, who are the socio-economic agents. And I'm not going to extend much longer, because there is something else, Mrs. Corcuera... Finally, the purchase of shares from the Basque Government to Kutxabank (not to the CAF: to Kutxabank), for the sake of that famous fund than to us in this Parliament, when we asked the councilwoman, when she brought the budget, when it was going to be created, told us that for 2019, and we are talking about November 2017, two months ago, and we find ourselves overnight with the Basque Government buying shares from that company's Kutxabank one month later and saying that it is with this fund that you yourselves recognise in point 2 of your transaction (which I am going to vote for, because I agree that the fund is being created) that, if the fund is to be created, it has not been charged to that fund with what those shares from Kutxabank have been bought, not even with the criteria we agreed in the Industry Plan. It will be on the basis of the criteria decided by the Basque Government. And neither is it to strengthen capital, let's say, public in a very important company in the Basque Country, because what the Basque Government is doing is replacing Kutxabank, which, well, if you want to say it's a private company, but you'll all believe it, right? Because if at this point in the film we're saying that Kutxabank is a private company, when one hundred percent of the capital belongs to the foundations we all know, then we'll be cheating in solitary. And if when we were talking about that public-private fund being created with mixed capital, public and private, it was understood that within that private one of the important ones would be Kutxabank. Or are we going to create the fund to replace Kutxabank? I hope not, that is not the purpose of this fund, or that Kutxabank will have more liquidity now that we have had the surplus we have had at the end of this year. We understand that the money of the Basque Government and the Basques is better earmarked for other functions. And that is why we are going to vote in favour of the government's compromise amendment, and I have to say that in the Industry Plan... Because here, when it comes to evaluation, it is that in the Industry Plan we already raise the question of the evaluation of financial instruments, it is already planned, which is the only thing that could be important or relevant in the transactional that you have signed. But that is already planned, we have already agreed in the Industry Plan; therefore, it makes no sense to repeat it again. Now, if Bildu's representative has an inquiry and then a motion, I guess we'll talk about the same thing again in a month.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u77	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the answers, the representative of Podemos, Mr. Becerra, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u78	Well, I think you're trying to confuse the debate deliberately to get away from focusing on the issue that really matters. Of course, at the time we discussed the Industrialization Plan, and of course these financial instruments have a role in the Industrialization Plan. They also have it in the field of internationalisation, R & D, innovation..., in many. They are government financial instruments, generic, not just for industry. So, evaluating the Industrialization Plan is one thing, and evaluating the outcome of these funds is another different. Why do we want to assess the effectiveness of these funds? To see if we need more funds or not. At no point in our initial proposal was it said that we did not want the 250 million fund; what we did explicitly is to urge the Government to streamline the existing fund structure, so that the existing funds can assume the functions and objectives set out in this new fund that has been raised. It is not said at any time that the fund is not wanted, but that its need and coordination with existing funds are assessed. Because right now we have a plethora of funds, where, for example, we have the Ezten fund, which participates 50% in the SEED Gipuzkoa fund, which has the same functions. What happens is that Gipuzkoa has wanted his own Txokito, to decide the Gipuzkoa Deputy in his own Txokito to whom he supports and to whom he does not. And it is the same fund, participated in 50% by Ezten and in the other 50% by the Gipuzkoa Parliament. Therefore, not all the funds we have, not all the funds we have are necessarily the ones we should have. And now a new fund of EUR 250 million is being proposed, and Mrs Corcuera tells us that she is going to have a new orientation, and Mr Telleria tells us that she is going to have a goal. Which one? It has been said: the root of companies. That's someone else's already got it, too! But the first thing you've done is buy the shares of CAF, and then we'll set up the fund. We have provisionally done it through Socade, but well, this can change anyway. I mean, you first buy the shares, and then you set it up. Well, it doesn't seem very serious really. It does not seem very serious from the point of view of business management. There's a fund now, Ekarpen. It is public-private, mostly from Kutxabank. This Ekarpen fund proposes investments of between 10 and 40 million euros (equivalent to that which has been made in the CAF) in capital increases or participative loans, and in beneficiary companies having a tractor character, such as the CAF, in strategic innovative sectors, such as the CAF, and with growth potential, such as the CAF. Why haven't the shares been bought through Ekarpen? It wasn't necessary, because they were already in Kutxabank's hands. If the government wants to secure the root of all the industrial stakes in Kutxabank, it will buy Ekarpen's stake, and the problem is over. What are you playing at? What are you playing at? You really need to create that fund, but maybe you don't. And the only thing we say in our transactional is that we study, and that we also analyze that with socio-economic agents who have something to say on this issue. You say that the criteria for decision-making are transparent. Well, in the case of Ekarpen, if we have not even come to know which companies are supported, then to know the criteria of decision we are wrong. We have known the companies that are supported by the annual accounts that are published, and we have had to make two amparo resources to the Bureau for the Department of Economic Development to give us the information that you say has so happily given us. And we are in the process of filing another third application for amparo, because it does not give us the information we ask for. Therefore, occultism exists. Occultism exists. Finally, I had to tell Mr Damborenea that I did not talk about financial profitability. I can distinguish perfectly the financial profitability of a fund – and I have not talked about financial profitability – from the profitability for the business and economic fabric, which is what we usually call social profitability on the left. Of course you have to support companies in difficulty, and of course there will be funds that have to lose money, and that I do not question. On the contrary, I do understand; unlike the spokesman of the Nationalist Group, who at the time said that if there were companies that went wrong, then they would have to be dropped. Well, no. Perhaps we should invest money and lose money in these companies, because social or industrial profitability is precisely the loss of money in these companies. I don't question it. What I am questioning is the lack of transparency in deciding that, and that the adviser tells us that you cannot invest in firms in difficulty when it is actually being done. And yet he refuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u79	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u80	I'm out of my mind. I would ask that we not be set up in the debates. On the one hand, the Industrialization Plan was approved at the time, and this group stood against it. This group does not feel identified with this plan, because it seems insufficient for many reasons that we have at the time. We may be in favour of or against the plan, but what we cannot pretend is that, because an industrialization plan has been approved and discussed in this House, from now on we cannot come up with any kind of proposals that relate to the industrial model, because then we would be mutilating the debate and the capacity of this House to discuss and oppose proposals. Our group has always been in favour of setting up a fund for investment and participation in strategic companies. And since our group EH Bildu has a relatively short life, since 2012 that first appeared in elections, we can say that always. Since we submitted to the first programme we have already brought the proposal to set up a fund, and in 2016 we have also brought a proposal to set up a fund. We weren't especially original, either. That has been discussed many times. Even in this House in 2014, the debate on the Industrialisation Plan (not the last, but the previous) has already adopted a resolution calling for an investment fund in industrial enterprises. Then the Basque Nationalist Party picked it up on its program, it's in the government agreement... If the problem is not that we are against or in favour of the fund. We're in favour. The problem is whether this fund is materialized once and for all, and under what conditions and in what terms this fund is materialized. Because this is a mutant background in the mouth of the different spokesmen of the Basque Government, and we want once and for all to know what is offered. Then we will be in favour of or against the characteristics, the legal consideration..., because it is not the same as a public-private fund or a private-public fund, as it seems that in the end it will be, in which obviously the private is more important than the public, that it is not the same as a sovereign fund, or that a fund, let's say, controlled fundamentally from the public sphere. Therefore, do not make any twisted readings also about what is proposed in this transactional, that at no time is questioned the existence of the fund itself, but simply asks that it be defined, and not that an agreement be reached with the socio-economic agents: that the agreement be sought. Because reaching agreements cannot be demanded, because it is not in the hands of the Government. The government can be required to look for them. And to look for them you have to make a proposal, you have to report, you have to listen to the counterproposal, you have to dialogue... And then you can come to an agreement or not, or you can come to an agreement with some socio-economic agents and not others, but it's that if you don't start the process, if you don't make an offer, if you don't expose yourselves to agents and society what you want to do, because we're hardly going to start. And yourself, Mr.Damborenea, said that in November 2017 the fund was for 2019, and now they tell us that in the first four months. I mean, the mutation is permanent, as far as the essence is concerned, as far as the times are concerned... The only thing that seems to remain stable is economic endowment; we'll see if we don't find any surprises. And obviously the emergence of such a fund, which is called upon to play a central role in this whole system of venture capital funds and companies, will affect the rest. It's going to affect the rest! Because the funds are funds that have specific characteristics, and some of them have some very similar to what we think this fund can have. And so what we are asking is for an assessment to be made of the whole ecosystem of funds and venture capital companies, because they will obviously be altered, first by this fund, and then, as we said, by a number of underlying fundamental trends, which really force us to modernise and assess whether we are responding adequately to the changing reality of our economy and to realities, as I said before, of the loss of decision-making centres or of divestments by Kutxabank. And we understand that, for example, if we go to the funds managed by SGEIC we find a Lanpar fund that doesn't work, or doesn't work well enough, as I said before; with a Sustapen fund that disappears in 2018; with a SEED Gipuzkoa that is a little anomaly, because it has a territorial character; with funds that can't help companies in crisis but help them – and I join Mr Becerra's thesis, in the sense that we are in favor; then another thing is that you say that you can't and then you're doing it–; then there are some that can invest in companies that aren't on the market... Are we going to create a new instrument to invest in the companies that are on the stock market? Some invest in technologies, others in development phases, others in mature societies... That is, we will analyse whether we have the right instruments, how the existing ones have worked, how the new one will be characterized, and how the new one will impact the whole ecosystem. I don't think we're asking for anything that pre-conditions that the choice or final design goes in one direction or another. What we are asking for is something related to the forms: that an integral design be made, and that it be done through a dialogue and in a transparent way with all the social actors. But, of course, what is clear is that we are in favour of a fund. A permanent fund, because many of these funds also have a date of entry and departure in companies. A fund with a permanence vocation and a fund with a vocation to settle the roots of the industrial enterprises of this country. And a fund that we also believe should be mostly public in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u81	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u82	Yes, thank you. As Mr Casanova said, the important thing for the Basque Socialists is not so much to rationalise the structure of the funds and societies in which the Government participates as the regular review of the financing instruments, to make them more effective in the competitive improvement of Basque companies and always seeking the efficiency of new investments, of investments in R & D, to generate growth, to generate employment, also long-term investments, and for those strategic projects and tractors that we want to take root in Euskadi. The current funds and societies remain active, and those in which the money is being recovered are going and will disappear, as is the case with Sustapen, which has already been mentioned here that it will be settled in April of the same year. Industrial investment must continue to grow so as not to lose opportunities for improvement in industrial policy, and that is why the tools are evaluated and analysed every year, and for this reason also changes the calls, as I pointed out in my first intervention. Investment funds for industrial participations are increasingly needed, because they respond to the guidelines, the lines of action and the industrial policy programmes that we are adopting for each period, and because it is also necessary to participate in those companies that want to grow and that may be at risk of relocation, and which then require the intervention of the Administration. And, among the main conclusions of the evaluation of the Industrialization Plan 2014-2016, for socialists one of them has to do with the economic issue, and it seems to me that it is also important to highlight it. And it says: "As particularly noteworthy actions of the twenty lines of action planned for development are: the simplification and impetus of the Gauzatu programme to support the financing of SME investments; the development of the AFI programme, financial support for SMEs; the launch and development of the Lanpar fund; the development of the Ekarpen programme, as a tool for temporary participation in the capital of strategic enterprises in the country". Therefore, the financing of industrial policy is a key element for the Basque industry, and hence its continuity must be assessed, designed, revised and modified according to the needs of the Basque industry itself. And, therefore, before the proposal made by Elkarrekin We can, with regard to that summary in "possible risks" or "possible conveniences", and in anticipation of the fact that we do not know very well what, to the Basque Socialists, it seems much more important, much more interesting, to highlight and value, with regard to these financing instruments, that financing for SMEs is enhanced; that the optimization and effectiveness of other public administrations involved, such as the European institutions; that, with regard to this 250 million investment fund, this is structured and designed to be operational in the industrial sector; that it can have a sufficient attraction in economic development and employment generation... And that is why we also propose that these aid programmes, these financial instruments of that industrial policy, with the social partners and with the economic actors, be reviewed, primarily because there is a clear objective, and that we be effective, that these funds, those aids be effective, in that consolidation and in the increase of decent and quality employment in the industrial sector, and that they also guarantee credit to SMEs, promoting productive investment in strategic and sustainable sectors, which are ultimately the sectors of the future for the Basque industry and for Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u84	Good noon, everyone. Don't tell me I'm falsifying the debate. The origin of Mr Becerra's GNP has three proposals, on 20 October, which are three of the proposals which were not approved in the Industrialization Plan. Then it is a repetition of the industrialization plan, at the origin of the proposal, and therefore I work with it from that perspective. And all I'm saying is, a plan that's been sent, made public, debated by people... which you have wanted, have issued reports, have dedicated a monograph in Parliament with motions for resolutions, and are we going to come with a GNP, because I have not been approved of this, and I would like to repeat it again? Well, not that way. Not that way. And I didn't make it up as a repeat of the plan. It was said by the person who proposed the GNP. Another thing is that in the transaction, man, they have given him a turnaround and perhaps something has softened, but, nevertheless, they have again fallen into it, because the first proposal of their transaction ("Parliament urges the Government to carry out and submit an assessment of the activity of the funds") is exactly the resolution proposal adopted number 5, which is even more complete, because it says: "Parliament urges the Government to review the financial instruments and programmes of aid to the industries, in collaboration with economic and social actors". You have forgotten about those agents, and we in the plan have already said so, and it is adopted unanimously. In other words, even the transaction is a repetition of that debate. Okay. Well, let's get on with it. As Mr Damborenea has said, tomorrow there is an inquiry, Tuesday there is an appearance of the Sailburu, we will have a motion, you will continue to say one thing, and we ourselves. That's how we're going to be tangled up all February! Well! Well, that perspective does. Let us see if we are able to convince each other a little bit of progress in this debate on the funds. Because it says, "It's all very confusing." I've told you before, it looked like Mordor's cave, but then you know everything. But there are plenty of funds, but you know what everyone is dedicated to: this is public, this is public-private, this is for entrepreneurship, this is for mature companies... Ekarpen, do you know why you don't get into CAF, Mr. Becerra? You know that, but you shut him up. Ekarpen cannot enter listed companies, and you know it. You tell half truths. Have you said, for example, that the nationalist spokesman said in what debate companies, that they fall? Did I? Are you sure? Or did you get it out of context? I invite you to bring that phrase into the next debate, which we will soon have, and I will be willing to acknowledge it, but in the full context in which I was able to say it. Because you said that Ekarpen didn't go into what... but you know why he didn't go in, and you forgot the second part of the sentence. That's manipulating information. And then, you know so much... They know that Lanpar is for anonymous labor societies, and they know there are only two. And why are there only two? Because surely there is no other working society that wants to enter that capacity. Nor have any funds entered companies in crisis. They have entered companies that have then entered into crisis. It's very different! It's very different! It is just that, Mr Becerra, you come and say things for real; do not become a politician so quickly to the old habit. [[Barres]] Let's see, be of the new style of politics that you both advocate; say things as they are, don't say bits of things. Because, it's true, you're manipulating things. You're manipulating things, you're telling half the truths. But, well, in any case, you have practically repeated the Industrialization Plan again, and the Industrialization Plan is approved. And the same thing they say, "No, it's that the aid and the funds are for other things," but you here ask, in your transaction, that the criteria for aid set out in the Industrialization Plan be made public, not in all the plans of the Department of Industry. I mean, they keep insisting on it. If you want, let's get out of there. When we definitively approve the Industrialization Plan and start working on other things, there they will see us working on other things. The Industrialization Plan was adopted on 16 October by a parliamentary majority, and that is where we stand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u85	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. And finally, Monsieur Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u86	Mr. Becerra, you're telling us that what you're asking is to assess the need for the plan, and you know that's not true. You haven't asked it to be evaluated, ever. Never. What you are asking for was that it is not believed, and that the existing funds subsume the functions that it was going to have, and in the amendment that they raise exactly the same thing. And when it is said that the criteria for granting aid under the Industrialization Plan are the same for all plans, it is said that there is only one plan, because there cannot be differentiated plans. And everything else... anyway, whatever you want. It tells us that, of course, you do now... You don't think it's bad for a fund to lose money, but the one who's been talking about the fund's money losses was you. You, as a critic. Not because he did not fulfil the socio-economic functions entrusted to him, but because he lost money, he did not enter the second phase. That is the criticism that you have made, and I have told you that, in the end, I was missing, coming from you, to make that criticism. And, man, Mr Casanova, in three months we are not going to change the view of what we voted for three months ago in the Industry Plan, because in three months we are going to keep thinking the same thing, and we are going to wait a year for the first assessment to be made. And I also don't know why some are surprised that any of the funds are missing. If the evaluation is done and one of the funds is seen to have failed to meet the intended objectives, then the logical thing is to remove it, or change it, or modify it, or perhaps unify it with other funds, but that's what we're for. And finally, let's see, about aid to companies in crisis... It's just that the councilwoman and the government and everyone tells them that it's illegal, and that it can't be done. And you can't. But you're in favor, aren't you? Then don't criticize him! [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u87	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together for the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters 30; the opponents are 45; the white ones are 0,0; abstentions are 0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u88	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and Basque Socialists, who have signed it, or for the full correction of the whole set. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the pros, 46; the contrary, 11. White, 0; Abstations, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-01.u89	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-six.
