ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, " concerning the parental powers which the Euncier of the People, the Euscripts of the People, and the Prescriptions of the Government and Autobernus, is the work of the Public and Autogobernus." Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of staff, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Erkoreka jauna, two weeks ago in this Parliament we had a debate on the wage gap between men and women. There are many factors that determine the existence of this discrimination, but today I wanted to look especially at one of them, the penalization that we women suffer when we are mothers. Zalantzarik gabe, semi-alabak zaintzea eta wool harmonizes lehen milako errornka da guztiontzat. Thus, we know that public administrations are taking steps in this direction to achieve a twofold objective: first, to promote the reconciliation of work and family life, and, secondly, to promote greater gender equality. These measures include parental leave, and on this, Mr. Counsellor, we want to ask you again today, in line with what we asked you here just a year ago today. Also, a week ago, in his parliamentary appearance to present the Strategic Plan for Governance and Public Innovation 2020, I heard him that one of the concrete measures that will include the preliminary draft Basque public employment law that his department is developing is these paternal permits. As for that, chief physician, we would like to ask you today, what parental consents the prejugations of public employment will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. Madame Laruri, the necessity of changing the rules of permissions attached to parenthood rests on a solid and clear reason. This is the reason: that the system of coliations which are now in use have very remarkable imperfections, and that they have a remarkable defect. In two words, they do not succeed in securing the equality of men and women, and they do not succeed in getting the responsibility of the family to share in the two. They ought to be the principal goals, and they do not succeed in either of them. I'll give you a data that shows all this in an obvious way. Ninety percent of the parental licenses are taken today, and from that point on, all the privileges related to children and children's education and care are taken by women in 90%. Reality is right there. I will tell you more, there are special advantages planned to increase the rights relating to fatherhood in the law. But even if this is the case, 10%, most of the time, take these chances. It is clear, then, that there is something to be done in this photograph. It is clear, therefore, that something must be done to reverse this situation, to take measures that are in some way already suggested, even formulated, both in the Basque Government's Equality Plan for Men and Women, promoted by Emakunde, and in the specific plan of the General Administration and of the autonomous bodies which the Executive approved in the past legislature in relation to this matter. I am talking about a system of parental leave that meets the requirements that the most authoritative voices in this area consider indispensable for it to achieve its intended objectives. Three requirements which are, first, that have exactly the same duration for the two persons who make up the couple, regardless of their gender; secondly, that they are non-transferable, that they are not transferable between the persons belonging to the couple, and, thirdly, that they are paid 100 per cent. It is an ambitious approach, a very demanding approach for the public administration. We assume it and are aware of it. In fact, such a system is not yet in place in a single autonomous community of the State or, of course, in the general civil service system. To see it in force, we must look to the north, to the most advanced countries in this area. But only with such a system will the public administration make it possible to advance the effective equality of men and women, and, above all, also to promote co-responsibility between men and women in the care of minors, as well as to ensure the right of minors to receive care and care from the two persons belonging to the couple. The measure is indeed incorporated, as you have pointed out, in the draft draft of the draft public employment law which will shortly (within a few months) be referred to the House for discussion by the members of the House. Because this is a measure that constitutes a great step forward, and it is good that it is reflected in a rule with the highest rank, in a rule with a rank of law, and that it has previously been the subject of a debate with all the extent, with all the breadth that requires such a measure, which can even be model for the private sector, by the representation of the citizenry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the United States of the House of Investigators have been made to the president about the cares of work and preparation." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u5	Good morning, everyone. We usually use the adjective of pharaonics to refer to certain works that are considered to be disproportionate, ostentatious, too expensive, and more aimed at meeting the promotional, propaganda or auto-bomb needs of the person in charge than to respond to the real needs of the citizenry. But there is one aspect of Pharaohic works that goes unnoticed, which may not be known to the general public, and is that works in ancient Egypt were done by free workers. In our collective imagination is the image of slaves, building pyramids under the whip to death, but that was not so. The most modern Egyptology tells us that they were well-treated, well-paid, well-fed and well-stocked workers. And I have a doubt. And it is that, taking into account these circumstances of the pyramid builders and taking into account that it has been a long time (actually, more than 4,000 years), but taking into account the historical changes, the pyramids of Egypt were built in better working circumstances than the stadium of San Mamés. The pyramid of Guiza was built in better conditions than in which the stadium of Anoeta is being built. And, of course, that seems rather worrying to me, that Pharaoh was a better pattern than the lehendakari. The conditions which are now in public work are truly inferior. And there's a clear answer for it: the government. This problem, the ill-conditioned condition of the public work, is not new. Even the government isn't new, so she's had time to deal with this problem. And besides, he has legal and applicable tools to correct the matter once and for all, and he does not do it. Much less, it still contributes to the preparation of public works in the designs of the public. We therefore ask the President to inform him of what he ought to do in public works not to promote the preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I do not admit, Mr. Casanova, to compare with a chemist at all events. But I'll tell you, it's not acceptable, not what you accuse. And still less, as you say to her, much less to say in this parliament, that when you're talking about it, it's a charity. That's more than an exaggeration. That's a lie. All the public contracts of the Eukong are filled by the regulations of Europe and state, which are clear rules that offer guarantees. All public contracts are carried out within the framework of Community and State legislation; they guarantee effective competition between companies and greater market opening. Conditions of employment are regulated by Law 3/2011 on Public Sector Contracts. The award criteria are determined by law; in particular, in works contracts, in which the technical conditions are determined by the project, if there is only one award criterion, it must necessarily be the price. Mire, señor Casanova, el praximo 9 de marzo en vigor en nuvera Ley de Contartos del Sector Público, con nuevos criteriums. So the government is aware of the problem in the work conference. It is a proof, for instance, that in 2016 we accepted a decree within the scope of the public contract of certain social clauses. The object of these Klausula is to guarantee the proper needs for the contractions of companies. In effect, the corporations who speak of contracts with the Administration must necessarily observe in the laws, regulations, and compacts. The government is aware of this problem, and therefore, on March 9th, the new law of the contract of the Public Sector is established. Our goal is to combine these two aspects. On the one hand, the intent of the contracts, and the fulfilment of the conditions of labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u9	Look, Mr. lehendakari, if you apply the law and there is still precariousness, it is that perhaps the law has to be changed. More needs to be done, too, because that law allows for precariousness. Thus the main union of this country describes the conditions under which the most important public work of history is being developed in this community, the high-speed train: "It is the example of absolute precariousness, a jungle without laws, whose only objective is its execution, and the inspection looks elsewhere". Similar things tell us about the Zubieta incinerator, the Deskarga highway, the stadium of Anoeta, the stadium of San Mamés, which I mentioned earlier, and others. If the law doesn't count, the law has to change. And for this there are tools, brave and available instruments, even legal instruments, to change the laws and to make the right laws. You can't hide the objective reality that exists in order not to admit the legislation behind it. And this objective reality is the objective reality, the endless chains of opposites, the constant processes of exhaustion, the contract of external labour, the contract of the worse, and the contract of external obligations, that the minimum rate of labour is not applied to public works. I am convinced that if we had people in our homes working in the same conditions that people are working in the public work of this country, we would be shocked and would not allow it. And that's what we're asking you to do. EH Collect, when he was in the Aldudian of Gipulia, made a rule to avoid it. And he did it. And what you have done, instead of continuing this way, and rather than strengthening it, is driven back. EHG will be brought to this legislature by the minimum conditions of labor in the public and in the subcontracts to ensure the minimum pay for 1,200 euros, and to respect the contract of labor, but here they are, and defend the workers' rights rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Casanova jauna, ezkutatu ez. You know perfectly well that you are talking about a basic law of the state. A basic law of the State. You know perfectly well what you're talking about. And I reiterate that this government is sensitive to this problem, and the proof is that in 2016 we passed a decree for the inclusion of social clauses in public procurement. And that the specifications of administrative clauses in the recruitment of the Basque Government establish mandatory conditions to guarantee quality of employment and basic labour rights, social security, safety and health at work, and minimum working conditions. These conditions oblige contracted enterprises to fulfil an indefinite percentage of employment contracts and to guarantee the exercise of the rights of workers. These are the administrative clauses in the recruitment of the Basque Government. I repeat, the contractations of the Red Bugs fill the 2011 Law and the New Law of the Public Sector in March will be established. In the law, then, this is received: that they will enter all public contracts, indirectly and necessarily connected with social standards. This new law shows that Red Christmas has a clear engagement for the rights of all the people working in the public sector. The adoption and implementation of this new law is concrete proof, Mr. Casanova, of the Government's commitment to the rights of all people working for the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, the members of the Podemos team together to the president, about the catersing-enpres of the classrooms at school." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u13	Good morning, Mr. President. A few days ago, the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country confirmed, albeit with a lesser amount, the sanctions imposed on several catering companies for agreeing on the prices of school dining services. These practices have resulted in a million-dollar cost overrun for families and the Administration. At the same time, this House, in its legitimate task of controlling the Government, agreed to open a commission of inquiry last week. Lehendakari jauna, what measures does your Government plan to take specifically in this case, in the case of school eateries, so that, among others and mainly, families can recover the money?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martinez, you are asking about the millionaire overcost and to the detriment of families, and I will tell you that, as far as the economic condition of families is concerned, it is false that, as you say, there has been a millionaire overcost for families. In fact, the allowances paid by families are fixed in advance of the tender, and if there is a deficit, it is paid in full by the Administration. In fact, dining fees have not changed in five years; with the previous contract and with the current one, families pay the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u17	Mr Lehendakari, we are talking about something that, after the investigations, has been seen to be happening for twelve years, more than twelve years. It is evidence on this issue that there are political responsibilities and administrative responsibilities that need to be assumed. It was shown that there was an illegal pact between seven catering companies, which agreed upwards on the prices of school menus, and that this has resulted in cost overruns. In view of these political responsibilities, and the determination of this property damage, the important thing is also to know why nothing has been done for twelve years. Not because I raise it; it is that the High Court itself, in the judgment I have spoken of earlier, reduces the sanctions imposed on companies by arguing that one of the cases in this case is the inaction of the Government. And, as I said before and I repeat, if there is something bleeding within this case is the economic damage that these affected families suffer. More than a thousand families, about a thousand families who are affected by an indeterminate but important overrun on these school menus. Because, as Mr Becerra explained last week already in his speech, there is an effective damage, and there is an effective damage that has been proven, economically evaluable, and that is also an individualised damage. And that the requirements that are required to analyze the property damage that these families have received, and that the Basque Government has not wanted to investigate, these requirements are met, which are the ones I mentioned earlier. But it is also not intended to investigate because it is said that there have been no claims. Of course, how will there be claims, if you don't know how much they have to claim these families! Families can't calculate how much they've been overcharged, and that's why they can't make these claims. It is a fishmonger that bites its tail repeatedly, although the reality is that they do not want to investigate or assume that there is harm to families. They don't want to lift that carpet where they're going to see that then, underneath, there's all the crap. They are not willing to calculate the money that families have paid too much and that the Government has paid too much, because, as I said before, it is a figure that is certainly millionaire, a figure that is millionaire. This is the oasis. It is a world of cardboard-stone in which everything seems to work well in appearance, but where then you see the seams, as soon as you investigate a little. But it can no longer be hidden, so I ask again what is going to be done, what are you going to do so that these families who are affected – who, as I said before, have suffered verifiable and calculable damage – will recover their money.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr Martínez, it's been 18 years since the Board of Education's Office was regulated by the schools' restaurants service, seeing that service was a variety of service. There were still differences in the contracts of the working-class workers and also in the contracts of the officials, and there were differences between the functional posts or the college committees. The administration observed that it was necessary to establish a more equal management, more just and more homogeneous. And there was a new system that had obviously given a remarkable improvement to the service. Since 2000, Mr Martínez, recruitment has taken place, and the various governments have acted with complete respect to the principles of public procurement. This is supported by all legal, economic and technical reports. In 2013, the first of the previous legislature, and before the contract, which was 2011-2014, ended, the Department of Education undertook the elaboration of more demanding specifications for the hiring of the school meal service. It is clear that we have taken action, Mr Martínez. And I repeat: as far as the economic affection of families is concerned, it is false that, as you say, I insist, there has been a millionaire overcost for families. In fact, I also insist, the allowances paid by families are fixed in advance of the invitation to tender. I'll also tell you that families haven't lost anything. Since 2012 the price is the same: 4.60 euros, much lower than the actual cost of the service. And I'll also tell you that 48% of students have a dining scholarship and don't pay anything. Forty-eight percent. The Government is allocating EUR 26 million for this purpose this year. So, during the 2013th year of the Eukong, it took measures on a contract between 2011 to 2014, a year before it was over, and that's very clear, the final resolution of the Basque Agency. And again, families have not had any loss of money. The service has been improved and we will continue to take steps to improve the service given to families. We've taken action. In 2013, I insist, we warned of a margin of improvement and committed it to promote transparency and improve service. It is important to stress that these measures were taken prior to the resolution of the Basque Competition Authority, and the measures taken have proved effective. The new procedure has been endorsed by the Basque Competition Authority itself following its last analysis and the resolution dated 3 October 2017, last year. And this new procedure has further ensured, where appropriate, competition between potential bidders, and improved service to the centres. And I read the resolution: "The Basque Competition Authority resolves not to initiate sanctioning proceedings and to file the proceedings submitted and investigated, because the existence of sufficient evidence of infringement has not been established".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, Gloria Sánchez Martín, a member of the Social Security Congress of the Social Department of Works and Justice, about the 2018 ends of Public Guard." Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u21	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mrs San José, we are well aware of your determination, expressed on every occasion you have had, to try to avoid labour fraud and other negative practices related to the working conditions of workers in our autonomous community. With little access to direct the Department of Labour and Justice, you set up an anti-work fraud mailbox in order to complement the work of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate and allow the arrival of complaints from those who might be afraid of reprisals or any other inconvenience. This mailbox was primarily designed to serve workers of micro-small enterprises, where the work of trade union representation may be problematic or simply does not exist. We thought it was a good initiative at the time, and I think it is reaping its fruits. However, we believe that the basic and effective tool for preventing irregular situations is the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. This is an extremely important instrument to ensure compliance with the law, prevent unwanted situations, and punish cases where the rules are contravened. On the other hand, I find it very interesting that the work of the inspection in Euskadi has been brought to the fore. Last week you accompanied by other offices of the department reported on the most outstanding actions of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. Last year he announced that one of the priorities that had been identified was the revision of part-time contracts. According to you, it was a matter of separating contracts that were justified on a part-time basis from those that should be indefinite. It has been achieved, according to the data provided by you, that almost 2,000 of the 15,000 revised contracts have become indefinite (i.e. 13% of the revised contracts). This is a significant fact, but it is more so if we compare it to the converts in 2016, who did not reach 1,000. But the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate operates in other areas and with other lines of work. Thus, it should be noted that 2,686 Social Security highs have been achieved over 2017 or that these jobs have emerged. Honestly, counselor, figures that demonstrate the dedication, will and effectiveness with which you have worked in 2017. Another notable aspect is the collaboration between the Labour Inspectorate and the Basque Institute of Safety and Health Osalan. These two tools are essential for the prevention of safety and health in workplaces; the investigation and monitoring of work accidents and occupational diseases; and actions when accidents occur. We support your position more favourable to prevention than to punishment, and it is important that you have provided us with EUR 8 million in taxes on uncovered infringements, and the more than 30 corresponding to liquidation cases, which mostly correspond to fraud in social security quotas. In short, a great value that will undoubtedly continue in this exercise, and therefore we ask you to give us a more qualitative assessment of the work of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate and its priorities for 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u22	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Mrs Sánchez, with great pleasure I will make the assessment that you propose to me, and I will provide relevant data on the work of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, and I will give you an account of your objectives and of what we have set ourselves for 2018. You have made a good summary of the objectives and results achieved this year, and you will allow me, Your Honor, to begin by saying that the Labour Inspectorate acts at the impulse of two vectors. On the one hand, through planned actions on which priorities are set, actions aimed both at the labour side and at the prevention of occupational risks. On the other hand, there are so-called petitions, which derive from the complaints and requests of the courts and social security management bodies. The complaints are submitted by trade union organizations, or directly by the workers themselves. You will therefore understand the importance of achieving objectives by those who are at the head of the department, as well as their sharing with the inspection. In addition, the cooperation of workers and their trade union representatives, as well as that of the social partners as a whole, as well as inter-institutional coordination, is also essential. Therefore, when in 2017 we committed ourselves to primarily reviewing part-time contracts, as well as pursuing temporary recruitment fraud, we made it aware that it affected women more. Because our purpose was to focus on something that you, ladies and gentlemen, are fully aware and aware of, as is the inequality between men and women in the workplace. Achieving equality between men and women has been a specific subject of seven campaigns carried out by the inspection during the 2017 financial year, with more than 240 actions, added to those that have been developed in terms of contracts, amounting to more than 1,500. And, as I told you before, a significant number affect women. Our commitment is to achieve the proposed objectives. To this end, we will enhance all the campaigns carried out in 2017, and we will focus on equality plans in Basque companies, with special emphasis on those where there is a wage gap. To achieve this goal proposed by the department and the inspection, during 2018 we will emphasize the work on a very feminized sector such as that of the hotel store, and more specifically on the room cleaning service, acting on the two aspects that I have commented before: in the work, analyzing the possible illegal assignments and double salary scales, and in the prevention of occupational risks, given the important incidence of musculoskeletal disorders. Finally, I would like to appeal to the cooperation of workers, encouraging them and their trade union representatives to denounce, through the tools put at their disposal, irregular situations that they detect, in the assurance that the Labour Inspectorate will act with utmost rigour and will be accountable for its actions. As you said, Mrs Sánchez, our priority is not to sanction, but to enforce the law, and of course to act when it is breached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u24	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, of the president's right of self-determination." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Lehendakari, you have caused concern about the proposal put forward by the group to which you belong in the presentation of self-government. I will briefly describe it: it is a proposal – I say it in a clear way – that does not fit into our legal order despite its appearances, that overflows the constitutional framework, comes to break sovereignty as well, and the new subject appears, which is undoubtedly born of the intended right of self-determination. You invoke a very curious principle of democracy, a democratic principle according to which the majority existing in the field you determine has a legitimacy that is equal to that of the law. Therefore, it ignores, as I say, the principle of legality, and it is certainly nostalgic. It brings us back to past times and to paths we have already travelled. This is taking place at a time of political stability, which has led to important agreements, which have also made it possible to strengthen self-government decisively, since the concert was updated and decisive agreements were also reached between his Government and the Government of Spain to settle old problems, such as that of the Cup. Stability that allows you to have two budgets, make a tax reform and address the future with guarantees that you can drive the reforms that Euskadi needs. Basques' time of satisfaction with the Statute (up to 77%), and I am in contrast to what is happening in Catalonia: to the extent that we maintain moderate attitudes, Euskadi is seen as a model of coexistence between nationalists and non-nationalists. All this is what is put at risk with proposals like the one we saw the other day. Look, your proposal, your group's proposal in the paper, can go ahead; there is a majority in this House who wants to push it. If you throw yourself into the mountain, you have majority and you have support. Look at them, very few have come today, but they give you the majority to go to the mountain, to go that way. It is a different majority from the majority that provides stability and has been supporting its Government. I know that you think that you can play perfectly with fire and that you are very skilled, but those of you who played before with fire burned, and also burned Basque society, which you led to a time of confrontation. I ask you sincerely where you want to take us, because we all have a lot to lose. Basque society has a lot to lose. Euskadi has a lot to lose. But you too have much to lose, which is what you are building in transversal agreements with other forces and with the understanding that you have been able to build with us. Surely there are people who are wishing that here we enter into a conflict, because there are people who want the river to revolt to try to fish some profit, but we are not, and we are committed to stability and to the hand stretched out. And that's why I'm asking you where you want to take us, and I'm asking you to give us guarantees not to take us anywhere we don't want to go.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, "Where do you want to take us?", and I also wonder if I value that promoting the right of self-determination is compatible with stability. And I will tell you that adherence to the right of self-determination defines a democratic political position. And it should be noted that in 1990 this Parliament adopted a proposal in defence of the right of self-determination. That pronouncement of twenty-eight years ago did not suppose or constitute a factor of instability. But let's come to the present. You confuse the right of self-determination with interest... A right which, by the way, I will tell you is a positive right, linked to the other human rights, and which is also recognized by the International Court of Justice. A right, moreover, to self-determination, in constant and evolving, which is not possible without negotiation with the State and without the fulfilment of commitments to international treaties and covenants. But you confuse the right of self-determination with the unilateral declaration of independence; you confuse self-determination with the democratic principle of the right to decide, integrator of wills, with the integral will of all political formations, with the agreed will, as is proposed. And today we are not considering the right of self-determination, Mr Alonso. The proposals put forward defend the right to decide in a legal and agreed manner. This is the essence of a system that guarantees that all ideas are free and can be defended, from the legal point of view, by peaceful and democratic means. And, curiously enough, this is even said by the President of the Spanish Government. And it is the rupture of this principle that leads to instability. The exclusion and unilateral imposition, the doorways, the neglect of the majority social will and the lack of institutional respect, the absence of dialogue with the will to agree, the over-limitation in the application of Article 155, all of this does create instability, Mr Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u29	Look, the truth is that I was expecting a more anesthetic speech from you, not a burning defense of the right of self-determination like the one you did here today in this rostrum. You have the right to think as you wish and to have independent, nationalist ideas... whatever you want, because it is guaranteed by the legal system. But he also has a responsibility as lehendakari: not to be lehendakari on the side, but to be lehendakari of all, of a society that is plural, that has a diversity. And you also have a responsibility not to bring us all into conflict. That's your responsibility. And your responsibility is at least as important as your right to think what you want. So don't put us in that vericue. I will tell you with sincerity: as long as you parapet in the government, your spokesmen in the self-government paper sow winds. And I tell you honestly: the one who sows winds ends up picking up storms.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, have you heard me? Legal, covenant, integral will, integrative will, will of agreement, dialogue with will of agreement... Did you hear me? Look, one of the paradoxes of Spain is that the nationalist parties to which you refer, which in Madrid call them provincial or peripheral in a derogatory way, have guaranteed the stability of the state. And it has happened in very complicated legislatures and with governments of different signs. And, as a counterpart, we have only asked the Spanish Government to assume its responsibilities and comply with the law, for example the Statute of Gernika. And there are other factors that contribute to political instability in Spain, and I will highlight one: the deficit of democratic culture, the deficit of a dialogue with the will to reach agreements to solve the crisis of the territorial model. Look, we have a paper, yes, and I want to believe that we share the goal of updating and deepening our self-government. Each party has made its contribution, and I think that no one will have renounced its final essences and aspirations, but there have been formations that have understood the need to conform to what is endorsed by a significant majority of Basque society. Some formations, such as I belong to, have required realism, flexibility and height of sight to move forward from the very highest consensus, Mr Alonso. And look, yesterday 88% of this House approved claiming the defence of self-government as a right, the capacity and the will that Basque citizenship historically has and manifests, so that the decisions that affect it are not taken regardless of their will. 88 %. You voted against, and you had the opportunity to vote in favour. It is the internal agreement that we are able to reach, which will benefit a new pact with the State that guarantees more and better self-government. We have an opportunity to reach that consensus also with your participation, Mr Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpologies, members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Collectors, made to the Chief of the Public and Autoberon, about the destruction of the 35-hour working of the Officers of the EAE." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u33	The head of the table, Mr. Urkullu, Mr. Erkoreke, all of you, good morning. Today, Mr. Erkoreka, I'm sure we'll make one. Isn't it? In the line of our agreement yesterday, I think, the agreement we and you could make today may be historical in the defence of self-organization. I mean, I'm just saying that because the deal that you made with all the unions in 2000 seems to us to be history and that we can defend it. Historic, not only because the 35-hour work was put on, but because ELA, LAB, Costini, UGT, all the unions had a wide deal, the agreements that are very rare at these times, because it is not easy to make agreements at this time. And it seems to us that although we get more punctual and more partial agreements from the year 2000 to the year 2010, we had another deal, you'll let me say it's an agreement that's not fulfilled by your permission. So we think, just for that, that it deserves an effort. And since we've met with the Supreme Court's verdict, you and Mr. Kererite, the deputy chief physician of your Department, from his statements in the media, there seems to be a possibility to do something and make a deal. To begin with, one question for reflection. A administration that can't even organize its employees, has a government a self-portrait? Or, in other words, what kind of government can it be that can not even organize its administration and its workmen? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Could the organization be a government without the faculty? The state of Guernica is in full force. The government of Spain is indifferent to the state of Guernica, which does not admit of its laws, but changes ad hoc; that is to say, no distinction of power in Spain, no respect for the separation of the powers. Hence it is generally under the pretext of a crisis that the law does not respect the regulations which are established, but it also employs legal institutions. So here we have two options: one to defend democracy, and to defend the rights of all the citizens, or to place them under the control of Spain. And I am sure, Lord Erkoas, that we are agreed on the power of organization which we have in the community, and that we may make a way together, as far as we can. Then, as I am sure, not how we ought to organize and plan round the pattern of organization, that we have differences in it, and that there will be disputes there, but I will give up that discussion later. And we think it ought to be a priority to find a way in which we agree, to find a way to agree. And to understand more fully what we are doing, we are speaking of the profound centralization which the Spanish Government has exercised during the past few years. You yourself mentioned the Spanish Government to water, with the watering of 35 hours of work, the 10th and 21st of the US of Guernica. that he breaks the articles. But 2012. the sublations of the year have been continual, under pretence of a certain limit of expenditure, and of the law of the precedents. We're also talking about the public sector, the ability to organize public employees, with 700,000 workers. It's easy to say. We're also talking about the frame of work relationships and the collective negotiation of defining it. One of your colleagues in the press occupied official data on his article, in which one of your colleagues concentrated on the official data given by the Basque Council of Work Relations, and he said that we already have more of the workers here who are based on the Spanish contract than those of our work contract here. What situation we're dealing with to figure out what kind of thing we're doing and evolution is headed for, right? So the Spanish Government has been so much allowed to interfere in the last few years, that without any complexity it has lost all the Françoisan complexes, and has lost all the Françoise and smallness of the Spanish Government, because it is deep in its depths to strengthen and promote the inseparable Spain. It's logical, isn't it? It's logical that the government of Guernica hasn't filled it, and that it doesn't matter to him in the Spanish Government. But on our side? Do we have to allow that? Did your attitude as far as I'm concerned helps to defend our self-reference? I mean, did he help with our hands, our powers, the constant negotiation? I leave it to you for reflection, Mr. Erkokák. The fact is, that now, by a new political decision received by the Supreme Court, there is no separation of power, the little self-preservation we have, our public function, our collective negotiation, the basis of labor. If the budget is still sufficiently increased, the weakening and secularization of the public system, then what can happen from now on may be a drama if we don't defend the 35 hours of work. The verdict of the summum bonum, due to the great social struggle, the arrangement involved in the origin and distribution of employment, compromises, compromises, and compromises, which had been a great achievement. And that will cause the loss of the job, thousands of places to be lost, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. If we make a comparison, it's in the same state as the corporations who've been decorating the Basque Center. It's about to become the firm where the decisions are being made, like the Artelors, General Electric and the Siemens companies. In fun, of course, decisions would be made in the Spanish Government. So we think the situation is pretty serious. So, seeing the savage desecration that is being given to the quasita and the Spanish State, we must do something about it, won't we, Mr. Erkoek? We think it would be worth an effort to defend our organizational capacity, our manual, our self-portrait. So we'd like to know what kind of steps the fun will take to keep us working for 35 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Ubera, in the shade of yesterday's debate, in the shade of the debate that we had yesterday afternoon, I will admit that today we will arrive in agreement, at least as far as the diagnosis is concerned, at least 100 percent. For when you say, or plan, that the Common-wealth, between the Court, and the Constitution Court, has shared them, our Jurisdiction, which we acknowledged in the Common-wealth of Guernica, has, in a great measure, discharged it in a great degree, and that this excruciation, especially in the case of publique functions, has been serious, and especially serious. I confess that I have accused him several times, and in this I agree with you. I'm not going to be doing this process very long and wide in general what kind of thing it's been up to for the last 30 years. Yesterday we had a long debate about it, I didn't participate in personally, but I think it was quite clear what was the opinion of the parlamentary groups which most of them make up here. But, yes, I'd like to take a short and detailed examination of the development of the public function in the last 20 years, especially because it's very significant, and I believe that this must have been the case with many matters, and that it must have been a severe cut. Our jurisdictions here in the field of public function have two legal columns in the state itself. You mentioned the 10th article, then the 21st or... But in the 10th article there are two parts that build up the powers that relate to our public function. One is the second section. The second section says we have a full right to guide the organization and procedure of our self-organizations. And the second says that we have the power or ability to establish the state of Eucharist and his local administration officials. One is concerned with the organization, the other about the public function. In the second place, the jurisdiction is not complete, it's not exclusive, it's restricted. The State itself says: "Sin perjuicicio de lo establecido en el 149.18 de la Conción." So it's limited. It means, in regard to the public function, that the State is to lay down its foundations according to the State, and that we can complete its development and execution, and have a right to it. What are the duties which a right to the public function in every administration carries within it? I'd do it in four different areas. There are also more, but there are generally four important persons, which, when an administration, or the representatives of any organization from that point of organisation, is treated with negotiation, are they not? One's about the climb in the solo. This is usually the first subject that is planned on every bargainer or placed on the table. Must be the second time about the job. That's the second thing, too. The main thing is always to get up and work out on the solos, often or for the most part. Third, licenses and licenses. We've got a lot of list, moscosis, cannibals, ambers, etc., etc., and so on. And the fourth is the public function itself, i.e. public employment itself, how the LEPs can be made, how the planets can be composed, or cannot be made, and so on. Very briefly, because here, for many things, we should have material for long and wide reflection, we may very briefly say, for the last 20 years, from the share of the central Government, of the Court, of the Court, and of the Constitution, that our jurisdictions have been wholly and gravely cut off and torn to pieces, until almost empty. I'll give you only one example, which is very significant. Nowadays, the only one who can say anything about the promotion of public function in the mediatic space is Montor. Only Montoro has a right today to tell me about the whole administration of the State. And he says they're checking on the up 0.5%, or %1, or %1,5%... But he is the only spokesman, nobody else has the power to do it, and I say this with irony, when the State of the world is desecrated. There is not in the world, since we are called from the Popular Party, any other disorganized state. Well, as far as the rise in the world is concerned, the only spokesman is that of the central state, the central government, the Ministry of Ogasun. That's what I really agree with you. As far as work is concerned, something strange has happened at this point of work 2012. until year each administration had a complete liberty to fix and negotiate its work within certain very general parameters with the representatives of its workmen. That's how it was. And the fundamental legislation said nothing extraordinary about it. He said that each administration would establish the working of its workmen, and that this task may be followed or separated. Such general expressions, but the duration of the work, the amount, were determined by each administration. Then Rajoy came with the absolute majority, and Rajey said in a law of budgets, in an additional regulation of 2012 a year's budget, 71. This was a great deal above the administrative, and he also said that this was fundamental, and that all the authorities were obliged to respect it. This rule has had two resources. You said the government has been abandoned here before, to the central government, to do what he wants. And, well, let it go, let it... He had two resources, two. One, the Gender of Catalonia, the other the one that was made by Red Muffle. I'd set down the bail for it myself, and that's the way we put the resource on it. And in both cases the Constitution Court has beaten us and refused us, saying that this fundamental rule is that it belongs to the State and that we must endure it. The sentence is very curious, and the judgment often makes it appear, that for the Government, for the central Government, there must be a certain point of cynicism; for if it be our argument that there is any fundamental rules of the State in that respect, and that the autonomy communities, at least in our case, have a right to develop this fundamental regulation, then the State cannot exhaust its rule, if it is exhausted by the fact that it does not respect its fundamentality, because it exhausts the rule. And you know what the Constitution Court said? No, he does not exhaust it, but only puts a minimum of it on his own, and he is free from it, as every administration sees best to set up its own task. You see that the Constitution uses a point of cynicism when the Federal Government is right in these parts. Of course, this later has a particular vote, I have several times said that the majority which each member of the Constitution can afford is a private vote, and in this case we succeeded. Three magistrates gave it, and I would sign it myself, because I would express my opinion in the same manner with my words. This is the panomama which we now have according to the law. We have not been led to the Constitution Court by our hours of work, here the lawyer of the State proposed the appeal, the first sentence that the Court of Justice here gave, and the Supreme Court has given us this sentence which the Supreme Court has given us. How to manage this sentence, how to behave in front of it, how the other autonomy members have acted? I don't have time. I'll talk in the second.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u36	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u37	The question you just left for the second round, wasn't it? Now what? So what from now on? What's the big step you're going to make? For, well, it is not very little if we do one at least in the diagnosis, but it is a matter of fact, beyond the diagnosis, whether we can find a way to begin with, to defend our faculties, and to continue our labour at 35 hours. That's the quintessence of today's appeal, and that's the answer we're looking for from fun, because I think it's enough to let Monty go on paper. We must face it, and it seems to me that we are quite mature enough to be able to govern our society by looking for harmony with the social authorities. In the diagnosis, you have distinguished the organization and the public function on the one hand. We could discuss that more deeply, but even in the public function... you have said that our power in public is limited, but in cases which are exclusive, our faculties are not limited, according to the legislation which is established. But the Spanish Government doesn't care for the law that's already established, for the moment, according to the interests of the moment, because it doesn't, or is changing, and that's where it plays. So the point is, what we do is, what steps we take to continue our 35 hours of work, the agreements we've already made with the representatives of the workers to continue. And we think, in our humble opinion, that the agreement which was obtained in 2000 should be confirmed, that it may be a proper formula to confirm this agreement, and once confirmed, to continue with the 35 hours of labour. It also seems to us that this confirmation would help us to begin a new phase, to encourage those agreements, which are so rare at the present time, to encourage a collective negotiation, to give the quantum leap in the auto-organization. And whether we alter our present state of affairs in the case of the euscal society, though, as I have said, we do not approve of the criteria you have for regulating or regulating your model of organization and public function. But, as I said, that will be a discussion for another day. Besides, we shall be glad to discuss, because we often see that you partake of the opinions of the Spanish Government, as well as of the model of organization, or of the public function. Which has often brought with it some want of firmness in defence of our rights before the Spanish Government. But today, today, we think it's essential to defend our faculties and find a way to do so. And we think this discussion should be useful to that, and I'm sure that it's already started, that you announced it in the media, and if you didn't begin the way, we'd like to invite you to interview with the unions, to confirm that agreement you made in 2000, not only in the defence of our powers, but also in the means of building a more just society. It seems to us that it may be a good opportunity if we were all to solve the problem we have in hand. And, well, see if this is the second round you've given me no answer for the first round. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ubera, not only in the diagnosis, but probably very much in the measures to be taken... we can be agreed on the level of principles. Last week, in the days before me, I heard Arnnaldo's shop on the radio and he said when they asked him a specific question: No nos iremos al monte. I think you'll agree with that because he's the leader of your organisation. I agree with that, too, "no nos iremos al monte." Yesterday, the High Court clearly remarked that this system now established, and one thing which every one would like. And from this point of view every one thinks his end, but that we are here today and must play with it. And when this is done, the limits are often firm and clear, and the accusation remains, as was done yesterday. Yesterday we all agreed, as Jon said himself, because we're on this system, we'd like to have another, but while the other alternative takes place, we must continue in this, and as far as we do this, we must join with its boundaries, and therefore "nos iremos a monte." So I agree with Jone and Arnnaldo. I suppose we'll have complete agreement there. You're telling me that the past agreements should be ratified on this, formally confirmed. Well, when this fundamental legislation was given, it was applicable to all the administrations, all of which are governed by the Basque Administration. Can you tell me that he confirmed this agreement? "The State has put this into the fundamental legislation of the United States, but do we confirm the decision which has been previously made by public and formal? "One, give me one. I want you to put an EH Collect ordered as an example. So you're asking the government to re-establish a public statement that nobody has ever done anywhere. I see where you're going. I'll tell you something, and I think I'll give you a thorough answer to that question you ask. Begira, Mrs Ubera, the Government is not going to rush into making decisions that have to do with the working hours of its employees and public employees just at a time when the central government, the promoter, the author of this set of basic rules that coerce Basque self-government, is seriously, and publicly and explicitly, proposing a revision of the basic rules in this area. And this is for simple reasons of economy, efficiency and efficiency, for obvious reasons, isn't it? Because we're talking about managing 70,000 public employees. A reorganization of the working day of 70,000 people, distributed in completely different areas of organization, with radically different functioning and operating regimes, would entail an organizational effort that would perhaps remain in the water of drunkards if within a month and a half the central government, in a humorous one of Mr Montoro's, thinks of changing, as it has announced, the basic rules of the State. And it would force us to reorganize everything again, in an organizational – I insist – effort that is not exactly irrelevant. Therefore, the Government's idea is, from the utmost respect for the institutional whole and, of course, for the rulings of the courts, not to rush into such decisions, when the central Government itself is announcing measures that will, apparently, radically alter the basic regulatory framework in place in this area. I believe, therefore, that I have made it clear: we are not going to go to the mountains, but we are not going to rush into the application of these kinds of rules, that applying them would mean addressing an organizational effort radically contrary to rationality, if after a month and a half we have to return to the original situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u40	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The seventh point on the theme list: "The question is, that the members of the Congress of the Obi-Catherbes, made to the Chief of Economics and Sub-Separatas, about the electric sea-side connection between Gatica and Cubenais." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u41	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Tapia, they're trying to connect the town of Biscay and the Cubnezais around Bordeaux with an electric high tense line. They've got 600 million Euro out of Europe, but the project will cost 18800 million, and we'll all pay, of course, through the light bill. We have not found any reason to justify this work. Looks like you did. Not long ago, according to EiTV: "Aranga Tapia ha marcho su satisfacción por la invesion... "I don't know. But beyond the press, we would like to hear the rate of this government, because we do not understand how it can be agreed with the reasons which have been given; Interconnecting and retracting. You'll tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u42	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. In the first place, Mr. Otero, you have to tell me that this handbag, this intercommunication, is not a joke, and that Red Eletricia and RTE, must make his homolobals in France. In fact, we even have an opinion about this infrastructure and it's positive, as you say. Why? There is, at this moment, an interrelation which the European Union exercises, on the one hand, a guarantee of food, of security, of patience, and of the decisions which it has made about the climate, and which it contributes. And why do we agree or why does it seem positive to us? Because it will allow energy to circulate freely without frontiers between Member States. This will enable us to share the renewable generation of the whole of Europe; that there can also be a reduction in prices for consumers, both businesses and individuals, and that new jobs can be created in those companies that are working, not only at the time of the work, but in everything that will lead to it. In addition, from an environmental point of view, well, it collaborates in everything that has been established as a strategy at European level: in terms of decarbonisation, collaboration – I want to insist – in terms of what is signed in the Climate Pact; in terms of the generation of renewable energy and its massive use, and in terms of a single policy and Europe speaking with a single voice in this area. In addition, it will allow the reconfiguration, reconnection or improvement of the existing connection between many countries (including the Iberian Peninsula as a whole) as an island. It will allow that to stop happening, a stable system, and that interconnection will make it easier for us to improve the situation that has been established in Europe, to have 15% by 2030. So supplies, security, improvements, yes. And we also know that the larger the interconnecting, the retrieval energy, which is created in one place, will also be useful in other places, and that those which are perhaps superfluous and are not used at the present time will be useful with this interstate connection. We think it will be positive, though at the moment of the work of environment, we must see exactly what is done, what conditions are formed, and not only of us, but of the township, in order to transmit to us the uneasiness and improvements of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u45	Well, you're wrong again, Mrs. Tapia. You reason – and I have already told you this – as a delegate to the Ministry of Development of Spain, but you are a Euskadi Economic Development Advisor. Who has interconnection problems? Does Basque have interconnection problems? I'd say no. According to the latest balance sheet of the Basque Energy Authority, 65% of the electricity we consume is imported by interconnection. And Europe was talking about 10% or 15%: we have a hundred percent interconnection. Do we have problems, or do Spain have problems, in interconnection? Let's see, if last week Miranda and Logroño wanted to get together at high speed, they didn't have to go through Euskadi, because it was in their interest. Well, take that same argument, and now apply it to this. It's very easy. Let's not change logic every week. Or am I wrong, and do we have any problems with evacuating that renewable energy that we produce, when it turns out that we don't produce 10% in renewables? He's just laughing a little bit! If it's about bringing French nuclear power or putting the gas thermal power plants up here, which are dead in the face, go down and say that, but that's not true, because it's not true any of the reasons that are given. There are some allegations to the project that I want to quote here today because I think they hit the nail, and they say this, among other things: "The initial document lacks a justification for public investment and affection in the territory and over people"; "The project bets on an outdated and obsolete model, based on the centralization of production and transport by large lines. It is contrary to the underlying trends, which bet on the decentralized generation with local consumption and self-consumption"; "The electrical system has a demand much lower than the supply, and there is an increase in transport lines for a consumption in decline"; "Incomprehensible outside the private interests of the company itself, both respectable and impossible to confuse with the public interest and social necessity"; "The installed power far exceeds the maximum of the pontency ever consumed in Spain"; "In short, its justification is fallacious and is only useful from the purely venous logic of the large corporations that dominate the market. On the other hand, from the logic of consumers, the only one to take into account if it has public funding, is unjustified and useless, and, given its high cost, an unacceptable waste"; "There is no study or evidence to show that more interconnection would benefit the energy market, the development of renewable energies or security of supply". And the French energy regulator, in June 2016, said that the existing interconnection is long underused in relation to demand, so it can be concluded that the project would contribute to supporting an energy model based on large nuclear power plants and fossil fuels, being therefore counterproductive for the energy transition, etc., etc., etc. And the funny thing, the funny thing, is that these allegations are signed by the mayor of Gatika, Leixuri Arrizabalaga, with whom I am 100 percent agree, which is on your bench and to which I believe you should address in the reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u46	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u47	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. No, I am going to refer to you, because, as you are asking, I am going to refer to you. And what I love every time you come down here is that you're always in possession of the truth. The others are wrong, you are the one who knows what needs to be done in this country, throughout Europe, and in the world, apparently. Too bad they don't hire you as a global advisor, because that's what you should be. In any case, I would like to remind you that this infrastructure does not even depend on the Ministry of Development. Then, learn a little bit, because this depends on the ministry of another lord who carries the energy issue. Remember it. You're talking about Euskadi, but you're referring to Spain. But I still believe that the European Union as a whole should not be so wrong, when it really defends why we need to be well interconnected, why we need to do so, and under what conditions the bill can be lowered as a result of proper interconnection. And it is undeniable that that renewable energy that is being produced... I'm... Look, the only thing I agree with you is that we don't produce enough renewable energy, but we can bring it from other places if we're well interconnected. So, I think it's justified and we have to work to make it the best possible way. That's our only goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, by Guanche Suáz together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to Enplegu and the head physician of the Polic Society, to the Euscal strategy of the Immigration (IV. Plan) About the final evaluation. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u49	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, chief of the board, members of the Parliament, chief of the department. On 19 October 2017, an initiative was unanimously adopted in a plenary session of this Parliament on the proposal of our group, whose compromise amendment stated that before the end of 2017 the evaluation of the immigration strategy would be presented. With this view, we ask you, in your mouth, what is the question: What are the reasons for repeating the final evaluation of the strategy in order not to have it packed over and over?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Tinishara. Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u51	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. That motion, that GNP, not only said that; it also said that the 2018-2020 strategy had to be presented for the first half of the year. Then, I sincerely consider, Mrs Guanche, that we have not failed, and if we have failed, it has been for a month and a half. Therefore, I would like to say that the Government, and in particular this department that I lead, indicated that the evaluation of the Basque Immigration Strategy 2014-2016 will be presented by 31 December, and that is what was agreed and what we agreed. In no case was it expected to be by 30 June 2017. I don't know that we said that from this department. We are also committed to doing this Basque Strategy for Immigration 2018-2020 for the first half of 2018, which this strategy will also be transformed into the 5th Action Plan for Citizenship, Cultural Diversity and Emigration in 2018-2020, and that plan will be on June 30. The evaluation of the Basque Strategy for Immigration is now complete, in the absence of its modeling and translation, and I trust that they will have it at their disposal over the next week. The evaluation team, as well as the one that is also conducting and working on the strategy, has maintained contact with 132 people from institutions, organizations, political parties and entities working in the field of diversity, citizenship and immigration. And its own group participated, as you well know, in one of those working meetings, specifically in the one held at its headquarters on 24 November 2017. The widely participatory procedure has been widely accepted and praised by the sector as a whole. And it is clear that this less participatory working format, or a less participatory working format, would have enabled us to achieve results before, but, as on other occasions, such as the family area or the third sector, we have preferred to enhance this participation even at the cost of delaying its implementation. The result of this work, this evaluation work and this participation work has been the consolidation of existing instruments, such as Biltzen or Ikuspegi, the creation of Aholku Sarea or the Eraberean network, or the renewal and dynamism of the forum, among other examples. The group of actors, entities and NGOs and voluntary organizations continues to work and work closely with the institutions to better integrate the various groups. The active participation of the third sector and the various actors has been an important fact, which has been able to slow down the presentation of this evaluation in a month and a half. And in relation specifically to the question that asks me – the forecast was to have the evaluation by 31 December – this one has now arrived, only a month and a half later, due to a delay in the tasks of modeling and translation, and because we have prioritized the participatory process to carry out a good immigration strategy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u53	Together, the Podemos team is still working on the rights, the co-operation, the politics of society. Por es eso pregunmos, no por port omora cosa, eh! It is the work of this Parliament and of the groups that make up the opposition to control the government, and just don't bother because we are asking this question, because indeed – I am used to preparing the issues when I come – they had committed themselves by 31 December, I am aware of the content of this motion, but it is that we are on 16 February and you have not been happy to give an explanation before. But, apart from that, the Basque Immigration Strategy, which came to an end at the end of 2016, made a commitment to present the evaluation in June. In your government program, specifically commitment 140, you set out a commitment to update the strategy. From Parliament we remember this at the time when you were engaged, and you are given six more months, and yet we are still without strategy. In our view, this is not a minor issue. We understand that in the social and political time in which we find ourselves the coexistence of citizenship has to be in a first order, and at that time, in the defence of that GNP, we expressed three concerns that we continue to maintain today and for which we understand that it is necessary to present this assessment and the next plan as soon as possible. Those concerns that we expressed were the risk of overlapping plans, because there are plans, such as coexistence, jihadism or trafficking, that if they do not have a framework to guide them, they can be short-lived or only partially addressed. We also shared the concern about approaches from different plans and the risk of collision between them (that is why strategy is urgent, clarity is urgent and coordination is urgent). But we were also manifesting the risk of a securitisation approach that we are seeing in the plans that are being presented in this House. And – we said it in October, we continue to say it today – these concerns are not picked up, and we do not see the leadership that we understand is fundamental to establish by your department. We believe that the fact that the population migrated to Euskadi, which is 6.5, is perceived as 20 %, or that the groups of Maghreb, Pakistani or Romanian origin are perceived as the group with which the least empathy is felt, even if it comes to rejection, makes this issue at the heart of the agenda and does not have to be left to the end. In accordance with the leadership of the public administration in its most agreeable associations and integrations, it is necessary to consider all this, and to begin with the process of constructing a more cohesion of society, with the members and members of the social and community. We congratulate the department on keeping social partners in mind. We have participated in this and will continue to participate in all those initiatives that the department understands to be necessary to contribute to a better policy of immigration and coexistence, but, nevertheless, you do not hide behind that process for not having met the deadlines, because I believe that there is no other possible excuse here. They're not fulfilled, and that's it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u55	Thank you. Mrs. Guanche, you consider that I have not fulfilled... I can tell you that I have not complied in the month and a half, because the proposal that was adopted in Parliament with the unanimity of this House said that I had to present before the end of the year the last evaluation, which is what I have not done, because we are in February... Yeah, but, man, what we've prioritized is collaborative work and participation. So, I do believe that I am a leader, I do believe that we are working, I do believe that this government has among its fundamental objectives to work for immigration and diversity, and so we are recognized by the agents we are working with. In addition, I would also like to say that the data from the end of the year highlight that we have improved our positions with regard to 2013 in the field of immigration and the management of cultural diversity. We have complied with the motion... we have complied with, pardon, the GNP, and by the end of June they will have the strategy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group of Laura Garrido Körr, made to the Chief of Eplegus and Polynic Society for finger marks on the profession." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, good morning, chief of departments, members of the legislature. On 22 March, the Councillor for Employment and Social Policy announced measures to improve the management and efficiency of income-guarantee income. These measures are explained at the committee meeting held on 10 April in the Basque Parliament, and among them was the adviser on an identification system for both users and workers. In a number of replies to questions raised by this group regarding when this measure announced by the adviser was to be implemented, we were told that the implementation of this measure was pending after the technical selection, testing, signing of the agreement with Izenpe, progressive installation of the control systems, electronic records and carrying out the corresponding pilot tests. We want to know, Commissioner, with this question, whether it is the Basque Government's view to set up a definitive fingerprint mechanism. I am already telling you in an imminent or definitive way, since you announced this measure almost a year ago.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u58	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u59	Yes, Mrs Garrido, our aim is to implement the digital identification system in the Lanbide autonomous body, our aim is also to improve Lanbide and its management, and fortunately the new digital technologies will allow us to make positive progress in this area. Already at the beginning of 2017 we found the need to establish greater efficiency and control of the identification and registration processes of Lanbide. Throughout the past year we have worked on a new electronic identification system, and after that analysis we are going to incorporate a new digital medium that demonstrates the identity of the citizenry, based on the necessary technical and legal security to achieve more agile and transparent procedures that respond to the current needs of society. The new digital technology is increasingly used in financial institutions, access to institutions, companies, sports facilities, airports... Until now, the control of the identification of those accessing the various services provided by Lanbide had an aspect to improve with regard to identification through different documents. When from the Department of Employment and Social Policy we have designed lines of improvement of the Lanbide service, it has been proposed the incorporation of this modern element of management and control. Based on the above situation, the proposal developed since Lanbide proposes identification by biometric data to all users of Lanbide. This requirement requires an enabling provision and meets two objectives: to improve the use of digital identification, and to improve control. To this end, work has been done with Izenpe, with the aim of proving the identity of the citizenry. In particular, a system has been developed to ensure digital identity in access to telematic procedures, which replaces others such as coordinate cards, access keys... That is, using biometric data. The pilot experience we have carried out in recent months in Lanbide's central services has worked on aspects that have to do with the storage of information, the speed of the application, access to it and security conditions. After that testing phase, we will deploy the digital identification implementation project over the second quarter of 2018, which reaches ten offices in Lanbide in a first phase. The presence of Izenpe in this project will ensure at all times respect for the rules of management, use and preservation of the files where the information is found, according to that required by the Organic Law of Data Protection, issue very relevant in this project. In addition, last December, the procedure for drawing up the standard implementing electronic identification using biometric data for the relationship with Lanbide was initiated by an order from the adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u60	Thank you, chief physician, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u61	Well, apart, logically, from the necessary procedure, and with the right guarantees, for the implementation of a measure of these characteristics (a control measure which, by the way, you rejected in the previous parliamentary term), I would like to recall the debate raised here by former Mayor Javier Maroto regarding the implementation of this control mechanism, the fingerprint, and how we were told from the bench of the Basque Nationalist Party that with this initiative we intended to stigmatize the recipients of the RGI. You have passed, to deny the need to establish changes in the regulations, changes in the management of the GIR, to recognize – as you recognized in the appearance made on April 10th – the need to improve the management of Lanbide. Because Lanbide's management was a concern, and I say it textually. They also went on to deny the need to establish a specific control unit in Lanbide, to implement that control unit, as the People's Party had been defending for quite a long time and embodied in concrete initiatives. That is so, when you gave the appropriate explanations in the committee to which I have just referred, it was specified or significantly emphasized that this initiative had nothing to do with the fingerprint that the People's Party had put forward. Well, conclusion: time has given us reason, and those mechanisms that you repeatedly, in numerous initiatives, in numerous statements, have denied, therefore, it seems that in the end you have been recognizing that in Lanbide there was a problem and that it was a cause for concern, as you noted in the appearance to which I have referred. But, having made these references, we would, Madam Counsellor, like to have you answer us in this rostrum to the specific question that we have put to you. In other words, is it the Basque Government's view to implement this control mechanism, the fingerprint, which improves management in Lanbide, in an imminent and definitive way? We believe that this question already deserves an answer, considering that you have been in the legislature for a year, that you announced this measure almost a year ago, and you are talking about that, at best, it will be implemented in the second quarter of 2018, that you are conducting pilot tests... We believe that you already need to take action, and apart from specific measures such as this, that we can also see sooner rather than later a comprehensive reform of Lanbide and the bill amending the Income Guarantee Act.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u62	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u63	Mrs Garrido, the Basque Nationalist Party did reject and continues to reject the proposal that Mr Maroto put forward in this House to identify the recipients of the GIR, because it only girded and focused on the use of that identification in a very concrete collective. It is very different from the proposal that this Government has put forward and that it is going to implement in the autonomous body, which means an improvement in the management that we are going to make from Lanbide with all the workers, with all the users of Lanbide, regardless of their origin. The objective, what we intend, is to be more agile, transparent, and with a lower bureaucratic burden. For that, new technologies are responding to the needs that the new society is demanding. If in industry we set the example of industry 4.0, why will we not be able to put new technologies in organizations and institutions, to improve and do so in a much more agile and transparent way with our citizens? In addition, the fingerprint is not only going to be used to identify it, but we are also going to require it to identify people in the Lanbide training courses that they provide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "Mina Kortaja, Ibañez EH Collectors to the Chief of Police and Society, about the new preparation that comes to replace the Prepara plan." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u65	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislative class, chief of the Artola generouss, all good days. They're not the best time for jobs. The year that has just ended has brought with it the descent of unemployment and the creation of employments, but it has not brought with it any social employment. It is evident that attempts in respect of the employment police are not giving a proper result, and that we have a society that remains behind. There are the women, the young ones and, of course, long-term unemployed. It is true that the number of long-continued labourers has descended for the last time, but it is still too large, and that it is on its way to become chronic. The profession has also made us sensible of it, and the state demands, no doubt, to activate new and additional measures, and we have been informed by experts. And he's out of business, and he's probably not the best for him either at the moment. In this context, the Prepara plan ends, but here's a new preparation. We have learned from the media that the preparation is designing Madrid, it will arrive in May, the profession will manage it, and the income will have an additional income to support it. And the Ministry of Madrid seems to be studying the different programs that will be running from May at this moment. We do not know what new preparation will be, and how the programmes will be about this preparation, but we know the results and consequences left to our predecessors, and they are neither good nor pleasing. A more consistent and consistent public policy is necessary and urgent in the opinion of the EH Collectors. And for this purpose, we must have a proper and complete employment policy fitted to our reality. And we would like to ask you, Mrs. Artola generous, on this very October granted by the legislature, how this new preparation, designed in Madrid, and here managed, will contribute to the establishment of a employment policy in this community of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u67	Thank you for the question, señora Kottaja. As you know, the Preparation Plan is an aid targeted at long-term unemployed persons or those with family responsibilities who have already exhausted all regular benefits or allowances. In addition to the Preparation Plan, there is another type of aid, namely RAI and PAE. In the current crisis situation, Decree-Law 1/2011 of February 2011 introduced a temporary six-month programme for persons who had exhausted their unemployment protection. It was based on actions to improve employability and on the receipt of accompanying economic aid, and, in view of the market situation and the needs of these people, it was being extended in a successive way. He had a number of conditions, that the unemployment rate was above 18%, and that made it automatically extended. But in August 2017 that circumstance did not happen and the unemployment rate was lower, so it could not be automatically extended. The Autonomous Communities had to unanimously welcome the State to continue to manage one thing... because the circumstances had changed, and there was another additional situation: that there was a ruling that gave the Basque Government the right, because the State was violating the constitutional order. In view of this situation, and to ensure continuity, we did give that approval, but on one condition: that a bilateral agreement be signed between the Government of Spain, the Ministry of Employment, and the Basque Government. With two objectives, or three objectives: one, which was exceptional and time-limited, and two, which also took into account the fact that there were benefits that were being offered to these people from the Basque Government and that the incompatibilities that the programmes managed by the State and the autonomous communities had at that time had to be eliminated. Therefore, this agreement was concluded, the compatibility and complementarity of our aid is reflected, the State is told that it is an exceptional measure and valid until 30 April, and what I can tell you at this time is that we are also concerned, we are contacting the Ministry of Employment, with the aim of being informed of the situation in which they are located, with a view to... We do not know what they are going to do, if they are going to unify these aids into a single aid, under what conditions, to whom it is directed... and, therefore, we are asking the ministry to inform us, and technically the teams of both governments are working to see where the new aids that the ministry says are going, which we have learned from the media, with a view to establishing new aids from 1 May.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u69	Yes, thank you. Well, from your answer, I don't really have to make it very clear to me that, as this legislature has marked, we have seen afterwards what the Spanish Government has done to them. And these new preparations and new programs will perhaps be better than the first ones, or it may be that we design and form them here, but it does not appear that we shall be able to manage a very consistent policy, a very special policy. And the truth is that Madrid's policies are weak and totally inadequate policies to promote employment opportunities for the unemployed. And so are those policies, policies that do not conform at all to our reality and therefore do not respond to the needs of the most vulnerable. And I think you'll agree on that, too. There's chaos from Madrid. There's chaos. We've seen it all these months, and these years of experience. And in that, there are plenty of people left behind us. It is necessary and necessary to put new and effective preparations in front of these circumstances, adapted to our reality and peculiarities, which are here and in our own. And the way is not to wait for Madrid. Do not wait for Madrid, Mrs Artolazabal, because surely it will not be worth it, and you already know what the saying says, that the one who hopes despairs. I believe that in this case the evidence, which is already almost scientific, shows that the solution that this country and the people of this country need is not going to come from Madrid. And we're not here to pass the time. This town has no more time to spend than our society does.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u71	As you yourself said, Mrs Kortajarena, we do not know what the new benefits are going to be, but I can tell you that we are working, at least we are trying to move it to the ministry, and for that we have requested a meeting with the minister, with the aim of transferring it, from our responsibility, what measures could benefit these people. As I have told you before, these technicians from both the ministry and the government are working for the future of this aid for the long-term unemployed. We have achieved something that is very important and that to date was not collected; that the aid that the State was providing to this group at this time was incompatible with the income guarantee income and we could not supplement it, and what we have achieved in this bilateral agreement is that, first, it is compatible, and, second, there is the possibility of supplementing such aid if the people in need meet the requirements of our income guarantee income.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Number of points in theme list: "Intertermination, Leire Pindo Bustmane EH Collectors to Ogal and Economics Chief, about the idea of your social security and my pensions were appropriate to you." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u73	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Subauzu, on a well-known day, ten days ago, you spoke a long time of economic matters, and spoke a long time about the system of Social Security and the state of pensions. You know that the business of pensions for the Basque People is, in particular, important themes of social security. We have, of several different points of view, brought them into discussion, here to the legislature, to the dignity of pensions, to form pensions, and, of course, to the jurisdiction of social security. It is because it is extremely important for the Basque People to build a just and advanced society for the United States to have a strong, coherent, consistent, well-made public protection system. because the Social Security for us is a central system of such a powerful protection. We have made it clear that the Basque People are always defending Social Security, defending Euskal Social Security, their own system, we have no difficulty in saying that for the benefit of the Basque Society, because the State system guarantees not a decent life, and a few pensioners. We have often heard of it, and you have heard in Bizka, Gipulia, and Aran, in the present state, that it is a defensive system, but that it is not alone here in our countries, that the State system has the same problem as it is, and that it has the full deficit of 18,800 million. And when you came to the question of the deficit, you were asked a question about it, and you said to the question: "Let us give you the right and give him the necessary answer." And by your words, Mr. Counsellor, one can understand that they have a plan, that they have a plan to deal with the deficit (he said deficit) of Social Security from here. What is your Government's approach to social security? What measures does your Government work to address this general deficit of the state social security system? When I heard you say these words about Social Security, I must confess that I came here on behalf of Mrs. San José, a member of the government, and also of our discussions here about the jurisdiction of Social Security. Your words came to me because they were new, because your words brought novels. Because, Mr. Counsellor, we are talking about a crucial issue, a key issue for any society that aspires to have a state of developed well-being that aspires to guarantee a life worthy of its citizenship throughout its life. An issue that cannot be delayed any longer, cannot be delayed any longer. As you well know, and you also said at that conference, the transfer of Social Security has been pending for thirty-eight years. A transfer that each and every successive Madrid government has refused to transfer. A transfer on which representatives of the People's Party and the PSOE insistently prevent us, using for it, without any fear, the scare – never better said, the scare – of fear, and that paternalistic halo that they always have about self-government. A jurisdiction over which the State apparatuses, with the Constitutional Court at the head, have not hesitated to influence, to limit it and to extend the competence of the State itself, assuming competences that do not belong to it and playing, in a certain way, to replace the legislator, and going far beyond what the literal tenor of the Constitution and the literal tenor of the Statute of Gernika say. But beyond the controversy about the right, we think we must always think of the people in their own benefit, and therefore we wish to hear your words to-day. We know what's going on now. We know the state of pensioners to-day, and even the pensioners present themselves in public with the impatience of their position, before the loss of their pensions, in the presence of their small pensions. In short, the pensioners in the street are saying that the present system does not guarantee their worthy conditions of life. But we know that there are other matters besides pensions about Social Security or the jobs police, as we have just heard. And the concerns of pensions are not only of the pensioners of today, but of all of us. After all, the discussion is in the street, Mr. Chief. For some time past, you're getting a lot of different ideas from Madrid, but these are just ideas. They don't put it on the table in Madrid to guarantee decent pensions. They're going all the way up and down, and they don't make up their minds to solve the problem they've created. We have recently heard Minister Báñez talk about the period to be calculated in order to calculate the pension, according to her to benefit those expelled from the labour market of the old age and with long-term contributions. Of course, Mrs Báñez voluntarily forgets that all these people were expelled from the labour market thanks to the reform of the People's Party. We have also heard it say that pensioners have gained purchasing power in the last decade. And it doesn't blush. He says it and it stays so wide! Years of crisis, years of crisis in which we all know, and we have said more than once in Parliament, that these pensions have become the only source of income in all these years of crisis. And we have also heard, for example, Mrs Villalobos, who is currently chairman of the Toledo Pact Follow-up Committee. And she said, "There are a significant number of pensioners who are more passive (i.e., collecting pension) than active (i.e., working)." A statement, from my humble opinion, totally irresponsible and incendiary, counselor. And I'm sure you share the view. And that's where they're in Madrid, Mr. Counselor, dizzying the loser. Marginalizing the partridge, to which we are accustomed. And pensioners and pensioners have said enough, and pensioners and Basque and Basque pensioners have said enough. They have gone out on the street to say loud and clear that they have lost purchasing power, that they want decent pensions; that the widows of this country, after years of work – invisible work for the institutions – deserve decent pensions. And, of course, of course, there is also the demand for a proper pension system, because you see what is giving you the state system, which impoverishes you day after day. This is the situation we have, Mr. Chief. More than five million pensioners in the state pay a pension smaller than the SMI. But here, too, we have 192000 pensioners in that state in the community. After 2013 PP's reforms, the pensioners will be more and more in this situation, and more and more will be in a state of poverty if we do not measure them. It's the situation in which the pensioners of this day want answers, they want steps, but we still want pensions. I want to hear your words today, Mr. Chief, I want to know what the government's view is today about Social Security, which measures the deficit of the modern system that you are working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u75	President of the legislature, chiefs of the legislature, members of the legislature, all good days. Mrs Pinedo, I will try to explain my position to you, and what you are asking me in your speech, as briefly as possible – I would say clear – as possible. I thank you a little in advance also for the hijacking that has thrown me for the intervention on the 5th. I thank you for saying these words to me, which are not usually very common. I must say in advance that pensions are obviously also very important to the Government, pensions and pensioners are very important to this Government, and of course it will do everything it needs to do to defend its interests. We will defend the rights of pensions and pensioners, but we also need to be aware of the legal framework in which we enter, so as not to generate false expectations and not make false promises. I believe that action must be taken in this area, as in others, but especially in this area, with full responsibility. Regardless of the inaccuracy of the intercommissioned person that the justification for his inquiry exposes (i.e. the exact expression is that I claimed the statutory transfer to seek a solution), I must answer him directly, and to begin with, that it is not for the Basque Government to solve the social security deficit. To begin with, Mrs. Pindo, let us see what my words were: "Let us give you the right and give you the necessary solution." Then, you can tell me that it's not about making me a state of social health, it's not like that's about the Red Muncher. I say this and without repeating what I said at my conference on last day 5, in which I wanted to make it clear that the current deficit responds to a situation, but that since the beginning of the Spanish social security system the net contribution of Basque taxpayers is also a fact. What the Basque Government has always been, but particularly in this legislature, through the report on the updating of outstanding transfers delivered in the Self-Government Office last September, has been calling for compliance with the statutory provisions, which have now been blank for almost forty years. That is to say, in the present case, that the management of the economic system of social security should be transferred (Article 18.2), and that this should be done within the Joint Committee on Transfers through the appropriate agreements, within the unitary character of the system and respect for the principle of solidarity of the model, as laid down in the fifth transitional provision. Nothing more, but nothing less. In short, it is imperative for the State to feel and negotiate the transfer of management of the economic system of social security, in order to turn over its content, negotiated bilaterally, all the statutory potential that this Government will be able to implement even in the area of management. This, logically, has nothing to do with the health of the social security system in force in the State, a model of which we are part but whose regulation is only the responsibility of the State, even if it has effects in the Basque Country. We know that managing the economic system of social security is not the same as regulating the system itself, and that the model, today, cannot change it. But we also know that any transfer, however small it may be, and this is not, has resulted in a close, profitable, responsible management that makes us more autonomous every day. That is what we want on the issue of pensions, Mrs Pinedo, which does not take away so that, from a strictly political point of view, the Basque Group in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate also has its voice in the definition of the model itself, which – we understand – also requires immediate reconsideration. Thus, in summary, with regard to the transfer, and although Spain's social security model is considered to be affected by serious structural problems and serious demographic problems, the fact is that negotiating and achieving the transfer in the current statutory terms is something that is essential for the Basque Autonomous Community. I think you will agree with this, because it is not in vain that your group has tabled a non-legislative proposal in this Parliament on the obligation to comply in full with the Gernika Statute, which directly, and for what we are dealing with, means that, in principle, they want the management of the economic system of social security to remain in the hands of the Basque institutions as a future step. However, whether there is currently a deficit or surplus within the territorial framework of the Basque Autonomous Community, this should not be an essential element in considering negotiating the transfer of management of the economic system of social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u77	Yes, thank you. Thank you, chief physician, for your answer. I always say what I think and it seemed interesting to me, and I told you there, without a camera, and you know I'm really honest. But you left me a little cold today, I must confess, I must confess. You said it, and you said it well, and for that reason I said firmly: "Let us give you the right and give you the necessary solution." It's the birbegiratu bideoa you don't lendzeko, it's your zegoen slut Zehatz beat ezzean. And they asked him why in a survey of entrepreneurs they said they didn't look viable, and they told him about the deficit. And you replied, "Well, I think there it is" (there was also the lord...), there is the transfer; let us transfer it, and we will give you a solution." And at that time the solution was to the deficit, counselor, or at least in that phrase it could be understood and so we understood many of those who were there, and even so the media understood it. Because you tell me to talk responsibly, not generate false expectations. I'm telling you the same thing, Counselor. I'm telling you the same thing. You know I'm pretty serious, and I'm not talking about it. I know what I want, and I'm sure that you here today haven't said what you really want, because you speak on behalf of a government. And as he speaks on behalf of a government (and then he has let me fall to the Basque Group) I think it has already had to be contained. You've had to hold back, counselor. Because it is true, the EH Bildu group has called for compliance with the Statute. Moreover, I here at some point expressly asked for the transfer of the economic management of Social Security, with all that it entails, but as the Statute says, not as some have later devoted themselves to trying to interpret, with laws of much lower rank than the Statute and the Constitution itself, which will not be mine, but I too have read it. I'm really worried about you. We also have an engagement with pensioners, chief physician, as you are, I have pledged to pensioners, and we will defend worthy public pensions here, in Madrid, in Europe, and anywhere else. And that's why we'll bring in some initiative. Because we think it's a fundamental issue, not just because it's on the street now, like some people do. We brought the subject last year, when the subject was not yet on the street. We've always been worried about this, always. And now we're worried, and we're with pensioners, and they're telling us their concern, and you know they're asking a lot of eucalynists to take a step. Today you have dropped the Basque Group's issue at the end, but it is not just the Basque Group. It is that the Basque Nationalist Party, which also supports the government you are part of – but you, I understand, have to answer me as a member of the government and I will understand it, without any problem – in your proposal in the commission of the new status, in the Batzorde, has said "faculties related to the system of labour relations and social security protection, which must include the full legislative capacity of Euskadi". That's what Jeltarian Party said. I understand you're a member of the government, but I hope you'll go that way for a while, too, because that's the way we can find it, Mr. Chief. We can find him, and you know it. Because we are talking about a vital issue; I have said that in my first speech, and you have also said that. It is so vital, that in the surveys of the population on the concern of the citizenry, on what issues it values well, what issues it values badly, of services and public policies, recently the Deustobarometer has said that pensions, in the evaluation of the Basques, do not exceed 4.3. That is, the Basques and Basques are worried about pensions, and they are not worried about them: they occupy them, and above them they are angry. They are very upset, because the Spanish Government is doing nothing, because the Toledo Pact is neither going forward nor going backwards, because there is nothing, because the chairman of that Monitoring Committee on the Toledo Pact, Mrs Villalobos, has already said what she thinks, and it is not good for state pensioners, but obviously not for Basques and Basques either. And I am concerned here today in this Parliament about Basques and Basques, of course, and I am very concerned. I'm very concerned, Counselor. And I thought you had opened a window at that conference. I'm really telling you, I'm telling you honestly. I thought I'd opened a window, like other times it's happened to me. It seems that it was, outside the walls of this Parliament, you open windows that will then be closed here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u79	Well, it's not my intention to disappoint you, Mrs. Pinedo. Although I run the risk of being repetitive, as repetitive as the cluster of initiatives that the Basque Parliament has carried out over the last few legislatures in relation to the pension and social security system in Euskadi and Spain, and you also know as well as I do, I do not want to end this intervention without clearly recalling the will of the Government to what you ask, which basically links the proper management of social security and pensions, for which you call me, with the reception in Euskadi of the transfer of passive employment policies and the sound management of the economic system of social security in statutory terms. Exactly two years ago Lehendakari himself responded to a Basque parliamentarian in this very forum, referring to the issue before us. Then it was said by the mouth of the lehendakari, and today I maintain it, that "we defend to assume the management of the economic regime of Social Security, within its unitary character and respect for the principle of solidarity, all this through a convention". He also added: "I want to stress that the position I stand for is not only of government, but of the Basque Parliament itself," said the Lehendakari. "It is an institutional demand with legal support and full citizen support." And he ended by pointing out that "Basque Social Security is a guarantee for pensions, and self-government is synonymous with well-being and quality of life. Therefore, in any case, the Basque institutions are ready to take over the management of the economic system of social security. This was agreed in the Statute, it was endorsed by the citizenry and it has been claimed by the Basque Parliament." That was said by the lehendakari, I think in 2015, and I think it has full validity. On the other hand, and in relation to the controversy about the economic viability of the Basque social security system, because of the structural economic problems that they might present, it can only be said that the difficulties that would be encountered by an autonomous system do not differ at all from those which would be suffered by the state system as a whole, and even those which would be suffered by the Basque system in relation to those which would be affected by the current structure of its labour market could be minimized. We have always called for the transfer of management of the economic system of social security. We did it in a time of surplus, and we continue to do so at this time in the time that deficits have been generated as a result of the great recession. In any case, the terms of the transfer must be those of management and within the unitary character of the system, as dictated by the Statute of Gernika, and in any case the signature of a convention, in accordance with the fifth transitional provision of that Statute, by which financial flows must be determined. The economic aspects of benefits, the collaboration between the two administrations and the attribution of responsibilities to each of them should also be supplemented, in accordance with the general scheme of the system. But, in addition to what is contained in the Statute, we believe that management is important, because it can bring important improvements in the coordination of all social protection instruments in the Basque Country and in the promotion of a complementary system of social protection and social foresight, all of which fall into the hands and hands of the Basque administrations. I want to underline this idea: Apart from fulfilling the state of Guernica, we need very much jurisdiction even for the co-ordinations of the tools belonging to the Basque Social Protection, although we have jurisdiction, and, of course, take the place of the State in this management. I think it's clear. Creo que queda bastate claro, señora Pindo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u80	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is that José Ramone Becer with Carollo, a member of the Podemos, made to Ogas and Economics Chief, the future wallet of his industrial involvements." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u81	Egun where you're going. Good morning, counselor. As you know, Kutxabank has a portfolio of industrial holdings that in January 2012 was valued at around 4.6 billion euros and had about 266 participating companies. To this day the valuation must be in half, approximately, more or less. And I would like to say to you: in fulfilment of your Government's obligations and competences, have you transferred to Kutxabank any guidelines on how to manage this portfolio of industrial holdings and how to make the disinvestment required of the European Community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u83	Mr Becerra, giving a direct answer to the question you put in your letter, I must first point out that the Basque Government has not transferred any directives to Kutxabank, nor in relation to the reduction of its holding portfolio, nor in relation to any other matter. In formulating your question, you cite article 3 of the current Euskadi Autonomous Community Savings Fund Act, adopted in 2012, which assigns the Basque Government, among other functions, to oversee the investment management of the boxes and to establish guidelines for social work, in order to guide them to the main needs and priorities. However, in formulating its question it seems to forget the fact that Kutxabank is not a savings bank, so it is difficult, under that article, for the Government to establish guidelines for that entity. Kutxabank is a financial institution, it is a bank created from three Basque savings banks, but it is not a savings bank. I repeat, Kutxanbank is a bank, and it is not the bank of the Basque Government. Regulation and supervision are the responsibility of the European Central Bank and the Bank of Spain, in accordance with the basic rules of the State, derived in large part from the regulations of the European Union. Therefore, the decisions that Kutxabank may take in relation to its industrial portfolio are the responsibility of the governing bodies of that entity, in accordance with the requirements laid down in commercial and financial legislation. And according to the financial law, we're looking at bankings, creating control, and the fusion isn't in the midst of the Eucommy rights. As a matter of fact, M. M. M. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u85	You are right, Mr. Counsellor, that it is not really your mission to control Kutxabank. Yes, of the three boxes owned by Kutxabank, indeed. Perhaps the question is not all that is right, but you know that the three boxes that are owned by Kutxabank in turn have raised the possibility that they will assume part of those industrial shares of Kutxabank, and how that is done and how it is done is very important, and the Basque Government has a role to play, which you need to recognize here. To this day, it would be good to know how many Kutxabank holdings have passed to the foundations, what portfolio of industrial holdings each of the foundations has, what plans Kutxabank actually has for disinvestment... Because it has been said that there are disinvestment plans, even the President of Kutxabank himself mentioned them in some public appearance, and Mrs Tapia has been asked about this subject here a couple of years ago, by EH Bildu, and the reality is that it is still a hidden, opaque information. And the reality is that the Basque Government does have a real competence in – as you have read – overseeing the investment management of the boxes. The boxes are the owners of Kutxabank. Today we find news like this at the end of 2016, where it says: "Kutxa Foundation starts the purchase of industrial shares at Kutxabank with the purchase of 2% of the CAF shares", something that you have then calculated. "BBK will dedicate 100 million to buying shares in local companies." All these are movements that obviously their department, the Basque Government, has to control, has to monitor, and that have a direct connection with the management of the Kutxabank portfolio of industrial holdings. If your government had no jurisdiction, it would not understand why Mr Lehendakari in May 2016, in this headline, appears that "it suggests that part of Kutxabank's stakes will end up in the hands of the boxes." If Mr Urkullu says so, it is because he has to have that information, and if he has that information and has that competence, Mr Urkullu, his point is that the Government, in fact, pursuant to Article 3, has transferred to the boxes the need for them to contribute to increasing the economic and social development of the country. And that means rooting those industrial holdings, of Basque industrial enterprises, rooting them in the banking foundations. So, there is a competition, and that competition has to be exercised in an orderly and transparent manner. And what can't be is that today we have knowledge of the movements that you make, of the purchases of shares of CAF and other companies, that you are considering, not knowing if that is ordered, if that is planned, if that is talked to Kutxabank. Because we are talking about billions of euros and possibly thousands of jobs that are in a situation of uncertainty about it. And, therefore, I would like you to somehow assume that responsibility and that competence that you do have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u86	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u87	Mr. Becerra, in any case, we'd be talking about bank foundations, not boxes. And you also know that the Banking Foundations Act of 2013 was the fruit of a rather intense debate in the Congress of Deputies and, apart from that, a very intense pressure from Europe to make the least effective relationship between policies and financial institutions. With this I believe that both with Kutxabank and with the foundations I believe that we must behave exquisitely from the point of view of the interference of the banks, which, of course, this government does not intend to do in any case. But, as I told you, Kutxabank is a financial entity born from the integration of the three Basque savings banks, an integration that without public aid has proved successful, and without having resented their commitment, their social work, as the banks had. But it is no less true that Kutxabank is a Basque financial institution rooted in our territory and a very useful instrument, in any case, to promote resources in the financial market in favour of our economic fabric, guaranteeing competitive financing that helps the economic and social development of the whole of Basque society and that in turn allows it to obtain the sufficient profits to guarantee the social work of the shareholders, which in this case, as I say, are the BBK, Kutxa and Vital banking foundations. And so, for example, Kutxabank has announced that in 2017 it has reached 3.4 billion euros in financing operations of the companies, 29 % more than in the previous year, adding to the portfolio 800 new customers. And Kutxabank continues to participate and has a vocation of permanence, along with the outlaws and the government itself, in another fund of participations, such as Ekarpen; it also, as you know, participates in Luzaro, and in so many other initiatives in which it collaborates with Basque institutions. The Basque Government will therefore continue to pursue the development of its financial and industrial policies, in which I have no doubt that it will have the cooperation, among others, of Kutxabank, but always without interference and from respect for the will expressed by its governing bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u88	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Antonio Damborenea of Basterrechea of the Basque Groups made by Ogal and Economics Chief of Economics." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, as you know, the new contribution law should have been passed in 2011. We are in the year 2018. I'm not going to blame you, because you're obviously not here since 2011, are you? But that contribution law had to be passed seven years ago. The first excuse we were told was that there were four different governments (three different in the outlaws, and one different in the Basque Government). Then the second excuse they made up was that it was necessary to reach an agreement with the Cup, because that was fundamental. And then the third and final one was that the Municipal Law forced them to do a study. Well, the Municipal Law, which is of the year 2016, has already been in force for two years, the government a year ago pledged that a year ago it would already be that project. In the end there was no agreement, and, well, after all these vicissitudes I already know that you are not responsible, from the year 2011 to the date, for not having this law of contributions, but you are responsible for the Council of Finance and Economics, and you are responsible for having a bill of contributions ever come to this House. And that is why our question, after the many statements of all of you, is whether the councillor thinks that he will be able to bring that bill into this legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u90	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u91	Mr. Damborenea, you know the question is... or the answer, sorry, is yes. It is a priority of this Government, and that is what we have stated. This same Tuesday at the Basque Public Finance Council we committed ourselves to having completed the general report on the competences of the various institutional levels of Euskadi and its financing by 31 May. It is late, yes, but we also said that we wanted to have a good study that would serve us to make a good law, and that that was a priority in the face of having a fast law that does not give sufficient satisfaction to all institutions. The new contribution law will be approved, as we have already made in other declarations, in 2018. Datorren maiatzaren 31rako amaituta egongo da Euskal Autonomia Erkidegoko erakunde maila ezberdinen eskumen proprieei ea finantzaketari buruz egin beharreko azterketa orokorra. Halaber, ekarpenen lege berriria 2018 urtean onartzea I expect da. On the same day, by the way, Mr Damborenea, the Governing Council adopted the agreement by which we approved the annual regulatory plan for this exercise, which, as you can see, includes the preliminary draft of the contribution law. I know that you do not escape that this is not any law, which is a rule that requires a high degree of institutional and political consensus, to which I appeal (if you are willing to support us, I would certainly be delighted), because we are faced with a debate that concerns all the institutional levels of the country. It is a rule that requires a superior trust, both in the institutional and political side, because it is necessary to combine the collection of money to provide public policies, and the power of providing the services of each administration. As I said, the complicated balance must be combined between the financial coverage of the various public policies, defining among all their priorities, and the legitimate aspirations of each administration to have the best funding to cover the services that each of them provides to Basque citizens. It is therefore a matter of drafting and adopting a law with which we all feel comfortable and identified. A law which, at the same time, takes into account the socio-economic characteristics of each territory and also provides a horizon of certainty and stability for the whole of our institutional system. A task that is not easy, as you know, but that our commitment is to be completed by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u92	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u93	I think you're right, Mr. Counselor, because I know you're a believer in this matter, that when I ask you if you think you're going to bring it, you tell me you are. Of course, he also told us last year, and more recently other representatives of previous governments, and that is why the question may be wrong. But I do recognize to you a capacity to come to terms even with that refocusing machine that is Cristóbal Montoro. You have been able to close an agreement on the Cup that we had been in over ten years and that a socialist president and a socialist lehendakari were unable to close. I recognize to you that capacity even to reach agreements with a group like ours, which, in short, are the worst of the worst in the House and the country, and we have managed to reach two budgetary pacts, a fiscal pact... And then maybe that's why I had the wrong question. The question is: Do you think, Mr. Counsellor, that you will be able to reach an agreement with the members of your party who run these outlying institutions?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u94	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u95	I do not know, Mr Damborenea, whether there are two questions at the same speaking time, but, well, suppose so. With my party I have no doubt, Mr Damborenea, that I will reach an agreement. No doubt. Look, from the perspective we are commenting on, and as a counselor, I consider it imperative to insist that the new regulation should continue on the basis of two principles that ultimately are the two sides of the same coin, which are neutrality and financial sufficiency. Neutrality in the sense that no institution is harmed by any changes to the new legislation, and it is not easy. And on the other hand financial sufficiency, so that all Basque institutions have adequate funding for the exercise of our respective powers, which is not easy either. But, well, things are as they are, they are not easy, but of course there is a firm commitment from our party, from my party, from the Basque Nationalist Party, and from the institutions concerned, as can be the municipalities, Eudel, the outlaws and the government, that this be so. The new contribution law will also provide, Mr Damborenea, for the necessary provisions on the basis of the results of the general analysis of own competences and the financing of the various institutional levels, as I have indicated, in this work which will be completed by 31 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u96	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Reformation, Rebeka Ubera Aranz, and EH, made to the head of the Board of Education, about the decision that the Board of Education did not all the people." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u97	Yeah. We all agree that school can't solve all the problems of society, we all agree that school can't face all social challenges, and therefore school itself can't resist the eloquence of the eucalypædic citizens. That's an advanced, rich people who are to be done by a cult, not by Rajoy who's trying to push it, pushing 155 out of Catalonia. So, Mrs. Uriart, watch out for PP's support in your education policy. Careful. We're doing something wrong. We're bankrupting the final evaluation, reports, investigations, and various documents. In fact, the teaching system has left 206,000 students without equivocation when 100% knows the young man. Even in the case of the Euskar's quality, B2 or more, only 43% gets it, and %5 B2 is placed below 57. And besides this, the patterns we have in force are the segregators, they disseminate the students. We're listening and listening to various language tactics in the education system. All of them have definitely rated the evolution they have made, but everyone has remarked that in the past few years we've gone higher, that we've found an evolution and that this evolution has been stabled. And that it's time for education to adapt and change to new times of language. But on the side of the Board of Education, what are we seeing? Although the evaluation has produced bad results, we don't see any political will for that. Although now, in one of those tables on which the government has placed them in this imaginary agreement, as far as language tactics are concerned, she has received a document for change, but yet, hearing the testimony of the chief physician of the Board of Education, it goes in the opposite direction. So, Mrs. Uriart, the Board of Education has decided not all the citizens will do it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u99	Mr. President of Parliament, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mrs. Uber, in a very responsible way in the Board of Education, is responding to the process of normalization of the cradle, and it may be said that education has been the same, and that it is still at this day one of the strongest axiss of the normalization of the cradle. The achievements which school has acquired in view of the normalization of the cradle are undeniable. More than 300,000 people who won the Basques since 1981 have succeeded through two-thirds of their schools. The course of the past 40 years will show that the euscal educational system has been greatly successful in the euscalization of citizens, the generalization of the eloquent examples of B and D. More than 90% of the last course plate was made in the B and D models. The consequence of this is, that at the present day, the 6th, 4th of the young intermediates between 16 and 24 years, a Basque. This percentage would be bigger if you were to consider the underlying 16 years of education. But the development of the educational system and the progress acquired have produced some consequences which must be taken into account in the socilinistic reality of today. One of the essentials is, the multiplicity of the Elefinite perfils of the students, conditioned above all by the manner of their acquisition of eucalyptus, and by the sozy regions of their lives. Euskal school has an important challenge to treat multi-profil students, to ensure the proper capabilities of the eucature, and to help the students to become the active talker of the eucature, of course, with the help of the whole society. Only school, as you say, can't do that, it's the responsibility of the whole community.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u101	Mrs. Orriart, you always have a tendency to leave the ball on other roofs! Do you think it's a careful way of doing so, people, when they can make up their minds to let so many citizens remain silent? Is it to leave the proper language capabilities unrelentingly? Well, we don't think that's a responsible way. When language like ours is reduced to a less culture like ours, we can't allow ourselves to leave the educational systems without erupting the citizens with all that is supposed to be. He has no brains and no legs. Spanish is secure, but not for eus. Equivalence existing language patterns for today. It was the effect of a certain period, and time has changed, we have evolved, and let's stop dissecting students. Let us improve the language-knowledge, use, quality of our people. It's in our hands, but you have to make a decision for it. You have to be ambitious. You have to be brave. And it's time to move the language standard now established to the education system and change it for another. And that's what we're asking you today. And that's why we can guarantee the schools the means of transmissional language, and when education is over, all the students will be assured of perfect language.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera, your time is up. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u103	Lady Ubera, it is necessary to consider that at this day there are more of the students who are received by schools than from home. Out of the Basque family, in general at school, at the generations of young people who have learned to live in groups between sixteen and twenty-four years, of which a large percentage lives in areas where the greatest number of population is very preponderating. This, of course, has direct conclusions in the educational data of the students, in the study of evaluation, and in the results of the other examinations. We have, therefore, different hygienic professionals in our modern education system. It's a very large presence of new mammals. 55.7 has learned from the family to the Basque family, at school, and in many cases in a context rarely used for euca. According to the predictions above mentioned, more than 90% of 20 years of age will be euscalized. But there will be many of these members who are better adapted to agriculture, who have an excellent faculty of understanding, but have limited abilities of production, and who will live in separate and orderly contexts, and consequently have but little opportunity of using them outside the school, if they are at rest in our present circumstances. On the other hand, it is essential that in our schools we should consider the language and the cultivation of culture in recent years. On the one hand, to welcome newcomers in this popular education system, and to integrate these languages and culture into our education system. In the project of language which each school designes, it is essential also to consider this reality, and to start multiple interventions according to all this variety of forms. It is also our complex system, and the elegant system founded on a less language, and the investigation and innovation of its hinges are indispensable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the House of Education, Borja Sémper Basque Company, the Chief of Education."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Counselor, you in relation to non-educational reform likes to speak in a way rather than in substance. So, I'm also going to talk today, just like you, about the way. In the last reply he gave me in attendance in this House, where I asked him about educational reform, he literally said, "What we want is a consensual law, in which everyone is comfortable." A kind of political spa rather than content and deepening in the matter and real reforms. I'm not saying that the spa thing is wrong, this about looking for everyone to be comfortable, but the really important thing is... let's see what your concept of consensus is, counselor. You tell us that to address an educational reform, to bring it to this House, it requires first a consensus with educational agents. All right. What is the consensus of the Counsellor? The basic document – plagued with generalities, on the other hand, but we will talk about this another time – that you have the opportunity to present to Basque society last day 5 is such a consensus document, that you have decided on what you can and can't talk about, you have marked the way to have that interview (that is, you don't talk about the educational model, the public, the concerted, how they are financed..., thorny issues leaves them aside). You have also decided who and what you can talk about in those previous meetings: you have decided that you will talk about modernization, languages, coexistence, centre autonomy and evaluation. Therefore, it is a process, far from consensual, deeply remote-directed. In addition, in case this were not enough, the document presented on day 5 is presented without having been contrasted, or at least since the ignorance of those who had the opportunity to tell you what they thought. They showed up at that meeting, there were cameras and photographers, but they didn't know the content of what you were going to present. You didn't know how you and your department had dealt with what you had had the opportunity to move him. Therefore, the question, counselor, is, in this non-educational reform that you supposedly have in your hands, in which you seek consensus, is that consensus something like an illustrated despotism of "all for educational agents but without educational agents"?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u106	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u107	Well, I don't know what to do, Semper (barkatu, anderea president), because every time he puts one thing on paper he asks another. Last time she asked about the law, when she was asking about... I don't remember what it was anymore, but you asked for the law. Today I was asking about the criteria that are guiding the current educational reform, and I am beginning to ask myself about consensus and a process that, of course, as you do not make a justification of the question, because, of course, we can often hardly speak. I am also surprised that you ask this question. I'm surprised that you're coming to me to talk about consensus... because I don't really know if you're a very good person. In carrying out a participatory process, a process to seek consensus, there are many ways. There are many ways, and this is one of them and it's endorsed. That some may like them more than others? Well, so is he. The same as not all of us agree absolutely on everything. But, of course, this process has been launched, it has a document, it has a participation of forty experts, it has a contrast, and then it is following a process. And really most of the educational agents showed satisfaction. It is a starting point, it is a starting point on which to work, because if something is clear from this Government and this country is that we work from the agreement, we work from the consensus, we work for that participation, that approach to positions. You say what my criteria are, I wondered. I don't know if you answer the criteria or what you want me to answer. My criteria..., I think we made it very clear already since the last legislature what was the way to go and the goal. We start from a plan, the Heziberri plan (which is neither a law nor a curriculum), we start from a plan; we agree with all educational agents an educational-pedagogical model based on European education flows, a plan based on the four pillars of Delors, and then, from there, we build a curriculum and decrees, which were participated by all agents: more than eight hundred contributions. More than eight hundred contributions. Some resumes that, by chance, you turn to us in the state. And also in the part that is most sensitive is, in the part of equity and in the part of inclusiveness. From there, a plan of improvement, and from there we also set in motion to take steps towards a law. A law for which we had a lot of meetings with a lot of agents, who told us what were the principles on which they wanted to build this agreement, a basic agreement, to know exactly what education we want for the future. And we've started this process to build the law. I think we have a clear path. What I don't know is if the same thing happens to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u109	Well, here's the point, Counselor, it's not if I'm clear, that I should be clear. What is relevant is whether you, who are responsible for education in this country, and who govern and have a high responsibility, are clear. And by all accounts, it doesn't look like it. And it is a pity, but it is not a pity for you, for me and for this House, that it is also, but it is a pity for our students and it is a pity for the educational future of this country. That you do nothing, that you live in self-congratulation, is a problem. Of course I was asking you about the criteria of educational reform! What I'm not going to do is ask you how you want me to ask you, and I'm not going to pass you the script of what my question and intervention is in this rostrum. In this you will have to accept what parliamentaryism is. I was asking you about the criteria of educational reform because you say that one of the fundamental criteria is consensus, and I just told you, I just told you that you are not even complying with that word given in this House. You are not seeking consensus, because from the beginning it is a remote-directed process, in which you choose the topics and you direct who and on what topics they are pronounced, and that in addition the conclusions do not draw them a party with whom you initially participated. The question, Madam Counsellor, beyond the form, is what your opinion is. What do you think of education in Euskadi? What criteria do you have as a leader, as a leader, as someone who has to push for educational reform? What do you think of concerted education? What do you think of your future funding? What do you think of English? What do you think of the fact that half of the jobs offered in Euskadi require knowledge of English and our education system does not offer it? What do you think of that lack of equity? Some criterion or opinion you'll have, counselor! At least calm me down in your second intervention!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u110	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u111	Starting with the process, you are totally wrong, because we have talked to all the agents, we have presented you the document, we have told you, and to the people who have participated as well. Everyone is aware and aware of everything that has been done. So, you can't tell me something you don't know. That you don't know it doesn't mean that others don't know it. So there, I'm sorry, I disagree with what you say. In relation to what we think, I think it is very clear what the policy of this government is, what we think. We have a government program that's there on the table. We have a whole series of initiatives that we have been telling you all those times when you have questioned us here. I therefore believe that our position and our defence of education is completely clear. What I am not clear is whether you agree with that policy, which I already know is not. I know you do not agree, starting with what is happening in Madrid itself, which is that really who has us right now in a situation of impasse, or pretends to have us... Because of course we have it so clear that we continue to move forward, continue to work and continue to take all the steps we have to take.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interrelation, made by the members of the United States of the World-Esunai, Torism, Commerce, and Contsumus, the future of Eukadicus Turistis." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u113	Andreak: Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Councilman, I present this question on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party concerning the future of the Basque Tourist Observatory. Observatory that was launched through public society Basquetour, belonging to the Department of Industry, Innovation, Commerce and Tourism of the Basque Government, of the stage of Mr Patxi López. Observatory promoted by the Basque Government in 2011, initiative collected in the Competitiveness and Innovation Plan of Basque Tourism 2010-2013 presented at that time in this House. In this plan, the Government committed itself to developing, promoting and implementing a Basque tourist observatory that acts as a competitive, accessible and reference intelligence system for the Basque tourism sector, seeking its integration into regional, state and international knowledge networks. Euskadi Tourist Observatory as an instrument that helps to respond to information needs, analysis and study of tourism activity, the behaviour of destinations and markets, aimed at facilitating decision-making, and with the participation of the actors involved. And so this observatory has been developing its activity, growing in the analysis of the information generated and shared by users, internal data and external data from other sources. From the point of view of public administrations, it is very important to have an open data strategy that encourages the opening and re-use of public data, so that companies and citizens can make use of such data in the development of certain projects or services. For a tourist destination, the large-scale application of data, big data, is an element of help in decision-making. In this sense, since 2016 Basquetour has launched a competition for maintenance and evaluation services at the Basque Tourist Observatory, and is awarded to Tecnalia in 2016, and also in 2017. And this is how Tecnalia contributes to the development of the Basque Tourist Observatory, obtaining data of value that according to its treatment and analysis help to make strategic decisions and behaviors. It is very important to have orderly, classified and conveniently analyzed information to have a comprehensive and comprehensive view of the environment. In Fitur 2017, for example, Tecnalia participated, within the framework of the Twin Tour (the technological platform of tourism), in the working group of tourist technology centers, to analyze a key technology in the process of transformation of the industry; an innovation present in all sectors and with special impact in the tourism sector, smart data, big data, plus the value it produces in making decisions, and implement actions accordingly with the data we have. Tecnalia participated together with nine other public and private technology centres, which have prepared a document that has analyzed in detail the characteristics of big data and open data, providing success stories that show the use and usefulness of this technology in the sector and in this forum. The Euskadi Tourist Observatory was analyzed as an example of intelligent information management. And, counselor, this is an example of how the observatory has moved into forums of great interest to seek to improve the competitiveness of the sector, to establish alliances and to be able to meet the real needs of the sector. This was the Basque Tourist Observatory in January 2017, but, Mr. Counsellor, I say "it was" because, if today we go to the Basquetour website and in the left window we click on the Basquedi Tourist Observatory, what do we find? Well, we'll find this. [[Shows a photo]] And, counselor, how many months has this been like this? How many months has this been like this? Is this the window we have to show of the work we do and the investment we make of our resources? Counselor, but if we go for another link to the Euskadi Tourist Observatory, we find this for example: "Test subtitle, test-hide, test-hide, test-hide, sample-hide, example-hide". But if we go to the Basque Tourist Observatory, "Studies and publications", we find, the most innovative study, of 2013. Frankly, it is a pity that this image is being given of a very valuable tool, a tool that over a period of time has developed its work successfully, we understand; that in Fatur 2017 it has been an example of a tool valid for the sector. Counselor, what are we going to do with this? Who is holding today, in 2018, the Basque Tourist Observatory? Has a contest been held? What is the future of this working tool going to be, counselor? Do you also have the Euskadi Tourist Observatory during a period of reflection? Because fifteen days ago I was asking him about another tool in his department, with Commerce, and he was telling me he was in a period of reflection. Do you think this Euskadi Tourist Observatory is necessary for the Euskadi tourism sector?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs López de Ocariz, you lately have a tendency to get entangled in the name of things and not to talk about things themselves. He did so two weeks ago about the Euskadi Trade Distribution Observatory, and he does so again today about the Euskadi Tourism Observatory. I'll tell him. The Euskadi Tourist Observatory is an initiative of CIC Tourgune, which you at least mention in the written question but has previously left aside. The CIC Tourgune is created in February 2007, as are others such as the Nanogune or Biogune, with the aim of generating knowledge about tourism. Almost at the same time, Basquetour is created as a Basque Tourist Agency, for promotion and, let's say, to analyze and promote competitiveness in the tourist services of Euskadi, in what seemed to be an intelligent strategy as tourism took off in Euskadi, with two tools that allowed to give support from public management: to give support on the one hand in the actions to promote and improve the competitiveness of tourism in Euskadi, and on the other in the generation of knowledge about tourism. In 2010 the CIC Tourgune proposes a collaboration with Basquetour for the creation of a tourist observatory in Euskadi; a proposal that I know, a serious proposal, a proposal with content, a proposal that is current and well attached to the field at the time it is formulated, and a proposal that is also ambitious: it talked about competitive intelligence, it talked about open innovation and it talked about collective intelligence. And it also started from the analysis of other observatories in Spain and the world. And it was an ambitious proposal that raised three areas of improvement and that also raised an ambitious structure. The areas of improvement were a harmonisation of sources (the small guirigay that exists around the indicators in relation to tourism); two, a visualization and the possibility of allowing dynamic analysis of information, and, third, the inclusion of sources of digital information, which has come to be called big data. And the areas in which it organized that structure of the Basque Tourist Observatory to which you refer were: a statistical area, a tourism area – the one referring to that digital information –, an area of studies and research, and an area of documentation. In 2012, the result of this collaborative approach to the creation of the observatory, an expert position in social research was created in Basquetour, precisely to serve as a link with the needs that Basquetour may pose with the development of research and technological development around this research that is being carried out by CIC Tourgune. The CIC Tourgune not only poses this expert liaison position, but is beginning to develop its system. It develops a regional system of tourist indicators (the SRIT), develops a hotel price monitor, develops a destination website monitor, and initiates the design of several tools around the creation of this Euskadi tourist observatory. That is not, as you have said, a Basquetour tourist observatory, but a Basquetour tourist observatory that develops CIC Tourgune in collaboration with Basquetour. But what happens in 2015? For in 2015 there is a review of the CICs (the cooperative research centers), and one of the ones that closes is this, CIC Tourgune. Therefore, if you close CIC Tourgune and the Euskadi Tourist Observatory is at CIC Tourgune, the Euskadi Tourist Observatory you refer to in your inquiry is no longer there. What remains is, as it were, a pale reflection of the original project of the Basque Tourist Observatory proposed by the CIC Tourgune. What's left of the CIC Tourgune? There's a part of your... Note that this was the complete development of the observatory. [[Shows a photo]] Do you know what's left? There is one part, this small part, which is the automatic load of information from statistical sources. It is a small part not only because it refers only to some indicators, but also because it does not include sources of origin data that included the original SRIT. But, given the department's interest in maintaining at that time – once CIC Tourgune closes – for maintaining a database that was being built by CIC Tourgune, a database around a series of indicators, even if it was more limited than the original model, what is done is to transport the tool built by CIC Tourgune and contract the maintenance of information about that tool. And that's what, with the 2015 closure of CIC Tourgune, has actually done Tecnalia in 2016 and 2017. And it is called the Euskadi Tourist Observatory, but obviously it has nothing to do with this Euskadi Tourist Observatory. Moreover, there is another Euskadi Tourist Observatory, which is referred to by one of the pages you have taught here. The expert person responsible for research who served as a liaison with CIC Tourgune in Basquetour also organizes within Basquetour an area called the Euskadi Tourist Observatory. The two things are different things, but the two get the same name, and neither of the two things is really the ambitious project, and, from my point of view, intelligent and well-conceived of origin, of the CIC Tourgune in 2010. That's what we have, and that's what's left. In addition, there is the one we do from the department on time every time we give information on the statistical data, but the collection, which you said was so interesting, for the maintenance of that observatory, was actually a small part that only included information from the Eustat, the INE, the AENA and the Ports of the State. Of course, the department and I are betting on keeping the intelligence of the market. It is absolutely necessary, in today's environment – not only in tourism, but also of course in tourism – to keep information about the environment, because otherwise, public management simply becomes a kind of blind stick without knowing what environment one moves in. Market intelligence is maintained. We maintain official statistical operations (I told him the other day that this was what justified the creation of the department's statistical body); Ibiltur, Familitur, Frontur, those operations are maintained, and we also include many other studies. But the observatory as such, which does not have to do with what we call today's observatory with the original concept of the Basque Tourist Observatory, does not in fact respond to the demands that can be made at the moment, nor, above all, to the needs that at the present time pose the need for information also in the field of tourism management and also, obviously, for the sector. Indeed, that is what leads me to rethink the issue of the observatory, in order to arrive at a structure that we can effectively call in such a way, as the Basque Tourist Observatory. It is obvious that the approach cannot be as ambitious as that of the CIC Tourgune, because the CIC Tourgune had fifteen people working only for the development of this Basque Tourist Observatory, and obviously I do not count on those fifteen people, but it did not seem to me an option that we would conform to what there was, that we would conform to that Basque Tourist Observatory that does not develop all the potentialities that in the field of search, creation and production of data for tourist management are necessary today. And that is what really leads me to rethink not only this one, but also that of trade, starting from the creation of the statistical body to create, in fact, an observatory that, as I say, deserves such a name. That's my point. Therefore, answering your question, although, I tell you, I cannot maintain an observatory that no longer exists (because that original observatory of CIC Tourgune does not exist), obviously the department's claim is to maintain a market intelligence in the structure of an observatory – which is much more than doing segmented or dispersed studies – to create an observatory structure to feed a source of data that allows the department and the different sectors to have information about the environment in which we move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u116	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u117	Counselor, I'm not talking about appreciation. I'm talking about objective data. Euskadi Tourist Observatory (2011) is born; Mrs. Pilar Zorrilla, Deputy Councillor. The Euskadi Tourist Observatory is being launched. If you're going to Youtube, find the press conference of the moment, on the 28th, I think it was, from September. So, when is she born? In 2011. What was previously planned? Okay. But it is that you in the budgets you present in this House in 2017, which was April, make a gloss of the objectives of the observatory. Of course, since we have several with the same name, you can now tell me that you did not refer to this one, but that you referred to the other, but there is a story of what the observatory has to be, which is what I tell you here, which is the origin of the observatory. Therefore, in 2017, two years after 2015, when you tell me that that had already closed, you make a reference based on the origin, to 2011. Calcated. It is true that the budgets of 2018 reduce, but in the end comes to say that "it drives a management based on knowledge and transformation, innovations of the sector"; "we maintain (...) of the Basque Tourist Observatory". They're still doing the same thing! So, of course, I'm worried that you say... I told you the other day and I tell you now, I fully understand that you want to rethink certain tools. Time goes by, it doesn't go by, everything changes, and I understand that it requires a modification, but you will understand that I can't have, we can't have the image that we're having of the tourism sector on the websites, when it turns out that 70% of those who want to come here do it on the internet, or they look for knowledge on the internet, or they go on the pages. I don't think it's this image, which is pathetic, of having this "in the workshop." Do we have tourism in the workshop? Hey, no. Look, you know what's going on? What I think is that we have a huge and varied wealth of tourist resources, of gastronomy, of nature, of landscape, of culture, of heritage, which are many Basques who work day by day for having the best tourist destination. And that the administrations responsible for tourism promotion have to live up to the circumstances and what the sector demands, and they have to worry about it shining quality. And this is not quality, this is cod. A continuous dip in time. Because I think, if you get there and see that, and you don't like it, close the windows. I mean, but now. We're closing the access. But we've been here for months. And you will have no sin by omission, but you will have it by inaction, that is, by doing nothing. And he also gave us a long time, because he's "replanting." And that rethinking for when is it? It's been a year in the legislature, it's been a year. You'd come here with an election program, you'd have something, some basis to apply, and you're rethinking! Hey, year and a half. He has a year left to rethink something, because then he changes his strategy. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we have many duties and many challenges to face; that we have to progress and involve, or give tourism sustainability and responsibility; be sustainable but be responsible. That growth is not the enemy, the figures are not the enemy. The enemy is inaction, and not to attend to the new duties that tourist promoters have. And I say as an administration, which belongs to us, that we are competent. And that's what we have to do. But this, as you will understand, this cannot happen, and if Monday is, I think it would be a bad job from your department. That is, close these windows; this is for nothing but to give a bad image. Really, I think we have a lot of things to do ahead of us, and you're responsible for this. You're responsible. Don't tell me it's closed, I don't know what... He's responsible, because you know how to see this, and you should have closed the window the next day. At least... But let's not give this image, which is pathetic.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u118	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. López de Ocariz, what you call cod is what you come to ask me to keep. Because when I've stopped inertia, because I want to change it, because I'm going to change it, because I'm actually changing it, it's when you've asked here two questions about the supposed paralysis of the observatory. Simply because I have not been carried away by inertia, because I have looked and seen that it was indeed necessary to change things. I have already told you, I cannot, unfortunately, exercise the same ambition that CIC Tourgune had in 2010 when it proposed it (and that it actually opened in 2011, indeed, but in CIC Tourgune, I insist; check the data), because, as I say, I do not count even fifteen extra workers for that observatory, nor with that budget. But that does not mean that one should not be ambitious and that when it comes to having an observatory, he tries to do, with what he has, everything he can to make sure that we actually have something that he can actually be called an observatory. And I do have an approach. In fact, in the specific case of web pages we have already been working since January, in the change of that web page. Don't worry, it'll change. It'll change that... Nor do you know that the page of the observatory, which you said is so useful but should not have been used, because you do not have a photocopy of it, that the page of Tecnalia, with the data – already told you before – of the INE, the Eustat, the AENA and the Ports of the State, was opened last year, because it was neither accessible, neither for users nor for you if you wanted to check that page. I told him that I do have an approach. I have already told you before that it is not the department's intention or my own to dispense with market intelligence at all, but, at the same time, we cannot settle for what is there. This work needs to be reorganized into something that can actually be called an observatory. For this – I said it the other day and I repeat it now – the first essential step is the creation of the statistical body of the department, which we do not have. The decree is made, the various reports are passed, and we have only one, which is from the Basque Bureau of Statistics. The second step is to diagnose the situation, what are the possibilities of information, what are the relevant data sources, how to prioritize resources, minimize costs, and not duplicate actions, and ultimately set precise and consistent objectives of study and information. And thirdly integrate as much as possible the different areas of the department. Both the optimisation of resources and the non-compartmentalization of information, particularly that derived from our digital footprint, and even more so, in the areas of tourism, trade and consumption, in my opinion, impose the necessary transversality also in the approach of that department's observatory, regardless of the scope of action that each of the directorates may have. Transversality in addressing this work away from schematic, segmented and old visions, very old, Mrs López de Ocariz. As was reflected in the original CIC Tourgune observatory project, in addressing information in this century it is necessary to apply competitive intelligence, open innovation and collective intelligence, and that is what I intend to develop around not a project, but a reality of the department's observatory that effectively meets the objectives not only of producing relevant information, but also of disseminating and reaching the sector, so that the sector can use it in defining its strategies. That's what I don't think is being done in a way that should be right now, and that's why I stopped when I was able to stop. Because the same thing that happened to Ikusmer – and I told him two weeks ago – happened with this very partial maintenance of a very small part of CIC Tourgune's work by Tecnalia; that by 2017 the contract was awarded at the time I entered, and when I was able to act, when I stopped things so as not to let us get carried away by inertia and settle a new model of cash observatory, is when I was able to do it. And that's when you asked questions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u120	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interadectation, written together by the parliamentary members of the group of Podemos to the Chief of Work and Justice, concerning the control of extraordinary hours of business." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u121	Good morning, good afternoon already. Madam Councilwoman, we would like to ask you today about the control and the struggle on the part of your department and the government against overtime, against overtime in companies. As you know, the reality of exploitation in our country is not so different from that of our environment, and in that reality we are faced with an issue that for my parliamentary group is no less, which is the abusive use by companies of overtime as a tool to reduce labour costs, causing serious harm not only to workers, but also to society as a whole. In Euskadi, according to the latest data available to us at least, there are more than 6 million extra hours per year; 6 million extra hours that we know according to reports and investigations, but that are not all that are done, because there are extra hours, most of them illegal, that are not detected but that are done. There is also an upward trend in overtime: in 2016, compared to the previous year, in particular a 36% increase. That is, we think that we are going in the opposite direction, given that we have a declared unemployment rate above 10%. As I said, much of the overtime that is done is illegal and does not fall within the scope of the Workers'Statute. Therefore, we are also faced with a flagrant breach of legality, a breach of legality that develops continuously and intentionally. Continuously and intentionally to save costs. In other words, we are faced with those who deliberately ignore and violate the law to gain self-benefit, causing serious harm to society. If this situation were to take place in an area other than work, it would surely have been much more forceful, but the reality is that in our view there is enormous permissiveness with the question of overtime. And I don't mean just your government and your department, which also: a permissiveness in general. In our view, every effort should be made to ensure that, at the very least, the law is complied with in relation to overtime. The minimum objective of a government and a department of work that wants to defend the interests of the working class and of society as a whole cannot be other than zero permissivity with illegal overtime, but also a specific struggle against this practice of reducing labor by working overtime. Overtime, in the first place, is a precariousness of working conditions and the quality of life of women workers, in practice it is the lengthening of working hours, which affects their own physical and mental health. They are overtime hours that in most cases are required. And I say forced because, although they are legally voluntary and many workers do so by saying that we do them voluntarily, they are actually done by obligation. Obligation that often comes undercover as a volunteer, because the worker says yes, that he is willing to do so, but the reality is that he accepts for different obligations: for fear of losing his job if he does not do it; for fear of being pointed out and badly seen by bosses and even by companions; for economic necessity in the face of insufficient wages, or simply for responsibility, because many workers know that if we do not do those hours we will not do the work, with negative consequences for the company itself and for third parties as customers, etc. And, therefore, in those cases it is also hours that are not actually voluntary. Secondly, overtime is an obstacle to a society in which care and the sustainability of decent living have a relevant place. Extra hours are an obstacle to conciliation, extend working hours and reduce time for family care. People who work overtime have greater difficulty in devoting sufficient time and responding to the needs of the family. They are an obstacle to co-responsibility: women, men, businesses and the State should share the responsibility of caring for dependent people living in our society (children, children, adolescents, adults, persons with functional diversity or temporarily dependent on illness, accident, etc.). A co-responsible company, in our opinion, is one that, among many other things, promotes hours that allow us to devote time to life and family care. Therefore, when a company sets overtime, it is attacking equality between women and men, it is attacking conciliation, co-responsibility and a more respectful society with the sustainability of life for all. Overtime is an obstacle to equality between men and women and to reducing the wage gap in the labour market. Because of the sexual division of labour, it is generally men who usually take overtime, so there is less time for family care and, therefore, the burden of responsibility for care continues to fall on women. When overtime is used for workers to demonstrate their availability and commitment to the company and their professional career, women who refuse are stigmatized or not taken into account to make a career in the company; they are the cause of the so-called glass ceiling and wage gap. Thirdly, overtime has negative consequences for the working class as a whole, because its realization prevents the creation of thousands of jobs each year. According to some studies, at least six million jobs are no longer created in Euskadi. [[sic]] per year due to existing overtime. It is cheaper for companies to extend the days of those who are already in the workforce than to make new contracts, generating an unacceptable situation, where thousands of workers are forced to work above their ordinary days, with consequences, as I said, for their health, while thousands of workers do not access jobs they seek. This is a contradiction that the Government has an obligation to resolve if it is to have a more just and socially equitable society. In our view, this should therefore be at the top of the priorities of the Department of Labour that you lead, Mrs San José. The Government has to be a guarantor of the distribution of employment, a matter which is unfortunately hardly discussed. Fourthly, we would like to point out that a significant part of the overtime is not declared and, therefore, is not quoted. This, in addition to being illegal, entails a real massive fraud against Social Security, which results in the loss of resources for unemployment benefits and disability benefits, but above all a loss for the pension fund. At the moment there is an important mobilization driven by pensioners and retirees in defense of our pensions. Well, we think that if we allow overtime, and in a special way those that are not declared, we are allowing a new element more of a loss of public pensions. If, on the contrary, the government declares – and we want to ask you to do so – war without any control over such practices, we will also be able to increase the income for our pensions. In short, there are several reasons (not all, but several reasons), in our view of great weight, for the Government, and the Department of Labour in particular, to put on the piles and conjure themselves up to achieve a real change in the rationalization of working hours and in the search for an overtime-free society. The reality at the moment is that overtime is completely normalized in our autonomous community, and from our group we think that the Government and its department could play a key role in putting an end to this situation if proposed. That's why we're asking him this question. I ask you directly, Counsellor, whether you and, with you, your department and the government to which you belong are prepared to start a political war against a practice that harms the working class, pensioners and the whole of society, and only benefits a few. Our question, our question, is whether they are prepared to start this political war, or, on the contrary, whether it seems sufficient to them what is being done so far and that, in our opinion, it is clearly insufficient to tackle the problems caused by the realization of overtime, which, as I say, are very normalized in our society. What is being done so far, in our opinion, I say, is completely inadequate. There are investigations, there are proceedings, there are complaints, yes, but we believe that much more decisive action is needed with political impetus. We also believe that we are – gathering your words – at the best time to do so. You have pulled out the chest – I do not come to recriminate that, but you have pulled out the chest – saying that at the moment Labour Inspectorate has the broadest staff that has ever been in Euskadi in our entire history. Therefore, if this is so, we think we are at the best moment, and that is why we are questioning you and asking you to declare war without barracks to this kind of practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u122	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mr Hernández, you raise a very important issue, which affects a large number of workers in our country and which has a special impact on young people and women. Believe me, Your Honor, I share your concern about this matter, and I hope that we can also agree on the proposals to resolve it. We will agree with you and I that the explanation for the increase in overtime, its uncontrollability and even the existence of uncomputed and therefore unremunerated hours is in the deregulation of the labour market which has led to the labour reforms of the successive governments of the People's Party. As you well know, the Royal Decree-Law 3/2012 of 10 February, on labour market reform, was a severe blow to collective bargaining. From that point on, employers have a great capacity to set working conditions, including the setting of working time. The reality is that the part-time contract, designed, inter alia, for the generation of more jobs and to give workers the opportunity to reconcile work and family life, has become an opportunity for some entrepreneurs to commit fraud and, in fact, become a part-time contract in an undercover full-time job. It was another royal decree-law, on 16/2013, of 20 December, that articulated ways to increase overtime, both agreed and voluntary. All of this, combined with the discretion of the entrepreneur for the realization of the times for the realization of the day, has caused the part-time contract to lose its meaning. The conclusion of all this is that overtime becomes an extended practice, with an uncontrolled and, in cases, unpaid overtime. The consequence for workers is that working conditions are degraded, while social security is disappointed when the corresponding contributions are no longer paid. You said that in your diagnosis. In order to control this situation and to repair the damage caused to labour rights, we will agree that it is necessary to require a time register that allows for the control of overtime performed by each worker. This obligation is not clearly reflected in labour legislation. The Workers'Statute, in its article 35, which refers to overtime, establishes the obligation to register it, but article 34 does not include it for the day. This situation has been further complicated by the recent Supreme Court ruling, which absolves Bankia to carry out the hourly control of its workers, relying precisely on article 35 of the Workers' Statute. The need to amend the basic law, which is the Workers'Statute, is immediately apparent from this situation. To take the necessary measures to ensure the registration of all workers, regardless of the contractual modality, I think it is a good measure to control overtime. Another may be the regulation of the part-time contract, so that it is true of its nature and does not allow fraudulent use. Steps can also be taken to review sanctions for non-compliance with time obligations. You will admit, Mr Hernández, that the area in which these purposes can be achieved is not that of the Autonomous Community. The legislative changes have to be made in the Congress of Deputies, and some will require consensus among the social actors. Be assured that I share your concern about this matter and the willingness to pursue these policy changes. And this concern extends to the whole Basque Government. For my part, I consider some initiatives being taken in Congress to be very positive. As you well know, the Socialist Party has promoted two non-law propositions that were then fucked by the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea group and which related to the matter that you brought to this House today. The two were approved, one in full and the other in the Committee on Employment and Social Security, and they called on the Spanish Government to make the regulatory changes and to promote measures that would achieve effective control of the working hours of all workers, and the reform of part-time contracts, among others. However, given the non-binding nature of these non-legislative proposals for the Government, the proposals of the parliamentary majority are not achieving the desired success. Therefore, on the initiative of the PSOE, a proposal for a law was submitted on 13 June 2017 to amend article 34 of the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October, approving the consolidated text of the Act on the Status of Workers, to include the obligation to register daily, including the specific time of entry and exit for each worker. This proposal for a law has been accepted and is currently being amended. I hope that it will be adopted as soon as possible, and in this way we can count on an effective tool throughout the State to combat contract fraud and uncontrolled overtime. So far I have referred to what I think is fundamental to achieving the objective that you and I are pursuing, but now I will detail the actions that we are implementing within our remit from the Department of Labour and Justice. To deal with the issue we are dealing with, we have two essential instruments in the Autonomous Community: one is the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, and the other is collective bargaining. In the reply I have given to Mrs Sánchez, I have already provided some information on the activities of the inspection that depends on our department, and one of the subjects in which the Labour Inspectorate deploys its activity is that of labour relations. Well, of them, those aimed especially at the control of working time have been, during 2017, 572, almost 8% more than in 2016. On the other hand, you are aware of our intention to make an additional effort to review temporary and part-time contracts, and the results in this campaign cannot be more encouraging: of the 15,000 contracts revised during 2017, about 2,000, exactly 1,979 (13%) were either temporary contracts and have been transformed into indefinite contracts, or were part-time contracts and have been increased as a result of the inspection. I hope you will participate with me in the positive of this data, and I can also assure you that this line will be constant throughout the entire legislature. The planned action of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate through part-time recruitment and day control campaigns has been enhanced from the department and will continue to be so, without prejudice to the priority attention given to all complaints by trade union organizations or workers in these aspects of the employment relationship. The other way forward is to promote collective bargaining. You have heard me say on several occasions that the labour reforms of the governments of the People's Party are mediating collective bargaining at the general level, but I think there is room for strengthening it. Collective bargaining depends essentially on the will of the parties, employers and workers' representatives, and the collective agreement must be the scope that gives safety to the worker, in which all circumstances affecting his or her working life must be taken into account, not only wage conditions. The agreement is a perfect arrangement so that, as long as this proposal for a law, which I mentioned earlier, is not adopted, the working day can be registered and realized if the parties so agree. To conclude with this turn, Mr Hernández, we have before us an important challenge, which requires the competition and the sum of actions at different levels. I am sure that from the Department of Labour and Justice we will work with those who are willing to reach an agreement, and determination to put an end to the problem of labour fraud and excessive overtime.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u124	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u125	Yes, thank you very much, counselor. Well, I'm not here to ask you to do things that aren't within your jurisdiction. We already know that in the Congress of Deputies the initiatives to which you have referred are being made to maintain, to establish the mandatory control of the days, but what we are interested in, and I understand that you should be interested, is what you can do with the tools you have right now. I am glad that you have acknowledged that the problem of overtime is a very important problem and a real problem, because the truth is that, as I said in my previous speech, it is an absolute illegality that is committed daily in a multitude of companies in our autonomous community. And so I believe that the tool to which you have referred, which is the Labour Inspectorate, is the one that must have a fundamental role in our community, and that is why I was asking you if you are willing to declare war on this kind of practice. Because collective bargaining, in fact, is an important tool, but, in addition to the fact that we now know the difficulties of collective bargaining, because of the position that the employer maintains in the face of the labour reforms that you have mentioned, that they place it in a form position, that allows it to be comfortable and, therefore, that it achieves that there is no progress in labour relations, in a sense of defending the rights of workers – and this would be one of them –, in addition to that situation of paralysis of labour relations, with collective agreements, even though they take up the question of the non-performance of overtime, or its limitation, the problem that we find ourselves is non-compliance. I'm referring to non-compliance. So, if I used to refer to illegal overtime, collective bargaining will also be regulated when they are, and so are they when they are. There are many conventions that deal with this issue, but in the daily practice of companies they are done, and I believe that Labour Inspectorate can do more work with respect to overtime. I do not have the data in my head; I have not come to question you about what you have done this year or what you have done in 2016, but to ask you face to face with the future, about what you are going to do, because we understand that what is being done is not enough. It's not enough. I am not saying that it is wrong, but it is not enough, in view of the fact that the realization of overtime in companies is absolutely normalized. It seems very good to us that you are making a campaign to review the employment contracts. We know they've detected a lot of irregularities. You knew that, that you were going to detect them, before launching the campaign, because the contract for works is in law fraud in 96% of the cases. That is what any trade unionist knows, and what happens is that, since there is no complaint and no investigation, as, normally, until there is no dismissal, a false dismissal, because they should not actually be construction contracts, because they have a causality and are not made for that, because they are not detected. So, it's okay for us to do these campaigns, but detecting those types of contracts isn't going to be the fundamental tool to end overtime. It's good for us that you do that campaign, but I was coming today to ask you about overtime. We believe that, if you have the greatest staff at present in the Labour Inspectorate, you should also make a campaign to pursue overtime. Because they're not openly pursued. Look, I'm going to give you an example, because there are tools beyond the law. There is a specific sector, which I know very well, which is transport. Indeed, there is no obligation to collect overtime, no registration, it is not mandatory, but truckers have an advantage in this regard: they are obliged, by traffic laws in this case, to wear a tachograph, a tachograph that records the hours they work. That is a tool to pursue an overtime fraud that is, for example, in this sector, and that is a tool that should be used and that has never been used, and that has always been claimed. Therefore, we think that Labour Inspection has sufficient tools. Of course we have to change the legislation, of course we have to push back the labour reform, that of the People's Party, and – I am not going to say that I am sorry to say, because that is what I think – also that of the Socialist Party, which was also regressive and opened the doors to that of the People's Party. But as long as that happens, and as long as some of us are in that fight, we also think that your department has a chance to fight this particular issue, which is an abnormality and illegality, with serious consequences, which is absolutely normalized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. To answer, Mrs. San José.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u127	Mr Hernández, as I said before, the best solution lies in the regulatory changes to which I have referred. And I think it is necessary to appeal to the responsibility of all the political parties that have expressed themselves against this labour reform to agree, so that the legislative proposal in progress, at the parliamentary stage, can be successfully adopted. Be assured, Your Honor, that we will continue to repeat the planned campaigns of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate so that irregularities can be detected and corrected. Our efforts will not fail to try to review all the issues on which we believe there can be fraud and correct them. We are also aware that there are more vulnerable groups, and that denunciation – let's say – ordinary, directly by the worker himself or by trade union organizations, sometimes has difficulty in achieving it. And they know that we have an anti-work fraud mailbox that facilitates this anonymous complaint that can then be investigated by the Labour Inspectorate. We also know that there are productive sectors – and you have pointed out some – that by special characteristics, or by the characteristics of subcontracting, can lead to more anomalous situations. As I told Mrs Sánchez in my first speech today, the priorities in the Labour Inspectorate campaigns will focus on areas where we see violations, such as the feminized sectors. The aim is, for our part, to overcome the wage gap and to overcome the irregularities of part-time contracts, whose impact on overtime..., I have already commented in my first intervention that they have an impact. I reiterate to you our commitment to tackle any situation that contravenes the laws, and we will continue to act in a planned and decisive manner, reaching, with all the means we have and have at our disposal, the largest number of companies in our community. We are overcoming the economic crisis we have been experiencing since 2007, but economic recovery cannot be at the expense of devaluing working conditions. Economic growth must come with improved wages, better and more stable contracts, and that the wage gap should already disappear. To achieve these objectives, collective bargaining is essential, and in the Department of Labour and Justice we are determined that this interprofessional agreement signed on January 17, 2017 between the most representative organizations and Confebask will bear fruit. As I said before, the Government does not agree on the agreements, but we urge the parties to agree that there should be more and more workers every day supported by agreements establishing and making clear all these issues, which we say, as they are in the air, so in the end they bring problems. It is our wish that people working in SMEs and micro-enterprises can benefit from the guarantees offered by an agreement, and that is why we believe that sectoral and territorial companies are more effective. On the other hand, working time and overtime affect another aspect of the problem, which we have commented on, which is the reconciliation of work and family life. Within the competences of the Department of Labour and Justice are those relating to corporate social responsibility; therefore, we will set ourselves as a priority objective to encourage that collective agreements should specify the timetables and that they should be recorded in a compulsory manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-16.u128	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one-fifteen in the afternoon.
