ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the fifth point in the subject list will be discussed in the second place, and the second point in the fifth place. Apart from this, I inform you that the fourth point has been left for another. First point in theme list: "The understanding of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, made on the state of compatibility of the Mayors of Central Administration candidates. The controversy and final deliberation of the Constitution, and the design of the members of that council, may be so. Some member of the board for the judgment? No. Some group? We just voted the resolution of the union committee. You don't have people, but... Should I call again? No, right? Well, we voted. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes are 68; the supporters 68; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; abstensions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u1	So the judgment has been accepted. After we've approved our judgment, we'll proceed to the procedure of naming the members of the Basque Radio Radio-Telelist organization. According to the article set by Article 234.6 of the Eusual Act, each member of the legislature has five-minute shifts. According to Article 86.3.b of the Rule, the selection will be made by cards. However, considering other precedents and no alternative candidates, I propose to make the nomination without vote. If any member of the legislature says nothing, we will accept them unanimously, without vote. Begoña Conde Álvarez, and Mrs. Amaya Fernández, Angulo, radio opera, members of the local Administration Council. Five point in theme list: "Punciation of the parlamental team, the whole Union, in order to illustrate the spread of irregularity detected in the political and personal policy, as to the production of a special method of inquiry. Discipline and final resolution. We're next to the proposed team, representing the EH Group. Ms. Ubera, it's yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u2	Mr. Darpón. Good morning, everyone. Well, it's one thing that the Health Department should do or should do as an executive; it's another way of doing what the Attorney General ought to do or is already doing, and the third is, for our public responsibility, what we have to do and what we have to do and what we have to do, our duty. The three paths are necessary and the three paths are supplementary. And in that sense, the Basque People are convinced that they will not escape their engagement. As a representative of a portion of society, as far as he can, and with all his will, he will employ all the powers and resources which are in his hands, and which the legislature gives him, to penetrate into the transparency of the institutions, to resist fraud, to help, to interfere, to commit himself to irregular practices, to prevent the door. In fine, to ensure the general interest of the people and to remove the "qué hay de lo mío," to make the institutions exemplary, and the public system, and the parliamentary, and the fun, and the Ossar. And that's why today we've brought the demand to create a subsidy investigation, the proposal: To illustrate what had occurred in the public offer of the establishments, the model of organization, which had been enabled by irregularity to correct the deficiencies of the same system, the frame, the game-ground, and, of course, to determine the political cares which may arise from these irregularities. In short, to end the sphere of impunity. We have decided to go on with the demand of a committee of inquiry, in order not to guarantee the event again. Aurreko batan esan nuen bezala, and as it is said in Spanish, in the resolutions of conflicts in terms of general policy, the three errors are usually referred to, which in this concept are also valid: recognition, reparation and guarantees for non-repetition. And, frankly, we believe, or would say, that we are still at the forefront and that the Government has been forced to recognize, even if it has done so half-way. Mr Darpón, it's not about looking for culprits, it's not about rolling heads, it's not about exchanging chromes, it's not about makeup, it's not about threats, it's not about blackmail. It's not about that. It is about clarifying what has happened, going to the root and taking steps to ensure that this does not happen again. That's what this is about. As we have already stated from the beginning, François and Time gave us reason; here the question and doubting is not only the model of the public offering, but here the question is the policy of the human resources of Osar, which is questionable and questionable here is the organization of the system of the Osar. It's the same system, that's the question. And it is a clear example of this, that when the trial of the public offering blew out, everyone came to us and said: "Well, but this has always been, it's always been, it's always been." So what's clear is that what's common is that we'll have to change what's inserted into the system, right? And another example is that before Mr. Darpón, in the 30th of May, began with the whole transmitation of the public offers, there was a very significant statement: "Quuero unas OPE limpias." Then why does a chief physician say that in a meeting? So we have to change the frame that makes this function possible. We have to change the frame. And this necessarily requires the change of the policy of human resources, which requires the force of stability, the adjustment, the reduction of free appointment, demands the change of the model of the organization of services, demands the change of the model of the public offering, demands that the stroke be clear; it requires a machine measure, which is additional, and all necessary. For here we stand in front of a complex polyedero with many spikes, which requires many measures, various and additional measures, all necessary, and not a face-cleaning. We don't need a facewash here to remain the same, and to allow and guarantee the public model of the built-in system and the offer. No. Mr. Darpón, as I said on a committee, I'm sure it won't be fair. Not near. It won't be fair to get into your hands the way it's always done and the usual way, in your legislation, to blow you up. But you know what's sad? The counselors who have hitherto been, knowing what they were doing, to guarantee and authorize all these things. That's the saddest thing to do, and that's not to be responsible. So, Mr. Darpón, this government has an opportunity to change what has been customary, it has a chance to change another functionary and jump into a better one. We know it's not going to be easy, and we know it's not all in our hands or the government's hands or the health department, but we think it's worth trying, and that it's our duty, our public care and political responsibility. Today, this government, the Health Department, Mr. Darpón, has another chance. And the sects that support this government ought to make use of that opportunity, and to vote for the committee, should protect the demand to create an inquiry. We know that the committees that can be organized in the legislature have their limitations, as all the frontiers have their boundaries, but we think we must try. If not, our discourses, words, revelations are left in empty words... There's nothing left but empty words. For transparency, against fraud, against corruption... What remains of what expressions are made? There's no credibility. What message do we deliver to the people? And what is the image of organizations and politicians at the moment that the people have? Normal, then, with regard to the politics and institutions of the people, what we do (excuse us, we are not all the same, we are not all the same). Say one thing and do the other. And then what message is delivered? The message does not only speak to words, the message is done with actions and consistencys, and I think we have a lot to improve and do. That's why everyone in this house, today, should take the opportunity of conducting politics in our organizations to set up another culture for politics. "EH Collect has acted responsibilities: This proposal was registered in July, but we didn't get it until today. Why didn't we bring him here so far? The health department asked time to explain, to take measures. We gave it to him and gave him time. We've given him time to take action, we've given him time to take measures. In addition, we also put a proposition on the table, ready to rethink the proposition in conformity with the proper and precise answers. Because our purpose is not to mess up (we want a solution), and because even the staff of the Osacists have asked us to do this (this is a way of not staying on the media, with the headlines and the confusion of the places). We need a solution and we need it. And above all, what we need is not to take measures to prevent it from happening again. But what happened? Well, actually, we haven't seen any wishes for it in the government. And maybe we're lawyers, we're going to have our perception, but the will is seen in enterprises and is opposed to enterprises, and in the undertakings we've seen so far, we've not opposed that will. Where haven't we seen him? Well, for starters, in Cardiology. In the course of the examination, Osabaza had been warned of the intention of making a leak, and had been asked to take precautions, and there was a meeting with the boarders. The Osaderie looked the other way. And do you know when Osace began to move? When the subject blew up on the media. Even when we discussed this whole meeting in the legislature, the groups voted against the question of changing the policy of human resources. They are therefore willing to maintain the field of games, of impunity, and to maintain the field of game of immunity. The first reaction of this government was a denial and a denial. Yet it is still there: Yes, but no. But at last, on account of the psychothetric examinations and the pressure of these agents, he saw himself obliged to move and to accept. At first he opened the investigation into three specialities (he later saw himself obliged to open the investigation to several specialities, though afterwards he closed the investigations). Then he resolved to repeat his examinations (with the same tribunals which ought to be examined by one means! but, at last, because of the pressure and the initiative we took, our examinations have not yet been repeated. The Grand Director of Hosts has been obliged to let him take care of himself, although they still took part in the trial and are still in charge of the officials who were leading him. We don't know how long. The same parameters have been used to repeat some tests, not to repeat others. The same parameters were used to open some research, not to open others... Even when we made proposals to insert changes into human resources, the government voted against it (after the report of Asensio we made to the government too.) And, in conclusion, the will and conduct of the Government are also revealed in the full correction of the demand for the production of our present inquiry. At the first point, the responsibilities are transferred to the judicial road, leaving the politicians aside. And at the second point, confirming the initial attitude, the application of the public is confined to the change of cultivation and not to the change of function and arrangement for members of the community. So he doesn't want to change the game-field that makes a field of impunity. Let every one, therefore, proceed from the political and public care which he thinks fit. This is our proposition. But I'd like to give you one last argument to finish this round: in the institutions, in politics, we have a lot of important work to do, we do a lot of business, some of the many of the different levels have a higher level, some of them are more obituary, even among them, we're in the budget at this time, aren't we? , important matter, but, look at it, even at this moment, and not at this moment, but especially politics, especially because of the image of institutions, budgets, or other political undertakings, more important, more important, more important, such enterprises as this, that of the committee of inquiry, corruption, irregularity, and inability to act consistently and consistently. They're very important. Rethink, think about it. It seems to me that today is a fine opportunity, an excellent one, even the Basques to change the image of their institutions, of their authorities. And that's in everybody's hands.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. As there is no correction, we begin first with Mrs Garrido, the representative of the Basque Potion. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments (the President is gone). I imagine that you will also have important issues, above all to tie the last fringes in the budget negotiation, which you will consider more important at the moment, since you have gone out with Mr Azpiazu, than to be in the debate on whether or not to set up a committee of inquiry on the irregularities of the OPE 2016-2017 in Osakidetza. I hope, Mr Erkoreka, that some appeal I am going to address directly to the lehendakari, then you will move it faithfully to the words I am going to say. The facts we have known, especially in the last few months, show a very poor management of both the Department of Health and Osakidetza. That is why this group, the People's Group, has put forward numerous initiatives over the course of all these months, with the aim of clarifying them and assuming the corresponding responsibilities. The events that have questioned the actions of those responsible for both the Department of Health and Osakidetza have to do with the irregularities of the OPE of Osakidetza 2016-2017, and with some other issues also known recently, such as the resignation of the Director of Emergency Management or the termination of the Director of Public Health, among the most significant. In relation to the irregularities of the OPE of Osakidetza 2016-2017, this group has censored on numerous occasions, and today we do so again in this rostrum, the attitude of those responsible for public health, who first tried to hide them, then minimize them and then try, quickly, to give folder. These facts must therefore be described as very serious, and they must be given the relevance they deserve, because they certainly show that things have not been done well, rather quite the opposite. It must be said that we are facing a real scandal in the management of this Government, in a matter which affects thousands of citizens and which has also affected the credibility of the system itself because of the mismanagement of its officials. It should be remembered that this OPE is the second largest in history, to which more than 96,000 people have submitted themselves. I would like to take this opportunity, once again, to express my solidarity with all the opponents who have presented themselves to this public call, who have studied, worked hard and who have seen their expectations frustrated, their options to get a job in the air. And I also want to send a message of support to all the excellent professionals in the Basque health system, who carry out an excellent job every day and who make us have a system highly valued by all Basque citizens. I have to say and reiterate again that this group is not going to allow the system to be questioned by some people and some officials and the honorability of all those who have acted correctly. This implies that the Group of the European People's Party should be relentless with anyone who has not acted correctly, simply because there can be no feeling of impunity in the face of any improper action so that there is some shadow of doubt about the system. The possibility of any shadow of doubt remaining over the system must be eliminated. All the information analysed confirms the existence of obvious signs of irregularities or, rather, of leaks in some of the tests carried out. This is corroborated by the information analysed and the findings of the investigations carried out. It has been found that those approved in some tests (and I am not only referring to medical specialties) are very grouped, at a certain distance from the rest, many are from the same centers and in the orbit of the person who has performed the tests. She, as all honourable Members know, like the various media that have followed up on this matter, has repeatedly asked about a number of issues relating to this OPE: Who has provided the list of people who have taken the IVAP exams? The former director of Osakidetza, Ms. Múgica, has been directly questioned on this issue because she is the most responsible of the body that provides the list of experts who have carried out the examinations. And I have to remember, and regret again, that this question has never been answered by the respondent. Why have the courts been protected in some of their decisions? From whom does the decision to protect the courts start, especially in the recommendations made even in writing on the repetition of examinations? Why have sovereign organs not been allowed to act as such by the courts? Why have some persons who have taken the examinations at the same time been part of the courts and even this circumstance was not known to the rest of the members of the court? Why have only eight investigation files been opened to date – four initially, four later – when doubts about possible leaks are subject to further testing? What has been the motivation for opening some disciplinary files? Why do some, and in other cases not, seemingly more serious and with greater evidence, not to open disciplinary files in these cases? This group, seeing the development of the events and especially the lack of self-criticism for a very poor management by those responsible for Basque public health, decided to present an inquiry on the health advisor's intention to carry out some reflection and assume some responsibility for the irregularities of the 2016-2017 OPE detected. As you all know, and as it is not the response of this group's liking, the corresponding motion was tabled on Tuesday 30 November, urging the assumption of specific political responsibilities in the person of the Director General of Osakidetza. We wanted – and we have always wanted – to exercise our work of opposition and control over this government with consistency and seriousness, and with the responsibility and mandate that citizens have given us when they are represented in this House. On the 15th we met the cessation of the director of Osakidetza, Mrs. Múgica. With the cessation of Osakidetza's senior manager, the Health Adviser and Lehendakari himself acknowledged that the situation generated around the role of the Osakidetza Directorate, mainly in the development of the OPE and the management of the irregularities detected, was clearly unsustainable. The Group of the European People's Party has stated, and reiterates, that this cessation must inexcusably open a new stage leading to a radical change in the management of that public body. It is your opportunity, and let us hope that you will be aware of it and not miss it, because, if not, we will find ourselves under an obligation to present new initiatives in this House and to make new requests. The initiative to set up a committee of inquiry from the EH Bildu group was presented at the end of July and has now been activated, five months later, to be debated today in this plenary, and not over the previous months. In any case, the proposing group will have (or will have had) its motivations to include it on the agenda of today's plenary, where we will also discuss the Podemos motion in which we intend to reproach the Health Adviser for his inefficient management and irresponsible action in this crisis. At this moment, as you all know, apart from the cessation of the director of Osakidetza, investigations are being carried out in the Ararteko and in the area of the Prosecutor's Office, where numerous people are being called to testify (including the former director of Osakidetza herself, who has already declared). For the time being, we consider it appropriate to await the course of the investigations and their conclusions in order to take further decisions. We also understand that with the cessation of the director of Osakidetza, the management of this body and of the Human Resources Directorate will be radically changed. In this waiting time we meet. Mr Councilman, maximum responsibility for Basque health; Mr Lehendakari, as the lehendakari of all Basques and maximum responsibility for this government (and I regret that you are not here), know you have a problem. They have already tried to stop him by taking the decision to cease the director of Osakidetza, at the request of the People's Group. I hope you are aware of your opportunity and do not miss it. It's in his hand. That is why this group announces that we will abstain in the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry tabled this morning by the EH Bildu group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u5	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u6	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Good morning, Mr. Darpón. The initiative that today brings us EH Bildu is one more of a series of initiatives that respond to the situation that has been generated in Osakidetza from the last OPEs. We have discussed this point, many times and many days; we have heard Councillor Darpón appear in committee to explain, to present an initial study, and the last time to put on the table a working document open to debate, work and input from the various parliamentary groups. There is a work that has only just begun and that has as its final object that there will be no repetition of situations such as those that have happened around the last oppositions. I believe that we all agree on this objective. The possibility of approving the setting up of a commission of inquiry has been on the table since the first day this situation is over. It is a possibility that has been put into practice in this Parliament many times. But, respecting, of course, the position of the proposed parliamentary group, EH Bildu, from the Socialist Group, we believe that in this case the procedure that has been carried out has been different. We have come to this debate with a clear position, with the same position that we have maintained since the first suspicion of irregularities was made known last June, which led us to support a unanimous position of this House in seven out of eight points on what should be done and what we reiterated in the general policy plenary and, of course, in which we ratified today. We understand that we should not play with the future of so many people who have prepared to access a job, we are not going to play with the questioning of this admired public service far from our borders, because what is at stake is much more than what we can translate into a political discourse that will then pass on to the session paper. We are not going to play to generalize or accuse without data, and we are not going to play to excuse anyone (we have never done it and, of course, we are not going to do it now). We understand that it has not been looked at elsewhere: the matter has been put forward, discussed, discussed and we hope that we will conclude by agreeing among all the documents that the Government proposes as a starting point for the future. The Government has been fulfilling each of the requirements that this House has set out, has been explaining each of the steps to be taken, has participated in a joint manner with those who have prepared the documents to deal with the matter (even these people have participated in the parliamentary committees). We hope to resolve the matter of urgency and that all necessary measures will be taken to ensure that there is no slightest suspicion of the cleaning up of this or any other call for employment. The guarantee of equal opportunities for those who submit to a review is assumed and, of course, must be a guaranteed requirement. This Parliament agreed on a road map, and in that road map, which is being implemented, there is a concrete proposal open to all parliamentary groups in this House, to trade union groups, to health groups who want to do so, to ensure that the next tests, already committed, are carried out with the utmost rigour, cleanliness and safety. This is the task we are asking for and to which we have committed ourselves in this House. The Socialist Group is going to continue its efforts: as a matter of urgency, it can continue to call for job offers without risk of suspicion. We understand that this is not running away from our political responsibility and, of course, we do not agree to be partners in any friendly fraud. In that urgency it is not today today We defend the need for transparency, the obligation to inform citizens, the need to work to avoid situations like these. In this case, we do not see the need for a committee of inquiry, which, as is often the case and as has happened in some situations in this House, ends up being judicialised in Parliament what is already in the Office of the Prosecutor. It is difficult for my group to understand what reasons are different today from those of the last five months to avoid this initiative and when this work is open that commits us all to ensuring the cleanliness in future calls. In any case, it is well known to all that the Socialists have always worked in any committee of inquiry set up in this House and, although, for what Mrs Garrido has told us, it seems that it will not be activated, if so, we would do it again, without prejudice and without excuses, but we still think that if this committee were set up, the right time to do so would be when at least the remaining tests have been repeated and when we have finished our first task: to design a more secure model for the OPEs that we have in our portfolio. Today, as in June, we continue to believe that it is urgent. The Socialist Group therefore recognizes the importance of this issue and that is why we also support the road map which proposed specific demands to the Government at the time. We will work on the latest proposal that we have been provided from the department to all parliamentary groups to improve the system that has been in place to date. We defend transparency and information, and this must not be called into question because I do not support a committee of inquiry. We respect the work being done in the Government, in Parliament and on the part of the Office of the Prosecutor, without forgetting the investigation launched by the Ararteko. We started this debate before the summer, highlighting, on the one hand, those who had presented themselves to the exams, which, of course, must be our first concern, because there are those who have paralyzed their lives to want to forge a future; appreciating Osakidetza as a public health system in which other autonomous communities are seen and which citizens value as the first institution within the Basque Government; and, of course, recognizing the work of their professionals, without allowing their professionalism to be questioned with generalities for newspaper holders, because it cannot be said, "this has been going on for 40 years and has always happened", as if the positions that some of the doctors in Osakidetza have been given by those friendships, by that defense of impunity and by that fraud that seems to have been a generality. Having said all this, as no one will be surprised, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote against EH Bildu's proposal, but, as we have said, if we move forward, we will work responsibly, rigorously and seriously to ensure that this committee fulfils its stated objectives. Mrs Ubera concluded her speech with two concepts: rethinking and reflecting. Of course, the Socialist Group shares these two concepts. What has happened with regard to the OPE in Osakidetza requires us to rethink what has been done wrong so far and, of course, obliges us to reflect. Yes, but, of course, to bring in and not to burst. And what is happening with the OPEs of Osakidetza is that they are being used for party profits, to fill pages of newspaper, for great headlines and, of course, the only thing that is happening is that the Basque public system is being questioned. We therefore believe that the committee of inquiry is not the solution. It is in our hands to put us to work from the political parties with the Government to be able to make this the last situation with regard to a public offer of employment. For the moment, in this first intervention nothing more to say, but let us hope that from now on we will find ourselves debating to agree and not debating in a dialogue of the deaf, which is what began to become from the very beginning everything that has had to do with the OPEs of Osakidetza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u7	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Together represent the Podemos team. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours. Mrs. CHARIAN: Good morning! Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. We are going to continue to try, because on 19 July Mr Darpón was appearing in this Parliament to account for the irregularities of the OPE in Osakidetza, which two medical doctors had denounced and which my Elkarrekin Group's report We can corroborate. On the same day, I myself expressed the need for the creation of a commission of inquiry that would give birth to everything that had happened. It was necessary to create it after listening for hours to the Government and to make it clear that its only objective was to punish those who had made the complaint and to close everything quickly, wanting to make us believe that it was capital injustices on the right, that is, psychometric concepts. There is no doubt that the exams are largely improveable, but what was being discussed was more serious than all of this. We were talking about leaks, and the head of the Department of Health was trying to plug in and move on. Four days later EH Bildu recorded this initiative, which we discussed today, December 12, five months later. In the justification of this non-law proposition we read: "... a whole modus operandi has come to light. He goes on to say: "If a definitive solution is to be found to the problem in question, if impunity is to be eliminated, it is also necessary to investigate where the system fails to enable all these actions mentioned; it is essential to know where the cracks are, to take the appropriate corrective measures. "It is a work that must be done and, given that the government is refusing to do so, we believe that Parliament should do so." It was therefore proposed that a special commission of inquiry be set up in order to clarify the irregularities detected in the Osakidetza Public Employment Office and to determine the responsibilities that might arise from them. So far we all agree, and Elkarrekin We can immediately declare his willingness to support this initiative. What we don't understand is why it took five months to bring her to this plenary; we knew it wasn't a matter of time. In these months nothing has changed to make it now and not in September when there is a need to clarify everything that happened at the 2016-2017 OPE of Osakidetza. The same thing we thought in July we thought now: we need an investigation that talks about leaks at once, and not about inconcretions and irregularities without mating that any mantle can cover. We are late, and we have lost valuable time for all those affected by the doped OPEs, who need an explanation and, above all, a solution, because we now have a department that – supported in the opening of eight information files, in problems of corrections, in the forced resignation of the former director in order not to condition the government's policy, and in a model change report – wants to complete this OPE and give folder. And yet today we don't know what happened. A very precious time has been left for all these opponents, condemned to repeat the examination with the same opportunities as they did the first time (i.e. none), with the same courts and with the same corrupt and mafia model that has been used to date. Moreover, culminating in this OPE, this model is a good one, which is nothing other than to pre-select those who are going to overcome the OPE. The same reasons are being given to investigate some specialties than not to do so with others, or to recommend repetition that to assess that there is no need to re-run the tests. On 6 June, we called for the ongoing investigation to come to its final consequences and identify the responsibilities that would be appropriate. The Government's first reaction was to question my honesty and deny any kind of irregularity, any kind of irregularity. They opted for the attack and the denial of what happened. It was glimpsed that there was no interest rate for telling us what had happened in the OPE 2016-2017 de Osade. They could not put up with this strategy of opacity, with the concealment of lists included, and they opened information files, some specialties, motivated by the evidence offered by the statistics and other actions, such as public complaints from two members of the courts of Cardiology and Angiology, or the notarial record of my group in relation to the OPE of Anesthesia and Traumatology. Five months later, we know that the member of the Court of Cardiology warned of leaks in his specialty before the test was held, and no one did anything. We also know that part of the Angiology court pointed to one of its members as the person who leaked information from both evidence, which she herself had designed, and, despite that, Osakidetza maintains her as a member of the court who must repeat the evidence, and yet none of this has been explained to us by the Government. Mr Darpón has protected himself in the autonomy, sovereignty and independence of the courts, when all of them are intervened by a non-optional Osakidetza member. Mr. Darpón wanted to hide behind a psychometric study unable to detect leaks, while showing himself as a flag of transparency in Osakidetza. Too much resources and energy have been spent on trying to hide what everyone knows, that there is a corrupt practice to divide the places by some service chiefs, a standardized and assimilated practice by those who work in Osakidetza on an interim basis and who hope that their time will come to be able to choose it. What has become clear is that if the government has done something, it is to protect this model, OPE after OPE. Mr. Darpón has already said, "It's not my first OPE, nor will it be the last." Elkarrekin We do not believe that these practices were not known within Osakidetza and the Department of Health, and that is why they wanted only to hide it after a catalogue of blankets: repetition of examinations of three specialties that made the duck pay a few; psychometric report that served as an alibi for the government to be able to rely on something and the contrary with the same argument, for an amount of 14.999 euros; report of the change of model that aims to whitewash the irregularities, because I do not imagine that anything can be improved without a priori a diagnosis of what fails, we imagine that for 14.999 euros; videos of 48,700 euros; commemorative events, conferences and exhibitions for more than 160,000 euros. We said it on 6 June and we also say it today: we need a more transparent and democratic Osakidetza. The government didn't want to investigate, it just wanted to cover the model. And it is better late than never, today we also believe that it is necessary to set up this committee, so that this Parliament will investigate and bring to light all that Mr Darpón has refused to make known. That is why we will support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u9	Good morning, everyone. Well, I'd like to start my interference too, reminding myself what the context was. In this public offering, more than $96.000 people were registered to participate in the oposies for one of the three-three-35 jobs, 86 categories and specialities, 86 jurors were formed for the procedure, 1.376 jurors composed of these tribunals, and all the members of the jury who are to be forgotten, all professional members of the Osapartian profession, public employees, expert in their category or their specialities, or experienced persons of great experience. So the complexity of such a public offering is undeniable. In the same way, I would like to remind you that the public offering was agreed with three unions, that the number of jobs and the general and specific principles were agreed. Mrs. Ubera said it was always a thing that happened, and everybody knew it was like this. But the design of the whole employment, the principle of public employment, as the regulations required, was all public. They were all public, and no one objected to them; no one rejected them; no jury, the jury, or the jury, refused them; no one made any appeals to any jury, or to the design of the trial, or to the subject-list. There were only one reviews that the job offering wasn't enough, as some unions say, there were too few jobs. As well as the teams, Mrs. Ubera, or the Podemus together, you knew, was public. You had the opportunity to denounce all these things, but you accepted the selection plan. Till the first week of June, there wasn't a single initiative about the public offers, and that was afterwards known that Podemos had registered his famous quicy in notes. But it must be confessed that there have been serious problems. Our team confesss that it doesn't mean anything to him, but from the first moment before us, the medical department confessed, the managers and the president himself confessed. In the last interpenetration of Mrs. Macazaga, the President explained what it was himself and what was the position of the fun before this incident. No vacation. I'm octacion, I'm minimización. I'm sure you've had a lot of trouble at the election plan since the beginning, and he's accepted (you too have had the opportunity to hear it with Mrs. Garrido, or Mme. Macazaga and Lady Uzega with us, in various scenes of the Board of Health). The autocracy has been done and everyone injured has also been asked to apologize for the injuries caused. That request was sincere. That attitude is honest. And the head of Darpón confirms that it's fun to tell you once and for all what's most interested. As we have argued on previous occasions, we believe – our group thinks – that this OPE has been organised in a transparent manner and with all the guarantees provided by the law, but that problems have arisen. Therefore, given the doubts that have arisen in recent months regarding the possibility of irregularities in the selective process, from the outset, from our group, we demand that the Basque Government do everything in its power to clarify what has happened to its ultimate consequences. Furthermore, we ask you to resolve this situation as soon as possible so that the selective process can be completed with guarantees and transparency. However, we also urge you to act on the basis of objective evidence and experience, at all times preserving the rights of both the opposition and the courts, which, I stress again, are professionals of Osakidetza, companions and companions of all those who have participated in the respective oppositions. And let us not forget, the extensions of the Administration, or the ability to act that the Government, the department and Osakidetza have are limited, are strictly those that allow it the law and the legal system. In any case, we also urge you, in addition to the internal investigation, to cooperate with the Ararteko and the Office of the Prosecutor, as you have done on your own initiative from the very beginning and continue to do. We are therefore inclined to remark that the situation has been faced with a serious problem of this kind, responsibilities, prudence, and severity. I understand your paper, but it must be confessed that it is not the same in opposition, that in this tribe, the Board of Health, it is necessary to have an opportunity of saying anything, or of responsibilities for the influence of the actions of one's own person. In this case, there are many oppositions. The New Year's Department and the Medical Department, in the same way, did all the points of the Moment on June 21, all the points that were in his power. As has never been done elsewhere or elsewhere, for the first time the objective psychometric statistical examination of the selection procedure or examination of all tests has been made. A foreign specialist has been ordered, and the consequences were presented at the Medical Committee in July. When there have been doubts or signs, the measures have been taken, the experience of inquiry has been opened and executed, and the members of the jury have stopped certain proceedings when they appear indispensable. In the same way, some tests have been decided to repeat in certain concrete specialities. The commitment has been taken to complete all the selection procedures of this public offer with all transparency and assurance, and to cause the slightest injury to the rivals. Moreover, as the chief physician of the health department has often said, the process of reflection about the measures to be taken in future has begun. The study or document of measurements to improve the future selection procedure had been presented to us last month at the Medical Committee. The chief of Darpón's department advanced several other measures or changes, and, moreover, it has been remarked that this plan of reflection is to be made together with other agents: with legislative groups, with union agents, with doctors, and so on. So all the options are open. Hala eta guztiz ére, zenbaitentez ez da nahikoa izan eta gaur ére hemen izan dugu horren avidea. Azken philabeteotan Salaketa eta akusazio bear larriak entzun behar izan ditugu: there has been talk of a corrupt, mafioso and even Francoist model; there has been talk of a client plot; there has been talk of court members and opponents of fraud in examinations, of leaks, of staying in hotels to get over the questions; there has been talk of doped opponents and doped OPE. Some have made very serious allegations of leaks based on indications, suspicions and alleged quinielas that have turned them into conclusive evidence, regardless of the presumption of innocence of the people they accuse. Certain heads of service forming part of the OPE courts have been requested to cease fulminantly. It seems that they do not care because they have already ruled their conclusions because they have already handed down a conviction, precisely on the pretext that it has not been possible to prove that there have been no leaks in the development of the selective process, as they maintain. The truth is that the rest gives them the same: all the actions, all the reports, all the investigations, all the explanations are indifferent to them, because it moves them only their interest in discrediting and obtaining a political revenue from this unfortunate situation. We're not afraid to complete the research committee, we're not afraid, but what's the real reason to form this committee? What for? It is astonishing that at the same time, at the same time, we should discuss two undertakings, and in this action which we shall hereafter discuss, demand political cares without any inquiry. What's the subpoena for, then? Political care is already settled. We do not agree with it, much less, if it is an initiative which is intended to be political. So, in all this, our team is not going to protect him when he's an investigator.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u11	The dog does not eat dog's flesh. To tell you the truth, I don't know how to dispute between those sects that deserve to be mentioned in this replication, because here every party will have to account for the decisions which each party has made. You don't have to justify me, you don't have to give me reason or our team any more. There are reasons, decisions, and reasons to justify themselves in the presence of the people, and today, unfortunately, an opportunity has been lost. A choice has been lost to show that politics is done differently to show that words are not carried by the wind. An opportunity has been lost to show that discourses are connected with action. What can I tell you? You know what? Discursies, words are of no value, it's no use, we're against fraud, we're going to lead the investigation to its extreme... When you do the opposite. He has no credibility, he has no credibility. It's easy to say it's for the investigation, then when it's voting, or when all the tools are not used for it. It is a vain thing to say that fraud, corruption, irregularity will be opposed to them, if they will then maintain the sphere of impunity in its proper place. We hoped that it would be the will of the members of the legislature to carry the Offendal offer to the final end of the investigation, among others, Mr. Greenbeze, to determine political cares. Why, you are right, you are quite right; how can political cares be defined if they are not properly examined? And here are penal cares, political cares, because they must be distinguished. And the three ways are necessary and supplementary, and you know better than anyone. The way of the legislature, the judicial road, and, on the other hand, what the Administration can do. But they seemed to be meaningless, to get headlines and wash their faces. Look, Mrs. Macazaga, Mrs Garrido, I've given an argument on the first round, and I've made it clear why we haven't given it up until now. For two principal reasons: The government asked us all time to listen to the explanations, to see their enterprises. We like to do our work well, and we wait patiently and patiently, but we're not with our hands folded: We've made some offers. We worked hard. And then secondly, Mrs. Macazaga, you've seen the course of the investigation. And we've worked hard to keep the committee from going to the law and to have the future. Can you imagine what would have happened if we had brought this in July? Then it seems to me that we must be serious in this matter, that working is important and that this isn't the point of getting mixed up in the area or the headlines. Look, the teams that support the government are terrible, Mr. Sweet Lord. Look, you've taken a total correction, even today, to take the word to be the last. I mean, you think of everything. I want to be like you, too, in some things, not in all. You have the habit of playing with words... You said you protected the final point, the most beautiful of human resources, and protected all the points that were in your hands. How you behave with words! Really, Kacodo. And look at you, it's your constant tendency out there, out of care, out of responsibility, to shit the name of others, just as you've done with the workers of the Osat and have been accused of irregularities. And this has been the last example: When Jimeensius brought his report, "we don't make our report; perhaps we don't make a few measures, perhaps not," but when it comes to the government, we must make the proposals, and the government will listen to them and act accordingly. Is that the responsibility? Is that the responsibility of a government? Please, I think it's really sad, no. You see, it seems to me that today a chance has been lost, even in front of the people, to show that in front of the working people at Osa, there has been some other way of working here, and that it is a different way of going on and making a step in the credibility of the organization. Nevertheless, we will continue to work, and we will not be folded, because of political care, this lawman also cares. Because it's because it's
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u12	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u13	To explain, because it is our work to justify the opacity of the health department, and to put an end to the impunity field. Because it is sufficient data and filed, without avoiding the responsibility to give up the importance of this matter and to do all that is to be done, and in vain discourses. By calling me a new public offer or repeating exams...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u14	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u15	Because it's not safe if things don't change, there's no guarantee. And here's our job to change all this, and if we don't, we'll fail, we'll fail in front of Osar, in front of the workers and people. And that's not a favor to Osaval. It was a benefit to the co-operation of today's investigations, and to get things out of the way. And no, Mr. Orbehail, that's no trouble...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u16	Please finish, Mrs. Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u17	That's a good job, a responsibility. For here things are proposed for reparation, assurance, and policy. Politics are not made with headlines, discourses, and words, and politics is made with enterprises. And today, unfortunately, I've lost a chance...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Lady Garrido, are you going to take your word? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ubera will tell me that she knows that we have been very critical on this subject, and that it has been revealed in various occurrences and interpretations, but it is true that we have not collected the EH team and have our exact point of view from this point of view, and that we have conducted our own proper enterprises in this legislature. I have to tell you that we were the first group to ask for specific political responsibilities to be assumed by this Government and, in addition, we put them into practice in the person of the Director-General of Osakidetza, and those political responsibilities were assumed and the Director-General of Osakidetza ceased to be held to account or to comply with the exact request that the People's Party put on the table at that time. Undoubtedly, as I said in my first speech, we have considered the situation to be very serious; we believe that the performance of the department, of the Director General of Osakidetza, has been very poor; it has been clearly improved in relation to the management of all issues of irregularities and evidence on leaks in the OPE examinations. And it is that above, which is what I have tried to do in my first speech, many questions and many questions, and many queries and many doubts that were on the table regarding the irregularities of this OPE were addressed directly to the person of the Director General of Osakidetza, as the highest responsible for this entity. I have to say, and I repeat again, that the Director-General of Osakidetza, the former Director-General of Múgica, left the post without answering a question to which she had an obligation and responsibility to answer, as it was to answer the question of who had given the names of the experts or of the persons who had carried out the tests at VATP. This question and the corresponding answer is not baladi, ladies and gentlemen. Why do I say she's not a ballad and she's not absolutely harmless? Because the people approved and the people who have been able to obtain a place, and who have approved, and called to obtain a place in certain places, were absolutely close and in orbit, concentrated in certain hospitals and in the orbit of those who have made the examinations. Therefore, there is a direct responsibility in the person and in the Directorate of Osakidetza, which has provided, and has also been admitted in commission, that it was the Directorate of Osakidetza, which started those names from Osakidetza, that list of experts who made the examinations. I therefore believe that everything clearly pointed to the assumption and the need for the assumption of responsibilities, in this case, of the maximum responsibility for the implementation of this OPE and for managing this OPE. That is what we have said as active and passive: with this resignation, with this cessation, better said, of the director general of Osakidetza, endorsed, obviously, by the councillor – and the lehendakari has accepted that it was the proposal of the Party Popular–, we said, "You have a chance." That, either they take advantage of it or, if they do not take advantage of it, of course, the People's Party will again take the initiative, as we did when we expressly requested, and I have to say that it is the only group that I bet on the table a specific request for responsibility in the person of the Director General of Osakidetza, who has ceased and is now former Director General of Osakidetza. Therefore, Mr Orbegozo – and I am finishing – you cannot come here... , and I think you have to make a self-criticism: I know you are from the Basque Nationalist Party; I know that on too many occasions you think you are immune, that you also act with a certain sense of impunity, and I think it is not good to pass that message on to the citizens. And when a party and a government are affected by actions and events that are of clear gravity and that, moreover, very poor management and poor management by their political leaders has been demonstrated, decisions must be made, and that is why the People's Party put on the table the decision to take political responsibilities in a particular person, who was the director general of Osakidetza. Therefore, I think there is still any attempt on the part of the government – I am referring especially to the Basque Nationalist Party, because it is the Health Council that has it – to justify the actions of a government, because the most obvious proof that things have not been done right – and have not been done right – has been that they have had to cease the maximum responsible of Osakidetza, is that they have had to cease it. So you can't come here either saying that nothing has happened here. This is a first step. We hope it's the last...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u20	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u21	But it's in his hand. And of course, if they do not change things, I have to say very loudly and very clearly that this group will take the initiative and obviously make new proposals, if necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u22	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u23	Thank you again, President. I find it quite irresponsible, Mrs Macazaga, to use in a parliamentary rostrum concepts such as "corruption", in a free way, those headlines that you love, "mafious procedures" and, then, all this combined with "we don't know what happened, because nothing has been done...". I believe that on 21 June, when seven of eight points were unanimously adopted by all the parliamentary groups, I believe that if you go point by point from what was adopted, you will be able to see that the Government has been doing everything, everything that essentially Elkarrekin Podemos, EH Bildu and the People's Party were asking the Government and that the parties that support it decided to vote in favour. Therefore, it cannot be said that nothing has been done. He is once again irresponsible, saying that it is a standard practice, questioning the professionalism of Osakidetza's doctors. And at the end of my first speech, I said that we were facing a debate of the deaf. It just doesn't matter what we say about this. You have a purpose, which can be the resignation of Mr Darpón on his own initiative, the cessation of Mr Darpón on the initiative of the lehendakari or the reprobation by this House, which is what we are going to discuss later in this plenary. So it doesn't matter what we say. The psychometric report is called into question, questioning the professionalism of the person who raises it; it is said that nothing has been done, when the Government has met with you in private, open-door parliamentary committee, appearances at its own request, appearances at its own request... It's just everything's been done. You have had access to all the information about what has to do with this OPE of Osakidetza. I understand that it seems insufficient to you, I understand. I understand that you do not agree with the results that the Government may be offering, I understand that. But what can't be said is that nothing has been done, trying to transfer to the citizenry that there are two parties in this Basque Parliament that have closed their eyes and put on a blindfold, understanding that no matter what happens, and that we are partners of impunity and irresponsibility that, frankly, Mrs Macazaga, I will not allow. And then, Mrs Ubera said, "It is that the groups that support the government are terrible, they have removed the compromise amendment." Look, Mrs Ubera, in this Parliament, there has been a change in the agenda of the plenary today, and neither the PNV nor the Socialist Party of Euskadi has asked for it, because this item is going to be discussed on the fifth and we are debating it in the first debate. Obviously there is much more media attention if it is the first point than if it is the sixth or fifth, that we all know how the media also works. On the other hand, we're talking about "terribles"... Anyway, let's have our portal swept. And you said, "You'll have to explain to the citizens." And you too, you too, because you are creating frustration and doing with this demagogy issue. You too, Mrs Ubera, and I am taking the floor, which I have respected and heard a lot of nonsense in your first speech. And I'll tell you more: you say, "you're in favor..."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u24	Silence. Mrs. Ubera, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u25	You said, "You couldn't say you're in favour of investigating what happened and not supporting the commission of inquiry." It's just two different things, Mrs. Ubera. You know what this Parliament's committee of inquiry wanted to do: to bring it to justice. There is an open investigation by Ararteko, another in the Government and another in the Prosecutor's Office. By the way, taking it to the D.A.'s office, you asked for it at the...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u26	Ubera andrera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u27	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u28	Shut up! Number one. Shut up! You've talked enough. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u29	Bringing it to the Office of the Prosecutor was a request we made in the initiative approved on 21 June. And you have to let it work. Doesn't mean you don't want to investigate... Because from now on, then, for everything we want to investigate, that there is a lot in this country, we create commissions of inquiry. What happened...? No, it's just that you don't want everything investigated, you want to investigate what interests you. And you said, "The will is to go to the end." Also that of the Socialist Party of Euskadi: go to the end. But the effort of the citizens and the good name of Osakidetza cannot be used. And I in the last speech of the last committee, which we talked about this, that the last one was, which I understand will not be the last one, I said, "I think we should lower the tone of the statements made in the speeches." Because we must be responsible, not run away from political responsibility and put in the hands of the citizens a solution so that this does not happen again, because – I think I have a good memory – at Mr Darpón's first appearance, he himself said: "I have a problem". He didn't deny what had happened. He did not deny that something has indeed been done wrong. Let us work to find solutions, but let us not tell the citizens things that are not true, because you know that we have met all the parliamentary groups with the Government, we know the information they have given us, we know that they have been willing to negotiate. And you said, "Of course, they're bringing Jiménez Asencio's report now and the government doesn't take it." And I ask you, Mrs Ubera, what would have happened if the government brought a report and said, "This report has been done by the government"? What is intended is to bring an objective report, made by a professional, which also explained from what point of view it came, and now it is open for everyone to say what we think is right and what we think is wrong. We have a date to deliver the contributions of the parliamentary groups. Man, let's not cheat. I understand that each party does not agree with what the government is doing. I understand it, it's the opposition parties, but what you can't say is that nothing has been done, that you are looking elsewhere, that there is no information and that we are withdrawing amendments, I don't know why...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u30	Go to the end of it, Miss Rojo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u31	Excuse me, others have passed in almost two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u32	I said, "Finish me," Miss Rojo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u33	Speaking of corruption, mafia attitudes, when there is honestly only one end here, that Mr Darpón is not of my party, but here there is only one end, which is to end the health counselor, and then we go to the end. And if you had it so clear, you would have taken it to the commission of inquiry at first, and you wouldn't have had us all three months debating, looking for newspaper headlines so that this doesn't end, because the municipalities are close and there are political interests here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u34	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u35	Mila esker, president andrea Mrs Garrido, you cannot settle for the clearance of responsibilities in the resignation of Mrs Múgica. Firstly, because nothing is clarified, and secondly, because it is not the same that should be the responsibility or all responsibility. Mrs. Red, what a piece of paper! I'd like to know what research Ararteko is developing...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u36	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u37	... because you must have more information than Ararteko himself. Tell me – at another time, now you will no longer have speaking time – what research the Ararteko is carrying out, please. Because Ararteko doesn't know what investigation he's carrying out. Tell me later. Mr Orbegozo, what problems have arisen in this OPE? You make it very difficult for Mr Darpón, of course. Look, they are committed to saying that the Government has a commitment to investigate until the end. The problem is, he doesn't execute it. The only thing that exposes it is that citizens do not want to know about anything and the leaks remain as mere speculation – leaks We must be vaccinated not by the flu alone, but also by ways of governing oriented towards opacity, obscurantism or as you prefer to call it, at discretion. There is a problem if they are not able to assume that a fundamental right has been violated in these OPEs. Equal opportunities were violated and the Government wants us to think it was because of problems, as you call it, or correction models. A corrupt model was accepted that allows choosing those who are going to pass the OPE before even being designed the exam. The Department of Health knew him and consented to him. It has become clear that the Government has not wanted to investigate, but rather to cover its own shames. Five months after the collapse of the doped OPE crisis, the Government had had sufficient time to investigate whether it had had the will. Investigations have been made to some categories to the detriment of others that meet the same parameters as the Department of Health determined to be valid for investigation. This arbitrariness leads us to have specialties, Mr Darpón, yes, as Traumatology, with 120 opponents for 55 places to which they approve 56, with all close to 100 in the practical test. At the Hospital de Alto Deba, Mondragon, the service is made up of eight persons, eight of whom are fixed and two of whom are members of the court; the other five persons are temporary and obtain a place with notes higher than 90. Elkarrekin Podemos agreed in a second record of demonstrations, and with names and surnames, that these five people were going to take out the square, dates before the exam was carried out. The report of the University of Oviedo points out that the distribution of scores does not conform to a normal distribution, the same mention that is made in the evidence as anesthesiology, but nevertheless it is decided that it is not repeated, and everything remains in a sham to the independent, sovereign and autonomous court for having met informally, as if it were the first to do so. I would like to remind you that in one of your information files there is another informal meeting that you have not told us about. Or like the OPE of Urology. A clear example of why there is a second test in specialists' OPEs. According to Oviedo's report, in the second test the scores of the opposing persons do not conform to a normal distribution. However, this time it is overlooked and not used as a determinant to recommend its repetition. Thirty-nine persons are present for 14 places; they approve 14. And we could mention so many others that have remained unresolved for a single reason: there has been no will. Just like you have more information than I do and you know what happened, for which you do not need any kind of investigation. Tell me, weren't there any infiltrations? Who leaked it? Didn't it leak? What specialties are affected by this customer practice – yes, customer – and corrupt? Who decides who the chosen ones are? Do you know, Mr. Orbegozo? Don't you know? Well, we've got to look into it anyway. What do you know that we don't know, that you don't need any investigation? Because citizenship and Elkarrekin We need to know what happened. We have a lot of evidence to corroborate what I'm saying here. Parliament must have the capacity to investigate and bring to light everything that the Government has wanted to hide, draw its own conclusions, clear responsibilities and also have the opportunity to work with Justice, Mrs Red. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u39	Well, good morning to all of you again. I must confess that I had never heard of the saying of Mrs. Ubera: "The dog doesn't eat dog's flesh." I'll tell you another one. Zozos to the raven, black ass. I would like to mention, Ms. Rojo, that here all the members of the legislature, we all have the right to manage their enterprises, and to manage their interests, and I believe that it is lawful for me to do very little of what I have said. "The opportunity is lost," you say. Well, what's the waste of the chance? What's the missing option for? What investigation would be made on this committee? What's going to happen to the research that he's going to do within his own reach, or the prosecution, or the investigation that's working on the intermediary, even though it's a Mrs. Macazaga, who seems to have done nothing about the information and the intermediary. But what credibility would it be to-day, in half an hour and a half, when we are about to discuss another initiative, saying that the political editor of the chief of Darpón has to prove himself? What political care would we discuss in that study committee? What would be the light? Nothing! We'd end it with the same speech that we've heard in the last five months. Mrs. Macazaga, dare at once! Don't always come with the same roll! Say the names, make the names public here! Dare, accuse these people publicly at once! It's all right! You don't care whether there have been leaks or not. What you are not able to prove is that there have been leaks, just as it is not possible to prove that there have been no leaks. And that's the problem, that you do an interpretation and you can do different interpretations. We live in a rule of law, and people have rights, and there is the presumption of innocence, and you don't care. And I'm sure if you were Counsellor Macazaga whatsapp It's just that we're talking about something else: you don't care; you want to give cane to the government, to give cane to the PNV, and here the only political responsibilities that are going to be clarified, what citizenship is going to say in the end, it's going to be in the elections what you're going to vote for, because this, really, people don't understand. What you're doing is an abuse and you don't understand. So, unfortunately, no one here has shown that there have been leaks. No one has proved it. Not the opposite, but there's been a leak, no one's proved it, and you can sit in any way you like, but you've proved nothing today. And so you have more information, and if you dare to give up the names of these people here, come, no fear, come and face them once and for all. On the other hand, Mme. Ubera, read the motion well, it's not playing with words. The trouble is that he gets what he's getting, he bothers him with some business or some obligations, and he says at eight o'clock that the legal team will complete it. That's not up to you. But...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u40	Mrs. Ubera, please. Number two.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u41	Understand, understand, though not liked, do the effort to understand. For what is plain is one thing: here, in opposition to this tribe, or the committee, or the press room, you may go and say anything. It's all the same to you, well, at least it doesn't have any effect, but when you're happy, you're in charge of the health department, that's got to be responsible. With responsibility. What he does, because what he says is a direct influence on thousands of people in this case. And therefore, if we say this, and know that in half an hour and a half this argument will be repeated again, well, confirm our refusal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u42	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the original initiative of the EH Collect team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 37; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u43	So, not allowed original text. Third point in theme list: "Mumium, Tinixara Guanche Suáz together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, with regard to the patriotic employment and social policy which promotes the inequality of women and men. To discuss and to decide once and for all." The next round of the proposed team is Mrs. Guanche, representing the Podemos team together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u44	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chiefs of departments, good days to all. "It is proposed that the gender perspective appears named as a cross-cutting commitment that affects the plan's completeness, and not so much listed as an area more of public policy, since it is not an area as such, since it is a generic, strategic and substantial contribution. "Act No. 4/2005 of 18 February 2005 on the equality of women and men points out in article 3.4, as a general principle, that the integration of a gender perspective, according to which 'the Basque public authorities must incorporate a gender perspective into all their policies and actions, so as to establish in all of them the general objective of eliminating inequalities and promoting equality between women and men'. "It's about this look going through the whole plan. I repeat, go through the whole plan. "In this regard, the gender perspective goes beyond implementing some concrete measures aimed at women. It is about promoting equality in an active way, anticipating the possible differential effects or gender impacts of all the actions of family public policies on the lives of women, men, girls, boys, girls and boys articulated through this plan. "All this will ensure better governance by helping to respond to a wider social reality." These are not my words; they are the textual words of Emakunde in his reading of the gender impact of the Family Plan approved by this Government (specifically, it is page three, and whoever needs it I can provide a copy that then, that I do not want to be said to misinterpret or manipulate things). As I said last week, the equality of men and women together has a very important place for Podemos. We look at our political task from the perspective of the genus. And it is from that commitment that we bring this proposal today, from which we understand that this is a central issue that needs to be addressed. That is why today we bring a proposal – derived from the inquiry to the councilwoman two weeks ago – with which we propose an ambitious objective, in line with the commitment that Elkarrekin Podemos has, but which we understand should be common to the rest of the forces of this House: not to implement public policies with patriarchal bias; to protect the rights of everyone. Simple. In our view, that goes by recognizing that the Department of Employment and Social Policy, in this case – even if the same counsellor does not want to hear it – has a wide margin of improvement. That is why we call for the incorporation of feminism and its contributions as key elements in policies, the introduction of a cross-cutting gender perspective and the promotion of positive actions to correct inequalities. We urge that public policies be adapted to ensure the exercise of rights by women, based on a diagnostic evaluation of services, in which women participate. In addition to this, and to give concrete expression to specific actions, we call for an in-depth study on the feminization of poverty, which will lead to a comprehensive strategy, which we consider urgent. This proposal, we believe, is enriched by the input from Mrs Etxebarrieta's addendum. Proposal, that we bring to the table for two reasons: because one of our functions is to give impetus to the Government – and this is how we recognize that we can improve the action of this Government – and, above all, because Mrs Artolazabal's department has a wide range of issues among its responsibilities that are indispensable to assess and work with a gender perspective, not only to ensure its effectiveness, but also by the very meaning of public policies, resources and services. And today, we find many shortcomings. I would point out a few examples: family policies cannot and should not continue to be proposed by looking at gender as a watertight drawer; childhood policies cannot and should not be considered by looking at gender as an indicator of how many girls and boys. And to this day, it is to a large extent what is done. The tick is fulfilled they and they We cannot and should not do politics without looking at women, because we are half the world. Beyond disaggregating data between women and men, it is necessary, indispensable – and that is why we also appreciate the nuances of the EH Bildu amendment – to measure the impact that policies are having specifically on women and this is not done today. Not only is it indispensable, but it is also in our hands to change it. A reform of a body as important as Lanbide, which is not that it does not look at women, cannot and should not be presented, is that it directly erases half of the citizenship, invisibly, and designs policies that are, in essence, inaccessible to us. We cannot and should not continue to implement policies, such as income-guarantee policies, which today leave many women behind. It is not me, it is Ararteko himself who says, in many of the resolutions, that policies are implemented disproportionately and/or not adjusted to the law. What would Emakunde say about these unfair and disproportionate suspensions? Is he consulted? They should not – because power, they are being able to – promote issues such as EPSV as a model that privatizes a right that excludes workers with worse contracts and less purchasing power, where we are certainly women. We cannot and should not increase the amount of economic aid that contributes to the worst-paid women staying at home, as if care were our only thing. Plans cannot and should not be presented without the gender impact report, and it is not even legal. I have searched and I do not exist; I have asked and I have not succeeded too; I have asked again, in case I was not able to find it, but it turns out that apparently there are no, or if there are no, mandatory gender impact reports in such important plans as inclusion or synogarism, but don't worry I will not give it as a fact, I will ask them all. I hope to get out of doubt and I hope to do so positively. Allow me, however, to question and put on the table that I am concerned that this Government is not doing enough. And I keep going. We cannot allow, even if it has already been done, the political group that supports this government – together with the PSE, which takes so much breast for equality – to recover, to speak of income guarantee income, the confused concept of "violence in the family". There is no longer "machist violence" or "gender violence". From a pen you erase a reality, which is not only that it jumps into the eyes, but that it is beyond "violence in the family". In case they don't know, there is an endless amount of violence beyond what happens in the home. But I have to say that this department is not adjusting to principles such as "equality and non-discrimination". It is not promoting the value of equity or proportionality. And this, in an area such as poverty, which has a woman's face, specifically harms us. I continue with some examples: suspension of the benefit to a woman with four children, three of them with a disability; extinction of a woman for leaving a job in the face of a situation of pregnancy at risk, which today are denouncing social groups in Barakaldo; the well-known does little to claim almost 10,000 euros from those who do not have to meet their needs, because Lanbide is eager that they must comply with norms that do not exist (and I do not say so, says the Ararteko resolution of 15 May 2018). The feeling is that here you pull forward like a donkey with ears, without looking at who falls down the road, without asking why you fall down the road and without understanding the mistakes inherent in any human being, especially when we find ourselves in situations of vulnerability. It cannot and should not be naturalized that women survivors of sexist violence should be double victimized, when not directly raped by the institution. No, because it is not ethical, because it is not fair, but, above all, because it is contrary to the legal mandate that all institutions have (we have) to implement human rights, because women's rights are also human rights. Today, therefore, we point out that it is the duty of public institutions to exercise due diligence and that it is necessary to investigate, to accompany, to attend to and to repair women in a comprehensive and specific way as well. It happens, ladies and gentlemen, by doing politics with purple glasses, that if you do not know how to put yourself or how to see through them, you must learn urgently. It's not an option, it's not something you can do to disguise. It's an obligation. An obligation in the face of data that does not allow us to move forward like donkeys with earrings. On the job, Mrs Artolazabal told us, with her well-known ability to find data for self-congratulation, which we are referring to. Compared to who, I wonder today. Because when you scratch a little bit, you realize that, for example, Sweden or Germany bring us more than 10 points of difference in women's role in access to employment. The average unemployment rate of the 28 EU countries is five times lower than the unemployment rate of women in Euskadi. Three house four people employed on part-time days were women in 2016. Two out of three new part-time contracts are occupied by women. In the GIR, in the supplementary benefit of single parenthood, there is a great inequality, because 94.5 of those who need it and request it are women. Women present a worse situation than men in all types of poverty analyzed since 2014. 92% of child and child care surpluses are requested by women. 74% of family care also. The average income is almost 10,000 euros lower in women than in men. 44.3% of EAC women have incomes below €9,000, accounting for 56% of the poor in Euskadi (194,620 women), but there does not appear to be a need to implement new elements, specific new measures, or a real gender perspective in policies. Finally, we have to read carefully the poverty tables in Emakunde's report on gender impact assessment of social exclusion – they already see that they are not data taken out of my pockets, if they are not their own data – to see clearly how women win by goal. We are the ones who suffer most poverty in any of its dimensions, and in a particularly serious way if we care for those over 65 or those who lead single-parent families. And to the honest question of what will be done to address this in a different way from that that comes so far, the answer: propaganda and great measures. The first one. It helps to reconcile, which are only economic aids that do not work and that reproduce traditional roles that take women out of the labour market and widen the wage gap, shield, if possible, the glass ceiling, and embarrass the sticky soil. Nine out of ten help to stay home to take care of are for women. They inflate the budget with perverse aid and add a (phantom) co-responsibility aid, which is not going to be put into effect because they have not made the decree. That's right, they always find the time to advertise. And that's it: these are the department's two great developments to contribute to equality. Is this going to solve the situation of women in Euskadi? Well, we don't believe it. We believe that this is not the way forward towards real equality, towards transformative equality. And we don't think that you don't – listen well – not because let's say it's no use what is done or because let's say nothing is done. We believe that it is not because it is neither sufficient nor well oriented what is done. Because without a gender perspective, policies, by action or omission, are patriarchal and reproduce traditional actions and values that generate the most deeply rooted inequality in our society, and without a gender perspective there is no social justice for women. It is essential to broaden the look, put on the purple glasses and lift your head so that women, especially the most vulnerable, are in the center. In this department, especially because it caters to the most vulnerable, but, of course, throughout this Government. And for this, in our opinion, it is necessary to design and implement policies that incorporate feminism and its contributions as a trunk element. It is essential to take a step forward and if we really want to boast about policies, there are reasons for that. We propose that the real and effective exercise of women's rights be assumed with responsibility and commitment, reviewing all plans, strategies, protocols and procedures of the department, because its department, through action or omission, voluntarily or involuntarily, is systematically placing obstacles on women, the elderly, pensioners, victims of sexist violence, those here and there. They are revictimizing, they are exercising institutional mistreatment, they are forgetting us, and we must urgently remedy this. To carry out the review, a diagnostic evaluation should be carried out with them. In addition, it is high time that we had specific and comprehensive studies on the feminization of poverty, and it is essential to build on the knowledge that already exists in Euskadi to develop a comprehensive strategy. Finally, we remember that we're gonna have to do what we agreed on in this business without any excuse. Mrs. Artola generous, if it does not direct what has been agreed on in May 2017, we question your engagement and your will to improve the lives of women. With patriarchal policies good will never be common, and without us there is no social justice, no human development, no sustainable development. Politikak patriarchkalak badira, auzolana ezinezkoa da; emakumeok barik, ez of social justice inoz egongo. Are gehiago: emakumeok gabe ez dago giza garapenik, ezta garapen jasangarrik ere ez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Housekeeper, representing the EH Collect Group. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u46	Thank you, good morning. I don't know if you remember a Snoopy comic book, Ssterrix and twelve tests. A few months ago we heard of a case like this, and why the Arrian accused him once more (and not in practice), because he had taken the precaution to turn the situation round. And when I read this news, it occurred to me. "... a family composed of four generations of socially excluded women (grandmother, grandmother, mother and daughter) for whom GIR was the only source of income they had to meet their basic needs. After receiving Lanbide's request for documentation, the collector went to the reference office four times to present the documentation she had at the time or to justify why she did not have it in time and form." And here, the Asterix and Obelix moment: "The first time he came with the passport, having lost his DNI recently, and the person who attended it told him that without the DNI or a police certificate he would not accept the documentation he was carrying. "On the second visit, he came with the police certificate, but without the passport, and neither did they take the documentation. "The third time he took the passport, the police certificate and the photocopy of the DNI. That time they did not accept the documentation, because they did not carry the original DNI. "Before the difficulties he encountered, he went to his social worker, who suggested that he arrange a new appointment in Lanbide. On that occasion he was able to deliver all the documentation he had at the time." But – in the case of Asterix and Obelix, they managed to do so – despite this, this person failed to do so, because "Lanbide maintained the suspension of his entitlement to benefits by 'not submitting within the stipulated time limit the documentation that had been requested of him'". And this is just an example, but we must not forget that behind this example we are speaking of the life of four people. In the case of women who had suffered machita violence, we discussed the steps by which the income or other preparations should be paid, and the guarantees to which it was demanded, that we had two studies, in May 2017, as has been said, and agreed that there must be a change between us all in this direction. We need social services that will open the path to the show, victim of violence, yes, but at the time we said that we need services to ease people who have the entire agency. To make decisions, we must build tools and paths to govern our lives. Victim, yes, but not object. And even if we agreed, the government hasn't done anything yet. On our questions, in Spain, the violence of Matxistia is waiting for changes made by the law, but aren't we capable of offering the methods and services which facilitate the lives of these persons, in order to make changes? At least we have some keys on the table. We think while we're waiting, others are still suffering. In this direction, it is indispensable that we should reflect deeply on the Department of Empedic and Police Society, because it is also an example of business, but the department has other plans and protocols, and we have several times asked the chief physician where women are in the representation of these plans. Plan Immigration Plan, Youth Plan... Where are the women? We also told you that the music was interesting and that we liked speech, that we agreed with it, but afterwards, when we went down to the enterprises, there was a terrible difference. And so we go on: and we are not women, and so on. In this direction, we took Podemos' proposition with our eyes and offered two of them. Partly the intervention: of the feminists, of the most expert, of the people who have received these preparations... If we do not know how to look out of the violet spectacles, there are some who will teach us how to look at them. And on the other hand, we did what belongs to the study of the use of the denbos. We had been in some exercises organized by the results (about the crack of the date) and it was very interesting that the researcher of Machalen Lágarre had mentioned. He left us some questions in the air, and I'd like to bring them here today because I think they have a lot to do with what we're talking about. "How much does it cost to make a good paella? And pass the vacuum cleaner? And clean the bathroom? How much does it cost to change a creature's diapers? And an adult person? How much would you pay to see your children take their first steps? How much does it cost to take care of a person who is sick and cannot move from bed? How much is it worth to say goodbye to the people you want before his death? How much would you pay to avoid an argument with your partner? And for having an hour a day of your own time or of free will?". These were the questions that Machalen asked us, and the use of the time we do, and the care we have of every one there. I think they gave a great deal of thought, and, as a government, as an institution, we ought to ask ourselves these questions, because it is necessary to consider what this use of time is and what it gives. Though it's hard to appreciate how much some people are worth, especially when they work for free. And Estate gives interesting facts, lots of them. But we could see that he was playing a few limits (which was the expression of Muche himself), especially because he showed a certain difference between work and job, but also within the work, which is not paid, but which we offered him time, that it was necessary to consider who and what it was that gave him. It was because of him. It's not the same, either wash the bathroom or play with the kids in the park. And if that's what we're talking about today, and perhaps it may be difficult to understand why we're talking about it all, but I think we must be very clear if we want to make changes in the whole work that's made for free, if we want to change the whole of the work that's done, and we're talking about the correlative, even if we want to take steps in it, because we're going to think about it as an institution, how much we want to contribute to that gift work, or what we want to do. And as I said, why are we talking about this here? Because we have to look in that global direction what women contribute to, and because we have to look in that direction instead of in that classical view which we've been dealing with. Is it time to think about it, or do we keep going the same way? And in this case it is different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Well, we do share the assertion of "women's greatest vulnerability." We believe that we cannot hide this reality and, therefore, I think it is good that we put forward different initiatives, in order to combine the shortcomings or, rather, the deficits in this area. You have clays and chicks truthfulness beat of age ukatu institution publikoetatik neurri deberdinak hartu behar say it. We believe that the situation of gender-based violence has its own name and in this regard, last week, this group brought to this Parliament a specific initiative in which a broad agreement was reached. In this agreement, we asked the Government for a number of things, including the referral of the bill to eliminate violence against women as soon as possible. This draft is a legislative commitment and, moreover, was planned for this second quarter of 2018 and, moreover, in a parliamentary agreement it was left to shorten the deadlines for the referral of this draft law. Today we have no news of this regulation in this House, and we therefore believe that it is necessary to urge the Basque Government, once again, because it is not the first, to bring this important bill to this House as soon as possible. Berriro eskatu diugu Gobernuari, ahal den neurrian eta ahal den azkarrena, ekartzea Legebiltzarrera proyektu hau hemen eztabaidatzeko. On the other hand, we also called for strengthening programmes related to prevention, awareness-raising, protection and care for women victims of gender-based violence, as well as updating the protocols. We agree, except in some respects, with the Podemos initiative, such as those related to the feminization of poverty, precarious employment and gender-based violence. But I believe, Mrs Guanche, that your initiative remains short or that it is not as broad as we would have liked, in the sense of not addressing other issues that have to do with inequality between men and women, such as the issue of the wage gap, such as the specific access of women to certain managerial positions, such as co-responsibility in the family in domestic work, in the care of children and dependent persons. The very issue of conciliation, which is also particularly the responsibility of women, who carry out the tasks of caring for young children and also dependent persons. In that regard, we believe that his initiative has sinned to have a somewhat restrictive approach. We believe that the initiative has been too focused from a perspective, leaving aside other issues that we certainly consider relevant in addressing this issue. We all know that we have the conclusions of the study of social progress and inequalities, a comprehensive study, which analyses poverty and precariousness, their impact, indicators of risk of poverty and exclusion, the distribution of income among the population, social groups and areas at greatest risk, the impact of poverty on families with children, which is child poverty (on this point we have also discussed in this Parliament repeatedly and have reached concrete proposals to also address this phenomenon). This report also analyses the evolution of poverty situations by place, age, nationality, gender, and also addresses the features of poverty. I am going to stop at an issue that I think is important, which is the issue of the wage gap. Eurostat data and another recent Emakunde report indicate that the wage gap in Euskadi is 24.4%. That is to say, EUR 7,543. And the reasons behind the wage gap between men and women are that women occupy the worst paid jobs, which are located in the orbit of the service, care and trade sector. Women also occupy more part-time jobs and do not gain access to high-skilled jobs. I therefore believe that this is a phenomenon of sufficient entity, which needs to be addressed, and also, of course, addressed from the Basque Government. I must also announce that several of the amendments we have tabled to the 2019 budgets are aimed precisely at addressing the situation of the wage gap which unfortunately still exists between men and women in the Basque Country. Finally – I am not going to stop too long because we are presenting an inquiry this Thursday into conciliation – I believe that the measures that this Executive has put in place (the Government of Mr Urkullu, the Government of the People) on conciliation leave much to be desired. The III Family Plan has been breached clearly also in relation to the increase in annuities and amounts; commitments made have been breached; delays in the few initiatives proposed; and items that could not be implemented due to the lack of due diligence of this Government. But I will obviously refer to this issue next Friday in an inquiry that we have presented to this Government. I have to say that we have reached an agreement with the parties that support the Government, that we believe it to be a positive agreement and that we believe it to be a positive agreement and that it also focuses on the objectives we believe that it must have such an initiative, although, obviously, as I have said, Mrs Guanche, we are grateful that you have brought the debate to this House. We note that a parliamentary mandate is being fulfilled in relation to the adaptation of the single payment benefit rules (this is the first point). On a second point, the Basque Government is urged to continue to adapt the necessary measures to achieve real and effective equality between men and women. We have introduced this point in our amendment because we believe that this is the essential issue on which we must emphasize, insofar as we are making progress towards achieving real and effective equality, because the discrimination that continues to exist today will disappear and we all regret it. On the other hand, we urge the Basque Government to continue to develop positive discrimination measures in employment policies, with the aim of increasing employability and access to the labour market for women. This is also a matter of concern to this group and I have to say that we have also tabled specific amendments in this regard in relation to female unemployment, whether women have an opportunity or with the search for ways to improve the employability of women, or to give employment to women who are unemployed, with specific initiatives that have been reflected in the amendments also submitted to these budgets. On the other hand, reference is also made to progress in the area of responsible conciliation, so that the task of care is shared by men and women, which is one of the issues I also mentioned when I pointed out that I missed some specific references in the proposed initiative. I believe that the agreement signed between the Eucta party, the Socialist Party, and the Potion Party, is a good deal, and that it seeks solutions in the presence of the affairs we have. And I am sorry, in the end, that Podemos and EH Collectors have agreed with each other, and, in this respect, sorrow, because it was better to agree with them all, but it seems impossible, and in the end it seems that a treaty signed between the three parties will come to an end in this chamber. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u49	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u50	Yes, thank you, President. Today we are going to talk about employment and social policies that promote the equality of women and men, as well as the need to incorporate a gender perspective into all their policies and actions. And I say it in positive, because we've been working on this line for 30 years. It is clear that, despite all the work done, progress must be made, taking steps towards effective real equality, because this has not yet been achieved, with women being the most vulnerable to exclusion, those suffering the most from inequalities in the work environment and those on which family reconciliation in an increasingly ageing society is most dependent. It is always good to debate for progress on equality. The Equality of Women and Men Act itself, Act 4/2005 of 18 February, sets out the obligation of all public authorities to incorporate a gender perspective into all their policies and actions, and is also a necessary factor in order to combat the still existing inequality between men and women. The proposer group doubts, at its initiative, that this gender perspective should be included in the various plans drawn up during this legislature, such as the Inter-Agency Pact for Family Support, the Inclusion Plan, the Homelessness Plan, the Employment Plan, the same reform of the GIR, etc. It also calls into question its transversality, and, as it calls into question, it wants to examine the entire policy of the Department of Employment and Social Policy and calls for feminism to be the backbone of all policies. He therefore called for all the plans, strategies, protocols and procedures of the Department of Employment to be reviewed again within one year – as well as if they had just been approved and if they had been agreed with the affected groups – and for a diagnostic evaluation of all the services and services of the department, in which feminist organizations had to participate. And, in addition, in six months, carry out a study on the feminization of poverty in Euskadi. It is forgotten that, as I have indicated, the various groups concerned have been involved in drawing up these plans. Again, as we are used to, your proposals end up making diagnostic reports, more studies... Today they ask us for a year for some things; six months for another, but soon they can present us with another initiative where this periodicity is reduced, because they never seem adequate the periodicity of the studies that are regularly and continuously carried out. And if it is done today every year, to set an example, you will ask it to be done in less. And the EH Bildu group has signed the compromise amendment, where this original initiative presented by the Elkarrekin Podemos group is maintained. Of course, my group, the Basque Socialists, do not agree with the initiative put forward, for the reasons I shall set out below. Because we do believe that the above-mentioned plans have included a gender perspective and include measures to achieve real equality in our society, even if we must continue to insist on them until real and effective equality is achieved; and in addition, it is implemented by the various departments of the Government and budgetary resources are available for it. Women, we agree, are also the most affected by temporality and partiality, and have the greatest difficulty in developing their professional careers, as family reconciliation is still mainly their responsibility. Women are the group that has suffered the most from the cuts that have occurred in recent years and the labour reform of 2012. Thanks to the Socialist Parliamentary Group (and thus agreed with the Basque Nationalist Group), during the years of the crises no cuts were made in policies of equality or gender-based violence in our autonomous community, and that is important, and that line has not been followed in other areas, as in budgets at the state level. It is clear, however, that we have been moving forward, and that the employment rate of women in the last 25 years has increased by 17.2% (from 27.1 to 44.3), and the partiality rate has fallen in the second quarter of 2018 (5.7 percentage points less than in the fourth quarter of 2017 and 8.4 points less than in the fourth quarter of 2016), and this is due to policies that have been put in place to achieve this. From the Department of Labour and Justice, as of December 12, 2018, the number of regular contracts required by the Labour Inspectorate of the Basque Country in the regular development of temporary and part-time recruitment fraud campaigns is 6,123, of which 3,319 affect women and 2,804 affect men. If 1,348 contracts regularised by companies in Euskadi are joined to this as a result of the two shock plans provided for by the master plan of the Labour Inspectorate initiated – as we all know – in August 2018, we have a total of 7,471 contracts transformed or regularized. A plan has been put in place to combat the wage gap from different departments, including diagnostic aid programmes, to take measures to reduce the wage gap, accreditation and certification of companies in the area of co-responsible conciliation, a pilot programme of good practice, implementation in co-responsible conciliation companies, specific campaigns from the Labour Inspectorate to combat the wage gap. The presence of women in sectors that are underrepresented continues to be encouraged; 2019 is being introduced, as a novelty in the draft budgets, 19 million euros for financing permits to non-pregnant parents; 700,000 euros in aid for hiring disadvantaged groups, where these women are; and 1 million euros for unique projects that generate employment options. Mrs Guanche, you come here asking for diagnostic reports, but you do not support budgets where items are collected in order to make progress on equality, which were not collected in previous budgets, and you try to wash your conscience like this, but for us it is really important to implement policies that go further in achieving that real and effective equality. Ongoing steps are being taken to advance these equality policies and co-responsibility in care, positive parenthood, so important to advance real and effective equality between women and men. In agreement that there are issues that need to be improved and that the agreement adopted in Parliament on 11 May 2017 must be implemented in order to adopt the single payment provision rules as amended by Law 1/2004. You can always get better, but you can't deny that you're doing a lot of things and you're moving on in that line. That is why we are going to support the compromise amendment that we have signed by the Basque Nationalist Group, my group, the Socialist Group and the People's Group and, of course, I am grateful for the effort made by the People's Group to be able to reach agreement, because we believe that it is much more in line with what needs to be done in order to move forward in the right direction. And in the first point, it is included that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to comply with the House's agreement of 11 May 2017 to continue to take the necessary measures to achieve real and effective equality, and to continue to develop positive discrimination measures in the employment policies they develop, with the aim of increasing this employability and access to the women's labour market. The Basque Parliament is also urged to urge the Basque Government to continue to make progress in the area of co-responsibility conciliation, so that care tasks are shared by both men and women, because it is being and will continue to be worked on. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. Eubertarians. Ms. Too much, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. We have as much a question as the question of the patriarchal employments and social politics which promote the disparateness of women and men, represented together by Podemos. We consider the eulogies of Eucoberts as necessary for the end of the unequal and disproportion between women and men. We've all got to work together, we've got a long way to do it, and we've even made part of the way. We see that equality, real equality, must be advanced to attain it; in the streets, at home, in the schools, in institutions, in political parties, and in the whole of society. Shared work is needed, rowing together in the same direction, moving forward. We have a way to go, a lot, but it's fair to admit that we've made progress, that we're better than our mothers were. Equality between women and men requires the shared commitment of all political groups. In our view, it is an extremely important issue that should remain outside the political framework, which requires consensus, joint work. It is not a question of who presents the most initiatives related to this issue, of trying to call themselves the great defenders of equality, pretending to be the only ones working for their achievement. We insist: no one is left to work for equality. We must all contribute. The justification for the motion says that women in Euskadi are exposed to greater precarious employment, the feminization of poverty and to Machist violence. And I'd like to ask you a question, Mrs. Guanche. Does this instability happen only in Euskadin? We agree that the genetic point of view must be the axis of all politics at the date of your interaction. It's important to keep it in mind. But do you really think that you can do equality with a catastrophist speech like that? "You're still criminalizing women because you're poor, because you're alone," you said to the chief physician of the Artola generouss, and that's not at all true, Mrs. Guanche, and you know it. It's no good in politics. And do you really think that when you're lying around, you work for equality? You're getting the opposite of all this: reproach. Your speeches are separated from reality. "Real and specific alternatives are missing", another of his criticisms of the interpellation. But what are the real and specific alternatives of Elkarrekin Can we go beyond fierce criticism? You also say that the department's policies are patriotic and budgets neoliberal in justification. There you have the two mantrants (patriarchs and neoliberals), who you repeat so much that they have lost their meaning. "It's all wrong, it's nothing." Yes, it's allowed to do something, but afterwards everything in speech is reviewed. If you repeat it a thousand times, something that is false will never be true. We've got work to do, of course. A lot and a lot. All together. The principle of equality requires all, but with your manners and discourses you are making the contrary; negation. It seems to us. For the equality of men and women, the agreement, the work, the agreement, the agreement, the ideas, the positive attitudes, we need those who propose it, and we must leave the divisional attitudes, the pessimists, the crude negative criticisms, the propositionless. The amendment we are presenting is clear, it recognises that equality is being worked on, and it urges the Basque Government to continue to implement positive discrimination measures to promote women's access to the labour market, because, of course, it is a reality that we all recognise. And something must be doing well for the department, Mrs Guanche, despite your speeches, because the latest unemployment data published last week reflect this. In November unemployment has fallen and the profile of the unemployed with better development corresponds to that of the women The second point calls on the Basque Government to continue to make progress in matters of co-responsibility conciliation, because we are clear – of course – that the commitment of men is also necessary and essential in order to achieve the equality that we all defend. Lastly, the Congress of Deputies was urged to carry out an analysis of the assistance granted to women victims of gender-based violence, since the amendment of the law regulating them was being considered in order to bring it into line with the social reality of the moment. In Euskadi, Emakunde has decided to promote a process of analysis leading to an autonomous regulation that articulates a specific response of the CAPV in the fight against violence against women, either by reforming the current Equality Act or through a new law on the eradication of gender-based violence, as you well know, and has also been mentioned by some of the spokespersons, because it has also been dealt with on several occasions in this Parliament. In recent times too, and other speakers who have preceded me in speaking have spoken about the pay gap shock plan, also another one of the issues on which work is under way. In our view, it is once again a reflection that the Government is concerned and occupies the situation of inequality in which women find themselves, working every day to improve this imbalance and without renouncing to eradicate it, as it could not otherwise be. And I end up as I started, appealing to the common work of all to achieve equality. In the Spanish state it has also been understood, and Congress has given the approval to the State Pact against Gender Violence, which includes 213 measures, some of which involve amending Law 1/2004, and in particular to the single payment aid. We therefore think it best to wait for this amendment of the basic legislation so that it can be brought into line here in Euskadi. The half-direction signed by the popular party unites their fundamental ideas of our fundamental rights, and we hope that they may be protected by the rest of our groups. Mrs Garrido explained it herself, so I'm not going to explain it again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing the answers, Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u54	Let's split it up, see if I don't leave anything. The first, forgive me if I'm warmed up, I really wanted to be quiet, but it's that the points of view, to the extent that you know things, sometimes, make you light up. The second thing I would like to do is thank EH Bildu for his contributions to our amendment. And the third thing is to remember. I have accompanied many women for a long time in poverty, in macho violence, and since that accompaniment I see obstacles, I see inhumanity, I see a systematic ballading of human beings between some institutions or others, I see a violation of the principle of the best interest in childhood, I see that beyond beautiful plans and what we are talking about here there is a reality that is leaving women out. And that we have to be able to see. That is why I am warming up and that is why I am bringing initiatives, considering that the work of pushing the Government forward here can also be taken into account, although it goes beyond the parties that support it. Having said that, Mrs Garrido, for us this proposal wanted to take a step beyond the conception of macho violence, and the truth is that if you had made an addendum amendment or had commented on the issues that you were missing, we would have been able to include it. It's a shame. We understand that the approach to social policies that are being taken right now in the Department of Employment and Social Policy are deeply patriarchal policies, and I am sorry if you think it is a mantra, but we think it is the most appropriate adjective. It is necessary to name it, it is necessary to go beyond what is said to be done. It is necessary to go to the approach because the plans are beautiful, but if they are not then done, they do not apply and are not evaluated with a deep gender perspective, if we do not look at that pre, if we do not look at the umbrella that marks the actions of our institutions, sometimes we do not realize that we are leaving people on the way. Mrs Sánchez, I tell you that if the problem was time limits, we could also have talked about it, only then, when people don't even answer the emails, because it is difficult to reach agreements. I explain to you: in the Family Pact that you signed with social actors, especially with Confebask, not with feminist organizations, there is a report – I did not say that there is no report – there is a gender impact assessment report, and in fact it is the only one I have managed to find, that what it says is what I read at the beginning of my speech. In other words, the gender perspective is being approached as a partial measure and not as a cross-cutting element, which is what it should be. In the Sinhogarism Plan, in the Inclusion Plan, I haven't found it. I asked, I asked. It's not accessible or accessible. It doesn't matter: I'm going to ask again. I have already informed in this rostrum in my first speech that I am going to ask for all of them, then we will see if I am wrong, then I will admit it, I have no problem, of course. Let us talk about the reform of the GIR, let us talk about it, because it is you who have included the concept of "violence in the family", not us. And allow me to be free to criticize a concept that has been widely overtaken for a very long time. And be calm, because my conscience says no to these budgets, which I also believe do not provide solutions to equality between women and men, is perfectly clean. Don't worry. We all have a long way to go. Yes, certainly, but even a deep, long glance is necessary. Next time, I don't know if I have to explain myself better or listen better, I did say it's not that nothing is done, and it's not that nothing is worth it, it's that we don't think there's enough and it's not well focused, and then we bring initiatives to try to contribute to a different approach. What happens is that it bothers you, it usually bothers you a lot to say that things don't get "perfect." We have a shared and consistently demonstrated commitment in this House, I think week by week, so we are not going to oppose your initiative, we are going to abstain. We are going to abstain because the first point for us is not enough: we consider that they throw the ball back on someone else's roof to see what they can't do and not what they can do. In the second and third points, we consider that this does not change anything, it is to continue what is being done. And on the fourth point, we consider, because we have read it in Emakunde's report, apart from what we can think for ourselves, that equality and co-responsibility is something that goes beyond the family sphere, which is one of the great concepts where we have a difference of opinion. Let us abstain, precisely, from political responsibility. We shall abstain because we believe that it is not enough and that it does not bring anything new, but we will continue to propose what we consider to be good for improvement. Our bet and commitment are not to take a picture of us, but for the sake of consensus we cannot abduct political positions. I am sure that we will have time to work and put concretely what our alternatives are, but, of course, we have said this repeatedly. And I'm done, Madam President. More resources and more real dialogue (the one you hear), and then there is a clear resolution, more law enforcement, more purple glasses, less conviction that everything you do is perfect. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u56	Yes, thank you. Well, for the first time, I'd like to thank Mrs. Guanche for agreeing with the proposal very quickly. Mrs Garrido, I think we had a proposal yesterday, where the ideas of all the groups were united. Then there was no answer. I understand that when you agree with the position that you like, or with your ideas, we work here, but from that point on, you say, "que nos quedado con la nuestra." Well, there was another proposition on the table that meant to unite them all. Mrs. Sánchez, I didn't know we were talking about the Department of Work and Justice, but I thought we were talking about the Epleguus and Society Department, and you've done most of your private talk about the things the Department of Work and Justice has done... I haven't prepared too much for that, but you complained about the deadlines Mrs. Guanche put in. Well, as we're talking about the Department of Job and Justice, we're waiting for you from 2017. And you talked about contracts, and I believe that there are data that are important and that is necessary, but we also have to talk about how these kinds of contracts are, because most of the contracts are partial in women's cases, and that is one of the things that we talk about when we're talking about the pay-alas. So, well, I'm not sure that I can emphasize and congratulate you, but we must begin to see in that direction also another kind of data or other way, what kind of contract it is, the degree of wages and so on. But, well, I won't deny that. And I'd like to finish it with an idea, Mrs. Arreg. I agree, we all have to learn a lot, because the way we've done it hasn't been or hasn't been answered the way they were supposed to. And we shall not say that there has been nothing done (we have never said it, and it is not to-day, at all.) We believe that, from our beginning, you have declared that we have a great deal to learn from these political parties, because we have hitherto had very consistent ways of acting, and I think it will be a great lesson, and therefore, in our case, we agreed with that idea. We often know that diagnostics are demanded, because we always seem to be asking for no concrete proposition here. I think because he asks us for a large dose of reflection (or, at least, we saw it thus), because we have to change ways of understanding social politics or public politics, because we must learn how to place women in the centre, because we must not, I think, succeed in finding out where or how we ought to be able to be able to establish that centre. And I don't say this government. We could talk about diputations, we could talk about townhouses, or we could talk about private areas. We have a great challenge, and I think we owe ourselves, to that half of the crowd, to start doing things differently. And for this I agree: We need to talk, we have to sit down and listen to a lot. So we don't get a deal of agreement or unanimous agreement today, but we've talked about it, we've heard that each one has put his bets on the table, and we'll keep talking, we'll keep on listening, sometimes agreeing and sometimes not. We will go on with ours, and when it was, with so many things, as has been said, in this point of correlated point of view of the other correlative, though we agree. I believe that we ought also to consider what concern we have in it, and to follow it. We thought of Recursive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Euskal Group Pionarian representative, Mrs Garrido from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u58	Yes, ma'am. Our position is closer to the Jeltzian Party and the Social Party. Finally, they file a correction, and we had a few points in the bathroom, so we signed a deal. On the other hand, Mrs Guanche, last week this Member brought an initiative to this Parliament to talk about gender-based violence, a specific initiative, in which there was broad agreement on some points, in the terms of other previous agreements, and on some specific aspects, because this Government, in connection with the referral of the draft law on gender-based violence, must say that it is not fulfilling its duties. But, unfortunately, you were not in that agreement, you abstained, but you were not. And the things we had to hear from Mrs. Arana! I do not know whether because in that case the proponents are not you, and you are trying in this House, full after full – which seems to me very well – I do not know whether by making a career between you or in an attempt to patriminate certain issues, in those eager to want to do things, by being a new party – which is very well – but that we must also respect, and see them with the same mime, when the initiatives come from other groups. I believe that the same has happened to you this time, the same has happened to you, and from your point of view, an initiative has been put forward, but I believe that your initiative, sincerely, could be enriched from many other points – which we have tried to do since the People's Group with our amendment – and, in the end, our positions and postulates contained in that amendment have been reflected in the compromise amendment and that is why we have reached an agreement, on our own initiative and parliamentary play. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u59	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u60	I believe that all the parliamentary groups in this House agree that from all groups we have to work for effective real equality between men and women. We all have to contribute our sand granites, to go all together on that path, which is the one that interests all citizens. And that equality is not a monopoly of any party, it is something of all and so we have to fight absolutely everyone, and it is not a race to come here to say who does more, who does less, because, obviously, the political parties that we have had more time in politics have had more time to do more things, but I believe that the important thing is to work on that line all of us. Mrs Etxebarrieta has been surprised that I referred to policies that have been carried out by the Department of Labour and Justice, but if we are talking about that we are implementing policies, that there has to be a gender perspective, that there has to be a cross-cutting approach, and if we are talking about temporary problems, and it is important to reduce, to try to combat fraud in that temporality and in partiality, it is obviously necessary to highlight policies that have been carried out by this Basque Government from the Department of Labour and Justice, and that have also had important results, because they are positive, and it is important to highlight them. Then I don't understand why he misses you. You have been talking about temporality, partiality and problems, and you are surprised that good policies are being made to reduce that situation. With this, it is very normal to talk about it and, in addition, to value those good results. From the outset, we felt it was important to make a compromise and we did so with the People's Party because we saw it more focused on the policies to be pursued. We did not agree with the need to draw up that diagnostic study and, therefore, we did not agree to sign that compromise amendment. It's okay! Each party can have its own ideas, consider whether it can be better or worse and if we do not agree, because we do not agree on that transaction, we will agree on other occasions, on other matters. We looked for the transaction that was most consistent with the approaches that we felt we had to make, and that is what we have carried out. You also wanted to carry out a diagnostic study of all the plans, all the policies, all the protocols, but when you gave examples of situations that seemed to you to have to be corrected, you did not talk about points of those plans, of those policies, of those protocols. They have set examples of Lanbide or income guarantee income, so I don't know exactly what they were looking for. They set examples that had nothing to do with those plans and then directly say, "Well, let's do the diagnostic study." We did not agree because it did not make much sense and, therefore, that is what we have defended. On the other hand, they also questioned that, for example, because there was talk of family support plans, there was talk of birth. For that may be that we are carrying out patriarchal policies. Man, if we're talking about a family support plan, obviously, there are issues that affect equality between men and women. But they will also have to talk about birth, and about the problems that birth is having within our society right now, because of the difficulties that young people have, for a number of policies that also have to be carried out for those families that decide to have their children, because no one is being forced to have their children, but those families that have it and have more difficulty in being able to move forward, because it is also taken into account, and it is data, that in the area of poverty the greatest affected are families with children, because you will also have to make policies that have to be supported in this line. All policies are necessary. We must make policies in favour of equality between men and women, we must make policies to support families, and they are all perfectly compatible, and we must all take care of them, because they reflect situations that affect all citizens, and we must make policies that try to alleviate the disadvantaged situations that may occur within our society. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u61	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u62	Thank you again, Mrs. President. There's work to be done, a lot of work to be done. I think today's speech is fine and we have all shared that we have work left to move forward, recognizing, too, that we have been part of the way, perhaps slower, perhaps less than we would like to all – no, perhaps not, it is safe – but it is fair to acknowledge that it has been done. What we deny, and that's why your way of speaking, Mrs. Guanche, we deny the greatest. I am talking about "institutional maltreatment", "lack of political will", "lack of sensitivity", "inhumanity", that "you do not care for the best interests of the child". Well, we deny the older one, Mrs. Guanche, and I can't admit that because it's not true. That's not true! And those speeches, of course, from our point of view, do nothing to help achieve equality between men and women, because, of course, we understand that what is needed is agreement, listening, consensus, moving forward, but from our point of view, these kinds of speeches do not help. We have already told you on more than one occasion, and the tone is good, but I think that does not help, because, if you really are looking for that equality, I think you say that the government is doing nothing or that it is inhuman or that the policies that you propose are institutional abuse... Well, we deny the older one, and it's hard to keep moving and talking. Of course, the gender perspective is important, totally agreed. And I think it has also become clear that all groups, and also the Government, understand that it is important. We also believe that it is important to speak, to make speeches, to criticise and to present concrete and real initiatives, to be effective and to be able to carry them out, but we also do not believe that this is a problem that is only taking place in Euskadi. Before I asked her a question, because obviously in other peoples, and Mrs Etxebarrieta mentioned, where other political parties are ruling, or in other autonomous communities, in other states, and even to which we look, there are also inequalities...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u63	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u64	Therefore, it is not a question of adopting a plan. Plans and laws don't solve everything, Mrs. Guanche. We have told him on many occasions, because the paper admits everything and then we have to put it into practice and it has to be possible to put into practice what is being put into practice. I must confess to you that I am not at all a comic booker, so I don't know what you've done about Asterrix and Obelix. And then even Mrs. Sánchez has told you about it, you mentioned the concrete cases, and one that appeared in the media was serious, but the story of a wide passage, and everything agrees not with the data that has professions: four women were mentioned; there were only two of them in the profession. And I want you to know that Eukko's been introduced to reform a plan and make it better for its own good. And, for example, about the finger mark, there would be no such thing as a matter of your own in this example. They wouldn't have been given because, clear and clean, you've always got your finger. And I will stay with the positive side: we have great challenges to make, to improve things, and our will has been thus manifested. We expect later on to continue in concert for this genuine equality. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together for the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 45; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u66	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Popular Group, the Basque Socialists, and the Middle Amendors who have signed the media. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; December 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u67	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Second point on the subject list: "Mortion, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Uai Uruzuno Goldsti Group, concerning the transfer of rights. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours. to present the initiative and to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u68	Good noon, everyone. We've had enough of this time turning around like that d'you know, going around and round, and it looks like we're still going to continue. A little bit of a theme for textization, I'll read a sentence. It's a sentence from Erkore's Department, November 26, after the Mist Committee of Transfers had completed, a phrase from the rating of that meeting. And he says: "There they are in the mines, encima, there Vendo a Euskadi. Así que tumos contentos." We're in the middle of the three-two railroad tramoes. We think that's a faithful photograph of the problem we're dealing with. We believe that this phrase conceals our weaknesses in the same way, and we feel a certain complexity. It's like a complex, trying to hide our weaknesses, and it's like it's an incredible achievement that you want to sell to our people. We see people trying to deceive us in that phrase. "And, above all, they have come to Euskadi." Yes, they've come to Euskadi to tell us there's no social security. They've come to Euskadi to tell us there's no social security. And if there's no Social Security there's social insecurity, it's pretty logical. And we all believe that we agree on the necessity of social security, of social excitement, of the necessity of improving the conditions of social life and of the conditions of life. I have here a text, which I should not read three or four days ago in this court, but under the circumstances of which he, the chief physician, had published two or three days ago, I can read it. And this is a text he writes or a document for a potential agreement between the Basque Country and PNV. And he says, among other things: "Consider that the immediate transfer of social security competences to the Basque Autonomous Community is an essential condition for improving the situation of pensioners". Improval is supported. It is said that it is indispensable for pensioners and other citizens to improve the conditions of life, but it comes from Madrid to tell us that there will be no transfer of Social Security. And we really think that's the problem. And at the same time where necessity is placed, we are told, on the other hand, that, according to this complex one, the complex is said to be, "that the complexity of that right hand, if it be necessary, is not yet a transfer of social security." "The parties share, because of the complexity of the matter, that the inclusion of Social Security in the calendar is not urgent." But Mr Azpiazu, in his text, says that it is essential. So, guk galdetzen duguna hori, is it not urgent to improve, for example, the lives of pensioners in Euskadi? Esan dakieke hours the berry pentsionists? Is that right? Is that right? Is that right? Is that right? Nahiz age hemen law bat egon I repeat, that the person of Donostania, though there was a law which said forty years ago what concerns the Basques, or the people of the community here, and what is there to be done for 40 years without having done it, and that there was a certain number of political interests. Can you say that to thousands and thousands of pensioners who go out every week in the street? This discussion may be followed by yesterday's. We were in the budget yesterday, and this is perfect, presupuestary. It can't be answered nowadays, because we can't form low pensions from pensions. And we're told that's done through the RGI. And we say yes, if there are 190.000 pensioners at the bottom of their salary, only 15,000 is answered by RGI. Si hay 1900 pensis por debajo del SMI, mediante la RGI only was atiende a 155,000 deellas. Esa la cussion. We put that up and that's especially it because we don't have Social Security here. This is especially because we have no Social Security here. So that's where we have to place the problem. The problem is spontaneous, and as I have said, I believe we all accept the use of this instrument and the necessity of that instrument. Porque es a prioririum, tala y como se recoge en la enimenda transacional figada por PNV, PSE y Podemos. For my part, I should like Mr. Egibar, later on, if he would explain what he is talking about, especially when he says 'Peritarian', 'Peritarian'. What's a secretive? For I repeat, "proitarian" and "premiatic" and "premia," and then we say "maybe not so urgent." We all agree that it is a priority, because not having Social Security means not being able to affect a third of our finances. It means not being able to decide on our economic contingencies. It means losing control of our public assets and, ultimately, it means not being able to count on 8 billion euros that are ours. Can't count on 8 billion euros that are ours. Beraz, aurkitzen gara, behin eta berriz azaldu izan dugun bezala, arazo estruktural baten aurrean. We are faced with a structural problem and we would also dare to say that there is something rocky about it. We have a Socialist Party that is in the Basque Executive and is in the central government in Madrid. And it seems that we are all of us in the necessity of transfering this agreement, though we are now told from Madrid that there is no "yes," now no, but the only fact is that there is still one fact, and that it is not yet in the place where it is to be received. Is it zein da arazoa? Beriro diugu, arazoa strukturala da. Arazoa ez da PP edo PSOE, edota VOX edo Ciudadanos, arazoa strukturala da eta uste dugu Pablo Casadok azken egunetan honen inguruan esandakoak ere nahiko ondo laburbiltzen duela egoera. Pablo Casadok orin de la gutxi zioen, egutegi honen harira eta transferentzien harira, "we will not tolerate the transfer of prisons". "We won't tolerate it." Then there will be no prisons, neither will there be prisons. Why? Because Pablo married said so. That is the structural problem we face, that here the partisan interests of certain Spanish political parties are above the law, above the law, an organic law. But the partisan interests, I repeat, of certain Spanish political parties – and I am not referring only to the People's Party – are above an organic law. That's our problem, and I think we're all conscious of it. We're all conscious of that, too. At the beginning of the law, Mr. Erkoreka said, and recently Senator Biltex said, "Hiy quer pie en." Of course, we see some results in Andalucia and there's the asoma el lobo y tal y cual... "Hay que poner pie pair." And we say, de acuerdo, hay que poner pie ed, pero, uno, why do you say that? Why do you call it "hay que poner pie pair"? Esaten da inboluzio betean gaudelako, inboluzio betean gaudelako, ez?, éta inboluzio horretan, I repeat, the problem is not the People's Party. Here is shared program, shared program, shared 155. To the smallest wink of the People's Party, the PSOE is already talking about 155. The slightest wink starts talking about 155. The programme is shared: 155, recentralisation and, if we are in a hurry or if we are in a bit more hurry, even to recover health and education for the central competences. Structural problem. That's what they say. And second question, what do you mean, "foot in wall"? "Pie en walle" discurtso batan exacta, adierazpen bezala, osso ondo dago. Sounds good, "foot on the wall." But what do you mean? What's the "political wall foot"? In our view, according to Euskal Herria Bildu, we are in a time of political deciphering what "foot in wall" means. And that is the second question we raised to the Basque Nationalist Party. For Euskal Herria Bildu, "foot in wall" means articulating institutional social majorities based on a country project. Zeren, beast, herri honek marko horretan yellow Egyptian du. Eta ikusten ari gara urterik bumpe, errecentralizzio Entonces este Parlamento hace una lecatura base a ese problem, a redo, a Landal or, in itself, this people, men and women of this country, lose as we are losing ourselves. Therefore, today, in our application, we wish to receive this more especially: Before the question of the structure of Spain, where the political table is in full possession, and where the left hand cannot get out of it, no hay tercera vía. El Federalism en España ha mutote ancer de nacer. You know, when you're in love with him, you know, when you're in love with him? And we believe, first, that we must question the standard of communication with the Spanish State, and, as to the transfer of Social Security, which does not proceed from Spain, perhaps in this country, we must begin to think of the manner in which we proceed. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u69	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. I think, yes, that we all agree, and that we all accept the importance of this transfer, and talk of transferments which have not been transferred, and once more, shall we say that it is about the fulfillment of the State, which has not been completed for 40 years? And in this sense, we have a good view of the two of us from Podemos that we have finally freed the Mist Committee of Transfers, as the Basque Law demanded, and that they should put a calendar of transfers on the table. And, in this regard, we continue to think that it is necessary to go a step further and achieve competences that will allow progress in self-government on economic and social issues. And so we reaffirm ourselves once again and say yes what under what One example is industrial policy. Yesterday we had full amendments to the entire budget bill. So, what is the point of having industrial policy competence if we continue to stick blindly with a policy that has proved to be unsuccessful and the government has no reservations about allowing the lockdown to La Naval? That is why I think we need to think about how we are going to give these powers content, and do so. Think about how to delve into self-government to create a real country project and build a plural Euskadi in which no one overthinks or feels different and in which equality, social rights, employment and feminism are the central pillars of this Euskadi. And in order to be able to carry out this project, in order to draw up the lines, as we said before, we welcome the fact that, after seven years of blockade, the Joint Commission on Transfers has met, and we believe that steps need to be taken to develop an inclusive and plural self-government for the whole of Basque citizenship. We therefore believe that it is a priority to defend a system of universal social foresight, sufficient and, of course, public. That is the priority for us, for the system to be public, universal and of quality. Why? For it is this and only this that is really the guarantor of a life worthy for the whole of citizenship, for the total of Basque citizenship. That is why in our amendment we made it clear and expressed the type of system we want; we are very clear that we want a public, solidarity and distribution system. Because there is a deep ideological debate, which is not given alone in Euskadi or that is not given alone in Spain; it is an ideological debate between two types of models in struggle: one based on public systems of distribution – like the one we currently have, which is certainly much better, and which needs reforms to guarantee greater income and raise benefits – against another model based on a mixed system that keeps pensions and other public coverages at insufficient levels, so that they have to be completed with private plans so that citizens can have decent coverage, which, moreover, we understand is insolidary and unfair, but, moreover, would leave out the protection to those who have less resources. That is why we do not share Mr Azpiazu's recent statements, in which he denounced the Basque Government's commitment to award EPSVs tax as a supplementary pension system and raised even more tax advantages in this regard. So, more tax advantages for private pension models that humble people, especially the most vulnerable, cannot access. Why does the Basque Government, we wonder, take advantage of the question that some people are asking about the viability of the public pension system in order to offer aid to private systems? Therefore, what we say to the members of the Government is that deepening in self-government means ensuring a dignified life for the Basques and Basques, and that is only possible by guaranteeing a system of public and universal social security, a system whose public benefits are sufficient for a dignified life and which does not oblige anyone to hire private supplements. That is why, for us, that is the important thing, and we have been defending it in this Parliament, every time we discuss the social security system, and we say, "transfers, yes", but above all, what model we want. That is why we believe that the transfer of social security must be approached and that it must be carried out with the utmost rigour, because social security affects the only income of tens of thousands of older people and workers in different situations covered by social security. And because, despite the fact that this transfer is a matter of certain complexity which is certainly not resolved with occurrences, it must not be an excuse not to be addressed. And this debate, which must necessarily be calm, on account of responsibility both – I am not going to get involved – of the Basque Government and of the Government of Spain, has governed whoever has ruled, has been stuck in reproach for 40 years. And as I said: given the complexity of the transfer of social security, we believe that the institutions of the Joint Transfer Commission should be urged to establish a specific timetable for the implementation, without further delay, of Article 18.2 and the fifth transitional provision of the current Statute of Gernika. However, we understand that so many pensioners, who have been fighting for decent pensions on the street for more than a year, cannot be deceived, and we say that the solution to the problem of the sustainability of pensions, of social security as a whole, does not pass by whether or not the transfer takes place, under no circumstances does it pass by whether we manage it in Euskadi or is managed by the whole State. We understand that the solution goes through how it is managed, why social security model we want: one designed to cover all people or one care to cover only the minimums. And the solution to the problem of pension sustainability is to put aside a model of precariousness installed in our country's employment, to bet on a model of added value, where existing employment is stable and of quality. That is why we do not want to repeat cases such as those in Lanbide in recent years, where it is clear how transfers made, if not accompanied by a political project of highly social cutting, can have harmful consequences for the citizens of Euskadi. In previous debates we did not reach agreement on this issue because it was only about the transfer itself, not the model. However, it seems to us very positive that this time we have succeeded in introducing into the compromise amendment the model that we can defend from Elkarrekin, and so we put into our amendment, a model that guarantees from the public its sufficiency and that does not force workers to resort to private pensions with the speech of fear. I ended by reaffirming the value of the agreed transaction; we welcome the meeting of the Joint Transfer Commission after seven years of blockade, although we are aware that it is only a meeting and that further steps must be taken behind it and, precisely for this reason, we call for a timetable for the transfer of social security in compliance with the current Gernika Statute and, more importantly, for us, as I said, that this transactional amendment defends a system of public social security, universal and ensures a life worthy of all citizens. In conclusion, I would like to state that for our coalition, for Elkarrekin Podemos, self-government must be a tool to manage the collective, to manage everyone's, the public, at the service of a fair and equal Basque society. Therefore, we believe that it should not be to implant unfair and unequal models, for much txapela Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u71	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u72	Gracias, president. Well, the Socialist Group will once again defend in this session the dialogue, the negotiation and the agreement for the resolution of political problems, to reach points of encounter from the differences, to have developed our self-government in the past, to continue to do so in the present and, as a better guarantee, to make it a success for the future. It is an unequivocal and obviable bet on the part of Basque socialism – when we have been in the government and in the opposition – and it is an unequivocal bet of the PSOE, which, when it has been in the governments of Spain, has fostered the broadest compliance that has been given to our Statute and, when it has been in the opposition, has been loyal to the commitments made by governments led by other parties in Euskadi or Spain. If the agreements of 26 November in the Joint Commission on Transfers had led to them by the Rajoy Government, we would say the same about their value, not that of these three specific matters which are agreed, but because the essential climate of loyalty and collaboration between the institutions would have been restored. And in fact, with the agreement on the Concert we did, and I will not tire of doing so, we Basque Socialists did, as we have always done, and the PSOE did, then in the opposition, as has always ratified these agreements in Congress. But with the subjects and services that could be transferred and with the net competences that our Statute contains, it had not been possible. It had been possible to make promises, but it had not been possible to make a gap in the technical agenda, which clears the path of difficulties, nor to make a gap in the political agenda, which clears the path of agreements. What has happened is that this new time has been opened, that those who promoted it should know how to read that within a single month, only one, the President of the Government of Spain and the Lehendakari agreed two clear decisions: first, an agreement that would unlock the cases that were in the courts because of the interference that the previous Government had to systematically resort to everything that was done, and that the first agreement is that it has allowed, among other things, Basque public employees to begin to recover part of their salary rights; and an agreement that a commission will work on the updated report on non-transferred matters, which the Basque Government approved a year ago, and that it will start with those where the Constitutional had already pronounced favorably. And these five months have allowed for loyal and rigorous work, with a clear political commitment, where technical and economic discrepancies have been corrected, because there was a clear, political will on both sides. And the result is not just two sections of railway and a few kilometres of motorway; the result is the reopening of a path that must continue rigorously, loyally, and without deceiving either oneself or the citizens, and without a single renunciation of nor a single competition from those contained in the Statute. That is what bilaterality has, that word which is so much charged with symbolism, but which is already provided for in our own Statute, precisely to make possible that of what we are talking about today. And that's what the Copo derived from the Concert, another mechanism that is based on that bilaterality that requires the agreement to make the relevant economic valuations, which is what we were defending and what we are defending. Those who do not seem to have understood it have been Bildu, who has presented a proposal more aimed at putting the finger in the eye of the PNV and the Basque Government than a real concern for the problems of social security. Because, by the way, Mr Urruzuno, that there is no Social Security in Euskadi is not true. There is social security in Euskadi, fortunately there is a state public system that guarantees citizens' pensions. That's not all I should be doing? Yeah. What needs to be improved? Of course. But there's social security. Fortunately there is a solidarity box between generations and between territories that works, and it makes us defend it and we will always defend it, because, moreover, its proposal brings us one thing and the other – something, on the other hand, quite common in that group – because in the first point it calls for the immediate transfer of the management of Social Security, and in the second one says that there is nothing to ask because that model is exhausted. The two things are not compatible: ask what is there and ask, at the same time, what is not there, right? And then, I want to insist, is that we like the state public system and it is our political priority. That is the one that needs to be improved, the one that needs to be strengthened and the one that needs to be guaranteed its quality and availability in the future. And we don't like mixed systems, which have come up here from the Basque, from txapela. But this proposal offers us a good opportunity to remember how convenient it would be for everyone to reinforce what is already there and not to despise it, how convenient it has been and what is being the path of dialogue, negotiation and agreement – and how dangerous it would be to seek a shortcut – how convenient it would be to pay well for this ground on which we are now treading, to do so by all the forces that promoted the change of government in Spain on 1 June and also those who did not, because in recent days we have seen an alarm among many because there are those who have broken into the institutions advocating for the end of what we have. It is true that this dynamic has been given, when others had been doing so for some time, Mr Urruzuno, from the opposite extreme. Because the values and principles that have made us progress by promoting social cohesion – much better, but as we have never had it – have been built up since the agreement and loyalty, not from the absolute demolition of what could be taken advantage of. And so with this effort has been made health, public education, the system of social protection, progress in equality, our freedoms, the development of our Ertzaintza and of the Basque, always around large consensuses that are being questioned in their own pillars from the two extremes that feed back to themselves because they are justified in the fundamental: in the disregard for that journey that has been made in the constitutional and statutory framework. Man, and when you speak of "structural problem", for I have to tell you that the structural problem you have, because I am surprised that you now want to become valiant of the statutory covenant, to which you have fought dialectically and not dialectically, shaking certain attitudes that from the violence pushed – I do not want to describe them – actions and events that are not recommended to go against, precisely, the Statute, because I want to remind you of a theme – I do not like to talk about these issues, because they have overcome it –: when ETA was killed more precisely after the adoption of the Statute of Gernika, when more murders occurred. It would not be because they agreed precisely with the framework at that time. It's true that we're at another time, but I think we all have to make ourselves look at the subject. You still have a structural problem; you say you want to change, but you don't just do it; you say you've changed, but you've just disguised yourself for the moment; you say you want to do things differently, but you don't just cook it; you want to play institutional loyalty and political utility. We'll see what that amago you've done for the budgets, but for now it's hard for you to finish that step. Therefore, it also seems important for each one to do a little self-criticism when certain things are said. The Socialist Group believes that this is a more opportune time than ever for reflection on the part of all those who are here to know what we can do, how we can channel it and what we will do to ensure it. And we are convinced that what would be best for all of us, without exception, but above all for citizens, their rights and freedoms, would be to strengthen this open time for dialogue, negotiation, agreement and institutional loyalty. Here there are responsibilities of the two governments that have so far demonstrated will, and that is why we are appealing to all political forces, also to you, and to all social actors. That is why we are grateful and satisfied with this amendment which we have agreed with the Nationalist Party and with Podemos, because I believe it defines the situation very well: a situation which has not occurred in seven years is positively valued, which is the call of the Joint Commission on Transfers, an unequivocal bet is made for the welfare state and for the defence of the public, and we reiterate our commitment that the management of the social security system should also be incorporated as a matter of priority, which is certainly something that reflects the government agreement that we have signed, within what is contained in our current Statute of Gernika.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u73	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u74	Good morning, everyone. Although it's not a new debate, it's true, I think from Mr. Uruzuno's initiative, on the one hand, I think an interpenetration; the answer, I think, as a whole, was the appropriate answer to the President, but, towards the present day, commitments, as we have mentioned, even in the earlier conversations, even this year, on the 1st of March, I think we decided something of the same kind between the various parliamentary groups. And this, by the hand of today, gives a new force to fun, if not enough to get in touch with her, with the proper firmness, that preference which this Chamber pays as a priority, to put it on the table. Then he has his senses, I think he has a positive effect. What can happen to-day, this Chamber, from 75 to PP, may surprise us, and it may be a unanimous decision to ask and demand the same thing from 66. So this Chamber is 88%. And, like things are, it's not funny protection, it's for fun. You said it, and we agree on the first point, that when you say the management of the economic social Security regime is to be introduced into this calendar or plan, you can't stay outside. And then you asked me what that "priitarian" means to us. Well, I think it's 'practical' even for fun, because it's got a first-class character, and we say so too, with the force this Chamber gives it in the text, it's clear. I think it's much stronger, this resolution will last a lot longer than the Madrid Governments. I don't know what's going to happen there, but I don't know what's going to happen there. I don't know what's going to happen here. I don't know what your current government will be doing today, I mean Madrid, but the position, like today, was a solid and clean year. And in the meantime, many things have happened, and all the world and all of us do our exams. But what you're talking about is inevitable. And it is true, though you question it, and say that the model of communication of the present day is exhausted, well, 39 years prove it: Because in the end you have not, because we have not fulfilled, or kept, or kept, the state. If there's a disease, it's a spontaneous deficiency, starting from the beginning. We're not going to repeat the whole story here, but even if it's time, with determination every time it's time, when you say why we understand this "pritarian" thing, it's clear, I don't like that expression anymore, but I don't like it. Face it and hold it. And we know with determination that the patience of some of them is not agreeable to democratic and political, but political patience must also be applied if you oppose it with determination. The clear thing is, patience, firmness, we must advance. And today, in this debate, we support the protection of this subject from a large and long majority, which is important, and must be underlined. Why then is there anything else to do and how to resist when it comes? What I wanted to mention here is the first and second point of the transaction. It's true it might be exhausted or out of contact, but we'll see what a step it takes. A first meeting, at least, after seven years! That's right. We know the results, then the liturgis and the political expressions they have been describing; some of them were obliged to disperse it, but it seems as if we were at the beginning of a relationship. What we don't know is how long it will last. And therefore what is said at the first point is, that we approve of the way of dialogue, negotiation, and agreement, that we value it positively. I think that's something I can't deny. And that this does not cover the strategy of neglecting, of not keeping it, in the course of all the decades. And then it is mentioned, at the second point, that Mr. Bollain has remarked, as the public system is one of the pillars of the well-being, that this also is in agreement, that it is natural. Because it's finally the most powerful system handle. And I think it's all right here, because it's in the report sent by the M.M., when we talk about Social Security, we don't just mention economic regime, there are other tabs in the whole of it. For here, when it has been mentioned, it may be a course of yesterday's to-day, if we are speaking of it, do not cease to talk of RGI, and, in the end, from RGI, to complete the least pensions by means of the means, but that is not Social Security. But what we cannot say is one and the other one thing. If we're talking about pensions, we'll talk about pensions, and if we're talking about others, it's about how the universe of those who follow the conditions of the RGI is capable of becoming social friends, but how is it another debate? But I'd like to say that there's the jurisdiction of the La Lan's Vision, the power of the poíticas activeas de Empulo. That they all form together with the economic regime, and that they are, if anyone wants to look at them, 32. Tab, 33, 34, 35, 36. It's not just Régimen Economico de la Securidad Social. That's it, too. But it's all in the package too. And what we've agreed to today, as we agreed on March 1st, we say, "You're asking me to work with the Spanish Government, and you're going to have a degree of privilege in Community Security, transferring rights to the Elegane Autonom. " We are doing all sorts of things, not one hand. And that is why we say of the young man, and I think it matters, because if we protect this point with the other two, it is of importance to give effective steps on the way to negotiation: "To urge the Basque Government to include, as a matter of priority, the following: gure gobernu-akordioan ere azaltzen da, baisa Parlamentu honek ere onartu zuen, in the plan and timetable of work to be developed with the Government of Spain, the transfer to the Basque Autonomous Community of competences in the field of social security, in accordance with the provisions of Article 18.2 and the fifth transitional period. And these powers are Labour and Social Security Inspection, to complete the transfer of active employment policies; National Social Security Institute; Social Marine Institute; Economic Social Security Regime; and Fogasa, Wage Guarantee Fund. This is the package we proclaim, and, as far as possible, our seconds are to be put on top of the negotiation table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u75	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. The next round of the group that hasn't run any corrections, representative of the Basque Potula Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Urruzuno, there is Social Security in the Basque Country, in spite of you, and in spite of, finally, other groups or parties that have never liked there, but there is, and for many years. I do not know whether Mr Azpiazu said that it was essential to transfer to improve pensions, because Mr Azpiazu knows perfectly well that the planned transfer in this area does not give rise to any pension. So, I don't know if he said it; I'd be a little surprised if he said it, but, well, if he did, he'll know why he said it, but he's wrong. Mr Urruzuno, the rights of pensioners are safe thanks to the national system, which has been managing and guaranteeing the recovery of Basque pensioners for more than 10 years, despite being deficient in the Basque Country since before the crisis, and since before unemployment will increase. The Basques receive their pension thanks to that national solidarity system that we have, because otherwise, they would not receive that pension. And that aside from all those retired Basques, they get the pension and go to Benidorm, because it would increase that deficit much more than the Basques have. And they do have Basque Social Security, depending on what they've listed, like the rest of the Spaniards, and how it couldn't be otherwise. What I can't admit is that you tell us that we can't count on the 8 billion that are ours. But how are they yours? Neither yours nor mine; no, they are not ours, Mr Urruzuno, they are of the contributors. It is the guarantee that you can collect your pension. I don't know who's contributing and how much they're contributing or what they're not. But how are they ours? Hey, and the 11,000 deficit you have to pay! Do we pay them? With what? No, you tell me with what, because, of course, you say to me, "8,000 of income," and, listen, the 11,000 of last year's expenditure, 3 billion euros of deficit, whose are they? Whose are they? Man, let Mr Urruzuno come to me to defend the Statute and compliance with the Gernika Autonomy Statute, in short, I suppose that within the policy of seeing how we put our finger in the eye between nationalist parties is very well, but, come on, you will understand that the credibility you have is little, little to say none. Anyway, you were telling us, "structural danger." Listen, you are, your party are, your group are one of the structural dangers of Spanish democracy for over 40 years, because you have attacked it from the beginning. And so on and on, let's see, Spanish democracy has survived. Mr Bollain, public pension model, we already have it. I don't know anyone who's against it. It is improved, and it is improveable, and what will have to be done is to put the conditions in place for it to last many years. And we'll have to reform it, but, well, it's not the time. Mr. Pastor, tell me about the court release. Listen, if you abandon your obligations and defend the competences of the Spanish Government, it seems to you that it is good news because it unlocks resources, I will have to tell you that it is very bad news for us. That's not unlocking leaving your functions and competencies. Mr Egibar, I am going to agree with one thing, that this GNP which is to be approved here will last longer than the Spanish Government. There you and I are going to match, we're going to match. Yeah, that's where we agree. And it will last longer than the Government of Spain, because in the transaction that you have signed, in the first paragraph it says "seven years are unlocked", casually the seven years that Mr Urkullu has been president of the Basque Government, of lehendakari. When was it unlocked the previous time? When Mr. Ibarretxe stopped being lehendakari. Do I have to remind you that the Basque Nationalist Party did not want to receive competences and transfers of competences? Are we talking about active policies, Mr. Egibar? We had to change the Basque Government and with a socialist lehendakari, then yes, we could negotiate the transfer of active policies, 35 years later!, 10 years after the last autonomous community had already received them!, because you refused, because this is a matter of loyalty, and you sell as non-compliance with the Statute of Gernika... As a political excuse is fine, what happens is that they are not worth the Gernika Statute for what you want. And when we talk about this matter, Mr Pastor, of Social Security, we have already raised, last year for these dates, 12 months, 13 months, listen, ask for the transfer of Social Security as the Statute says, as the Constitution says and as the Constitutional Court has already interpreted. That's the legal thing, that's the Statute, that's compliance with the Statute! Or is Mr. Egibar, the Basque Nationalist Party, unique, reliable and true interpreter of the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Gernika? Doesn't seem very democratic, does it? In democratic systems, when someone disagrees, that's what constitutional courts are for. Hey, Mr. Egibar, we're talking 89-year sentences. "Neither the People's Party had ruled nor was it expected to rule," from the year 95, 96. Of course, the lehendakari used to say that that's "broken goods." Hey, that's the merchandise that's agreed to in the Statute. Why instead of saying that the Statute is not being complied with – which is not true: you are the ones who do not want to comply with it – they say, "We don't like this Statute, we want to change it, we want this competition like this"? Why don't you say it? But then he also tells us how he intends to finance that pension deficit. And no matter how many Members of Parliament approve this GNP, which, by the way, on the first point, as I say to you, I would like to see seven years of blockage stopped, because of Mr Urkullu, because we could accept it. The second paragraph that you put, man, that the system guarantees the welfare of all citizens, social security. No, listen, the contributors. No, it's just that we're always mixing here, of the citizens who contribute, that's the social security system. If you, Mr Bollain, or the Basque Nationalist Party, or the Socialist Party, what you are asking us is that the social security system and pensions must be a kind of national GIR, for I will say no, because it is also not the competence of the State; that is its own competence and we all know it. I, Mr Egibar, did not bother to repeat the amendments this time – the same one that we tabled a year ago, two years ago, three years ago – but that the Basque Nationalist Party voted in this Parliament against receiving the transfer of Social Security as the Constitution and the Statute says, which, by the way, you forget, Mr Pastor, because you signed that with us two years ago, you forget to put in the third paragraph, "that you negotiate according to the Statute", you fail to say, "and the Constitution" – which says that the management of Social Security is the exclusive competence of the State. Yes, Mr Egibar, read it – "and how the Constitutional Court interprets how that is resolved" – which, by the way, are cited in the Basque Government's own file. And when he tells us about unemployment, they also tell him in the Basque Government's files that he is outside the social security system and that he is not managing the security system, and he has a ruling from the Constitutional Court in that regard as well. You can try to deceive everyone all the time and repeat the same things many times – this has already been invented by Goebbels a long time ago – but you and I know that this is an issue of institutional and constitutional loyalty and, of course, when Mr Urruzuno comes to us here, on the one hand, demanding compliance with the Statute of Autonomy and you too, but not, because what you want is something else and you just broke down the Statute and the Constitution, because you are not very credible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Urruzuno, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u78	Well, I don't know where to start. Pastor jaunari weretzunez, eta pixka bat Bollain jaunari era bai, zeren uste dut biok ére bide antzekotik ekin diozuela kontu honi. We have to differentiate plans. When we are talking about that if we have to, once and for all, transfer a transfer, what is not possible is to start talking about models. It can't be done. That's the typical Spanish left trap. No, no, Just like Evaristo said in his video: cheaters! No, no, It's not about that. I remember Mr. Uriarte's appearance –Roberto Uriarte, is not Euskal Herria Bildu's – in the Post office of Self-Government. Mr Uriarte said: "The Basque self-government is like a Ferrari, it is a Ferrari, but the problem is that we have it parked in the garage and it is not made use of". Then, then, he said – and it's Podemos, it's not Euskal Herria Bildu's – "Only Euskal Herria Bildu, when he's been in the Gipuzkoa Diputation, has used the Ferrari." He said it; I don't know if it's true or not. But to answer Mr Bollain, of course, if we have the Ferrari in the garage, everyone will decide whether to use it or not; if there is no Ferrari in the garage, even if you want to use it one way or another, you won't be able to use it. So you cheat the fair ones, because I can agree on the model that you pose and on the model that Mr. Pastor also poses, but the question is that, regardless of models, we don't have Ferrari, we don't have Renault-5, we don't have Seat-127... We don't have anything in the garage. That's the point. Eta hori da eztabaida honen arazoa. Structural. When I say "structural," I mean that, Mr. Pastor. I mean, no, I don't mean to... I mean, we're in full involution, with a political board escorted to the right. The right in Spain sets you a trap, from which you cannot get out. There is absolute re-centralization, there is application of harsh social cuts to the population, but the right gives ideological coverage based on quasi-universal constitutional values, and there is the trap that the PSOE cannot escape. That's the problem. That's why I'm saying there's no third way. There's no third way. We are in full involution, we are at a stage where nothing else will come from the Spanish State, and, therefore, we will have to think of something. And two or three things to Mr. Egibar. Of course, the RGI and pensions get mixed up because we have that problem. As we have no Social Security, we have no opportunity of curing pensions, so we must search for gaps through the RGI. And the RGI answers today's response. I said: Only 15,000 from 190.000 pensioners. But that is why, because we want to seek a hole in what is to be a pension by society, but that, in the heart, is the lack of self-preservation, which is what we have. Orduan, ahaztu aurretik, guk gure zuzenketaren alde bozkatuk dugu guretzat inportantea dellako esteaa harreman-eredu du jau erab agutua dagoela. Horregatik ez dugu onartzen zuen erdibideko lehen puntu hau. Esaten denean, "value positively" – sozialistek beren hasierako ekimenean jasotzen zuten "celebra"–. Hau hirugarren puntuarekin, guretzat, kontraesankorra da, esaten denean "priority character", but if we are appreciating that after seven years of blockade they have come, if we are applauding that, the Spanish state will say: "Well, we expect another seven years, because then, when we go, they will applaud us; we can wait 7 or 17 years, because then they applaud us, they put us red carpet". Orduan, hori da honekin kontraesankorrean datorrena. Guk uste dugu "values positively", no; the Basque Parliament denounces that they have had to spend seven years to give us something that... Then this first point is important to us. Then the third point is also important to us. "Autonomía," "State," "credibid." .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. "Sí, lo decidide por ciudadía vasca hay que cumplorlo." That must be done. Now, when the Spanish state or the central government says to us...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u79	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u80	Yeah, I'll be done in a minute. When he says we're going to see him and all that is important to us to keep him up in the calendar. Then we'd vote for the third point. Eta bigarrena flower power flower power
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u81	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u82	I don't know power At the same time, we also want to say that people should not be deceived. This is the right to have jurisdiction over the part affecting Basques, Basques and Basques, and a shared public protection system. That is where we meet and defend it as reflected in our Statute. Mr Damborenea said that he knows no one who is against the public pension system or the social security system. I do know people, but if you don't know him, the point right now is that there are two models that are struggling. There is an ideological debate between two types of model. A model based on public delivery systems, such as the one we currently have –better, but like the one we currently have – and, compared to another model, completely opposite, based on a mixed system, which keeps pensions and other public coverage at insufficient levels so that they have to be completed with private plans in order to be able to have decent coverage. Moreover, this model that is in front of the public system is an insolidary system, it is an unfair system and, above all, it is a system that leaves people who have less money out of protection, who have fewer resources. Mr Urruzuno said that we cannot talk about models when we are talking about transfers – now they are duzu. Because you say it – you literally said it. But, precisely, we say the opposite, we say that we cannot discuss the transfer without talking previously about the model. Then it happens, if not, as happened with Lanbide: it is transferred without talking about the model and soon we have all the unions denouncing the model disaster, because, perhaps, instead of talking about Ferraris, we could talk about bicycles, which are more sustainable, and it gives for everyone to have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u83	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u84	No offense, Mr Urruzuno, of course there is a model problem, of course there is. The difference is that you pose conflicts in territorial, national, nationalist terms, as you want to call it, but there is a problem of models. I mean, because this Basque country was independent, it doesn't mean it was going to be more fair, no more progressive, no more like it. It's just that as much as there's a pulse – not in Spain, throughout Europe and part of the world, unfortunately – reactionary movements, increasingly, exist models. Of course there are models, left and right, and anyone who doesn't want to install there will be trying to trick people. You, who have gone from being illuminatis statutism And I don't get hurt by clothes. Mr Egibar makes an interpretation that says the Statute and what Mr Damborenea says is also true, and there are rulings from the Constitutional Court that appear in the same report, and everything plays in the making of the stew, everything plays, but it seems to me important, and that is why we have signed it, that there is an important majority of political representatives here who endorse the importance that for this Parliament and for the Basque Country this transfer has to reach this country as soon as possible, under the proper conditions. I am not going to answer Mr Damborenea, because I think it is not worth it, because I do not think he has any doubt that socialists are loyal to the law, to legality and to the Constitution, although sometimes listening to some PP representative seems to have them, but in that sense we are a little more serious than you and certainly more intelligent when it comes to putting it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u85	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u86	Mr. Urzuno said that a gap had been discovered from the hand of the RGI, but that crack seems to be a way of size and size, and we can't convert it into a lodging-house axis, because our auto-ogernomy, our autogonism, would go to hell because we didn't have the power to manage it. Seven years and then this! There's a lack of ownership. Well, what's clear is that after 39 to 40 years, the state is to be filled up. And there's a paradox in the end when the Damboren mentions it also, thank God we have a system here! One question, who is responsible, the sole political leader And he said, not because of the unitary character of the system, which also appears in the cards, but also because of the principle of solidarity. There's no problem. The point is that we understand that a non-ill system has to be transferred. We already know that there are factors that are affecting the viability of the system, but it is also true that Basques and Basques have contributed a great deal and for a long time to the system. And those Basques who have contributed are not responsible for the failed management of the various governments that have managed the economic regime of Social Security. The unemployment ratio that we have in this country, the current high percentage of contributions with maximum bases – which we have a very high percentage comparatively – the business fabric that we have, an equally differentiated economic structure make us think that, with the decisions that must be implemented, of course, we can allow the articulation of a system that is financially sustainable. And that's statute, including sentences. They're agreements. After 39 years, who is responsible for the failure to materialize the transfers of these powers? I've already cited all that they are. We're talking about five or six chips. All of them complementary, which of course to an architecture of social and institutional coverage in this country, would give it a complete body. But the possibility is denied. And after 39 years we are discussing whether the discussion and possible agreement on the transfer of the economic regime from Social Security, or all the competences related to Social Security, is introduced into the work plan and the timetable. Hori gives daukagun the debate. And I think it is important that the various groups, with the nuances, respectable all of them, sign and approve and validate a very majority position today. And I invite you to join, if you like, in what is that majority, so that the decision is for 75 parliamentarians, not 66, that we are demanding the Basque Government to introduce into the work plan and timetable the discussion of all the competences that affect social security.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u87	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Urruzuno, we're in full involution, he tells us. I do not know, you have just put a socialist government in Madrid, which is the one that governs Spain with your votes, your votes and those of all, because you will know whether it is a very involutionary government or not. "The decision of Basque citizenship." Yes, Mr Urruzuno: the Statute and the Constitution were what the Basques decided. Pay attention to them. Mr. Pastor, I don't know if you're smarter, we're clearer, we say the clearest things and I think we're well understood. And some were with the Ferrari up and down; the problem with the Ferrari is that it doesn't serve to go to the mountain, it goes on roads, highways, but to climb to the mountains it doesn't serve the Ferraris. Mr. Egibar, I'm glad you asked me that question. Who is responsible for us being deficient in the issue of pensions the Basques? Well, you see, Basque nationalism as a whole. The Basque Nationalist Party has ruled for 40 years in this autonomous community – yes, yes – and we have the same population (2,100,000 inhabitants) as 40 years ago – 40 years older, that too. And that's what makes it deficient. Of course, the Basques have contributed more than others, and that is why we have the highest pensions, of course. But that's fair, because for that they have contributed, to collect; contributions more, charges more. Which they have forgotten to put in the transaction, yes, but for the contributors, not for all citizens, because if not the system is unsustainable, eh, Mr Egibar, 40 years older. And who's the other one responsible? Look, from this bench, 200,000 Basques have been expelled in these 40 years from the Basque Country for threats. That's why we have the population we have. Who are responsible for the fact that for more than 10 years, before the economic crisis, the Basques were deficient in pension matters? Well, look at Basque nationalism as a whole. And I do not tell you not to include it in the negotiating timetable, but if we have proposed here that the Basque Government and Mr Urkullu will negotiate the transfer of social security to Madrid. We have told them, "with loyalty", as the Constitution and the Statute says, and in compliance with the laws, rules, and rulings of the Constitutional Court. Or do you have a bull to break the rulings of the Constitutional Court? Why? Why is he a Basque nationalist? For in a democratic regime, we are supposed to all comply with them. Now, if there are some who have such an exception or are irrogating such exceptionality, we must think that they are not very democratic and that their approach is not democratic at all. And when I told you that the GNP that you are going to approve is going to last longer than the Madrid government, it is going to be because you are going to see to it that it lasts longer. If I have told you before, if it has been the Basque Nationalist Party that has for many years refused to receive the competences, if we have the active employment policies because we had to change government. And when Patxi López was negotiating in Madrid with Mr Zapatero, you got involved through the Congress of Deputies. If we have remembered this many times, Mr Egibar. What did they get into? To stifle and, by the way, to harm us by more than EUR 50 million a year with that brilliant negotiation they made. Yeah, yeah, look at Lanbide's accounts to see the 50 million euros every year. What do you want me to say? Why are we the only community that hasn't grown in population, with how well you live? Now, some. What's happened to us in these 40 years? Who has ruled in these 40 years? Why do we have less occupied population than we did 10 years ago? Of course, less busy, less contributors, more and more pensioners and, above all, they now have the bad virtue of living many more years, because Osakidetza works quite well in some subjects – in others not, Mr Darpón: what doctors are, yes, but the other one, not. He asks me the question that's obvious. But if this debate we had on the first day of this legislature! What was the problem? That of the population: you have to help families, reconciliation... If we also had it in the budgets yesterday. All this is not a priority for this Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u89	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Since the discussion has ended, we shall first vote with the original text of Mr. Urruuno Golds. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the ones on the side 18; the contrary, 28; white, 0; Absence, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u90	So, not allowed original text. Next, together with Podemos, Euskal Sociists, and Eunerarian patriots, the middle-direction which has been signed by the teams. Number one, and two and three? Good. Then we vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 27; white, 0; abscessations are 0.0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u91	So accept the first stop. Next, we'll vote for two and three points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u92	So two and three points of middle-point have been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "Motion, Cristina Macazaga Sáenz, introduced together as members of the Podemos team, about the crisis in the Basque Medical Department. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Macazaga, representing the Podemos team together, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Hello again, everyone. Today we are bringing to debate the motion resulting from the question to the Lehendakari on 23 November. In it, in addition to the crisis of the doped OPEs, we put on the table another series of irregularities in different appointments carried out by the Basque Health Service-Osakidetza in recent months. "Osakidetza is much more than a public job offer, much more," said the lehendakari the past full of control, and less evil. "I feel indebted to an Osakidetza who deserves our recognition as a public and professional institution, above a public offer of employment, improving every day, no doubt, but also recognizing the quality public service it offers, and transferring trust," he continued. And yet, Mr. Darpón's bet as the head of the Department of Health has been clearly committed to privatizations. But not just that. The Department of Health maintains privatization of ambulances serving at alarming levels. All emergency ambulances are managed by private companies and their personnel, with the exception of nursing and medicine, as well. However, I do not know whether you are concerned about the conditions under which the services are carried out or the precariousness to which these workers are subjected. More. The magnetic resonances and TACs are carried out by Osatek, a private company; the OSI of Toulouse has a private hospital, the Asunción, as a reference centre; the agreement with Onkologikoa of Donosti, which is going to represent a considerable source of income to Kutxabank; computer services are managed by 95 % by private companies. In relation to human resources policies, it is clearly committed to temporary recruitment to cover positions that are structural; appointments of heads of service manipulated to favor particular interests – such as the one reported to the Prosecutor's Office by the former head of the Nephrology Service of the U.U.A. of Araba or the appointment of the Director of Emergencies, who is suspected to be a candidate with a label – or the lack of IT coverage of staff from the first day, generating an unnecessary increase in workloads. In his commitment to professional development, he not only arbitrarily paralyzed his own call for 2011, but refused to comply with the sentence that obliges him to pay it, announcing his appeal, with the conspicuous expenditure, again, of public money. In addition, the cessation of successive calls since 2011 has generated double salary scales among staff performing the same functions, depending on the level reached until 2011. The management of emergencies, plans of union in a single coordinating centre, which causes the resignation of its managers, has also been very much debated lately, without negotiation with the staff board – it has been a year demanding equality in many respects with the staff of Osakidetza. In relation to primary care, a pillar of what should be public health, it is focused on the practice of disappearance by the creation of OSI, and fagotized by hospitals. Or its zero funding: 14.5% of the health budget is allocated, when the European average is 25%. It is necessary to add the null planning of their human resources, generating insufficient coverage among medical and nursing staff. If we add to this the aging of the population, with Osakidetza's inability to generate health plans that take into account social conditions, we find ourselves with saturated consultations. These are some of the domestic problems dedocracia clientelismo Mr Darpón has never wanted to investigate anything – we have already said it in paragraph 2 of this plenary session – because he knows the model well enough. Just as responsible it would have been to have accepted that it has always been so and that it was time to put an end to it. However, he chose the strategy of "the best defense is a good attack", to which we denounced the fraud of their OPE, and to deny that this happened. In the second item on today's agenda, as I said, we have already mentioned and detailed the deplorable action that the counselor has had, deplorable and irresponsible attitude in time and form: arbitrary investigations of some categories yes and others not, on the basis of subjective criteria. Would Osakidet have opened any kind of information file if the doped OPEs didn't jump into the media? I'm in charge of psychometric reports giving him an alibi. We repeat the exams in three categories due to correction model problems, use of capital letters and justifications to the right. Has anyone believed this? No, right? But we need an excuse, in his escape ahead, and he clashed with all the appeals filed, so the following open files were solved without problems. Propose a new model of OPE that would allow you to close in false, without having investigated until the end, without having solved the leaks, without debugging any kind of responsibility and, above all, without any diagnosis that leads to what needs to be changed. That is, a new attempt to close the door and swallow the key so as not to recognize that in the OPE of Osakidetza there have always been leaks in the specialized tests. Because what the counselor has shown is that it's the round advertising For all that, we tabled this motion in which we urged the Basque Parliament to express its indignation at the inefficiency and mismanagement of the adviser in its department and, in the same way, we urged Parliament to be blamed for its irresponsible action in the crisis of the doped OPEs. Despite this, Elkarrekin We also care about the prestige of Osakidetza; we want Osakidetza to maintain this prestige that so many professionals have helped to achieve, but a prestige based on good work and good management, and not just advertising campaigns. By the way, in their recent efforts to fill Osakidetza's media with good news, I should like to thank them that our initiative to launch a physiotherapy project in primary care has been so well received. And, like everything else is said in the second point and it's time to eat, I don't entertain myself anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u95	At the front turn, I didn't know we were discussing the public work offers or something else. But I'll try to concentrate on the subject. As we have already had an argument, I shall try to persuade him, whether I can succeed in persuading any one, although it seems to be difficult to make him come to this point. Well, I'll try to put ideas and arguments on it. From the very beginning, we saw the attitude of the Medical Department, the defensive attitude. That would be the first idea. It has been defensively defensively, instead of guidance, and instead of attacking irregularities before the government. So the first idea is the defensive attitude. He's moved when he saw himself forced to move, because of the pressure of other operators. So, you understand, it sounds like what it looks like, even more because you've voted against the committee before and you've lost a chance. As I have said before, if it is usual, it has also occurred in the foregoing legislation, and it is sad that the foregoing counselors have done nothing to change the situation, knowing what was going on. And it won't be fair, Mr. Darpón, but you've got a chance and you're letting it pass. So where is the firmness of this government to resist the public offer? Where is the effort and two to prove that this government is making irregularities? Where's that? If the trial of the public offer of 2016-2010 has been of service to anything, the myth of the good EAJ manager has been to fall. It's worth it, because if this public offer has revealed anything, it has shown that EAJ's Health Department, Government, and Osar is a bad management. So the second idea would be a bad management. It is the psychometric report in Oviedo. It has been useful to this, at least, that the discovery of what is to be seen and confirmed has been a very small management. But if we read the acrobats, When we examine the files at once, it is very obvious that the tribunals have been tutacted; it is evident that the tribunals have not followed the regulation and legislation by recommendation of the Ostainers. When this government is in fact "the knight of legislation and regulations," because it is a mantra of this government, it must be observed, and the law must be fulfilled." That's the mantra of this government, but then it's the opposite. And from that I would go to the third idea, the idea of imprudence. It's been obvious in this whole affair that the carelessness of this government has been made. After everything that happened, in October, all the acrobats were still unwrapped. How is it possible that what is happening is possible, and when it has political care, it is impossible that the courts should not be able to ask for the facts, to acquire the facts, and to establish some order? No way. And also when we asked the elders of Osa, what they told us, "They haven't passed ouracts yet." It's hard to understand, really. The fourth idea would be a bad degree of membership and the Medical Department. The report was delivered before October. I mean, the biggest company in the Basque Country, the firm with the most staff, the Health Department, does the report. Usually, it's assumed that this company has to be able to make a massive, deep and good report. Not really. He's making a report, a copy of what's happened so far, making a rating of the unions, especially of the medical union, it doesn't make any sense! The report of members and the Medical Department must be different. That's where you see a bad grade. The fifth idea would be that of refallining on the same stone. That is to say, when the Department of Health, together with the Osarides, makes the same tribunals repeat their examinations. Uncomprehensible, without safety. I mean, after what happened and we plan again to repeat exams with the same tribunals? That doesn't have a head. Then in October, when the Medical Department came here, the investigation was already considered closed and said so on the committee. But later on, seeing that he did not succeed in silence and silence what was going on, and seeing the initiative of the rest of the teams, he came with a report. We think it's very nice to ask for reports, because they've really been very interesting and very useful. Then, with the public expert's report, Jiméz to Mr. Asensio. But curious, he comes with the report, but he says it's not his report and he doesn't consume it. So we have a lot of reasons to blame the health department for bad management. We think it's the minimum thing, it's an exposed thing. It was our party's intention, after the investigation that the door was closed today, with the consequences taken from it, to determine the responsibility, even though we must confess that we've had some facts from the beginning that we've had to do with it, that we've been careful to take care of the Osapart Department of Investigation. For example, the Director of Human Resources, or of the Selecting and Hornitation Service, having seen how it had been done by the Human Resources Act, had done it with candidates, or what paper the Selecting and Vannitification have done with the Tribunals, and so on. Besides the personal penal cares which may be held, it is evident that political cares are there also. For better or worse, we all care, some more, others less. And these cares go together with the charge and consume them. On the way the Health Department sacrificed the main manager of the Osalome, which we positively rented, but we do not know if what came is better, and after that step we have seen no other step. We clearly see that the change of characters does not naturally lead to a change of politics, and we clearly perceive that the present state of descent requires a severe change, considering the various parameters. So the landscape we have is not good, and there is not yet a ray of light on the other side of the tunnel. Well, our team said from the very first that he was working on three main companies. That's how we did it, better or worse, we tried. And there were three main lines: to explain what has happened; if once it has been cleared up, it would be a matter of assigning attention to it, and the third to change the politics of human resources. It's necessary for us all three, and all three of us. Therefore, in our proposition, we have also received three directions. Finally, seeing that the committee has been suspended by all the arguments just received, and by others, the difficulty we are in doing our work, but I swear we will continue to work with the matter, we have made a half-way proposal, which appears to us to be the minimum to prevent the management of the medical department. In conclusion, I want three questions for the government, the Health Department. First, does this government want to maintain impunity? Does he want to maintain the printing unit? Yes or no? Second, he wants to explain what's happened and put the consequences in force? Yes or no? And the final question is, is the government taking over the cares that are his?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Macazaga in her speech – I, the truth, expected it longer, but she is also grateful that at this time in the morning, and since we had another debate on this issue at first o'clock, many of the arguments, I understand that the proposer has considered that they could be repeated – indeed, it is true that in the last few minutes she has devoted herself rather to talking about the irregularities of the OPE, which in the first part of her speech has referred to other issues – some we can share and others we can not – of the management of the department and, in this case, of the health adviser as their maximum responsible. I was saying at the end of your first speech, Mrs Macazaga – and they will forgive me for the voice – that they also have to take responsibility for other people. This was said in response to the People's Party's request to assume specific responsibilities in the person holding the highest responsibility of the Osakidetza Directorate, that is, the Director General of Osakidetza. I want to tell you now, because I haven't had a chance to answer before, which we'll see. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We will, of course, see how the events unfold and this group, as I think it has been meridianly clear in our first intervention, does not close any doors. You, in your initiative, put down two paragraphs, on the one hand, the purification of responsibilities. But I have to tell you that there have been clear responsibilities, we do not know whether enough or not, that time will tell and, of course, this group is not closed to whether, in the future, the outcome of events, the result of whether this Government is taking advantage of the opportunity it currently has, the opportunity to make a radical change in the direction of Osakidetza's management, as well as to announce a change in the restructuring of the Human Resources Directorate, will make more decisions or introduce more initiatives in this regard. To date, therefore, Mrs Macazaga, a responsibility has been assumed, when this Government, the Councillor and the Lehendakari, as the most responsible of this Government, were not prepared until that time when the People's Party put on the table, through an initiative, the need to assume responsibilities, which were concrete in the person holding the highest responsibility of the Directorate-General of Osakidetza, had not been assumed. We must therefore make it clear that, at the initiative of the People's Party, because so far no other group represented in this House, in particular I am addressing you, the groups which are opposing this issue, had put forward a concrete initiative for the Government to assume responsibilities. It was the People's Party that in a specific text called for responsibilities and for specific responsibilities to be assumed in the person I have just pointed out. You speak to us, in the second paragraph, of reprobation, but I also thread it with what I have just said to you. We have already registered a specific request on 13 October, and I would like to say that on 15 October the Director-General of Osakidetza was already on hold because, obviously, this Government understood that the situation was becoming unsustainable, that it had a serious problem and that the corresponding responsibilities had to be assumed in the person of the Director-General of Osakidetza. And I think it had to be; I said it in my first speech. This Member has asked repeatedly, and to the Director General of Osakidetza herself – and I repeat again – who from the Osakidetza Directorate provided the list of people who prepared the exams at the VATP? And the respondent did not answer this question. Therefore, Mrs Macazaga, today, we are more or less satisfied, and by virtue of all the facts we have known, the investigations carried out and the conclusions we have also had occasion to analyse in detail, the director of Osakidetza has ceased. I mean, it's a fact we can't deny. In other words, the government has acted here. Late, bad, at the impulse of the opposition and specifically of the People's Party, it was who put on the table the concrete cessation of the director general of Osakidetza. I have to remember, as I did in my first speech, we have been very critical of the actions of those responsible for Basque health, both with the adviser and with the director. I believe that at first there was an attempt to conceal the gravity of these facts, to minimize them; an attempt was also made to make an exercise of escapism and to give a folder to this matter also by ordering other studies, which have proved to be illustrative, but obviously the Government and the Department of Health and the Osakidetza Directorate had to carry out other actions that we also demanded at the time. Indeed, it has acted late, but it has acted. And it has been done, too, to rebuff events, and it is true that this department and this Government have been overcome by the events themselves and by the development of all the events we have been experiencing. Indeed, the actions, and I have said this in my first intervention, of the heads of the department and of the Osakidetza Directorate, in relation to irregularities and evidence of leaks in relation to this OPE, have been very deficient. And in the end, in the end, something they did not want at first, and there is nothing more to remember here than the appearances and the concrete manifestations when this group spoke of the total clarification of the facts and, if so, of the purification of the corresponding responsibilities, what were the manifestations both of the advisor and of the director general of Osakidetza. And I repeat here again: the director general of Osakidetza did not even dignify herself to answer questions that, in fact, we believe, she had an answer as the top director of the public body Osakidetza. And in the end, this government and the lehendakari himself, because the lehendakari himself and the councilman himself make the decision to cease this person when the People's Party puts on the table the assumption of specific responsibilities once and for all, and was therefore compelled to assume that responsibility. Therefore, this request for accountability has materialized and we, as I said in my first speech, believe that the Government must seize this opportunity. This isn't just any chance. We have now learned that on 15 October the Director-General of Osakidetza has ceased to be appointed to the Directorate of Human Resources. Well, let's see the new team what decisions it makes, let's see how the investigations that are being conducted in the environment of the Prosecutor's Office and in the environment of the Ararteko, and, without prejudice to the fact that, obviously, it depends on how these investigations are conducted and depends on the conclusions of these investigations, we have to make more decisions. This group does not close to making any more decisions, but I think it is right now, and also in an exercise of seriousness, and because it is rigorous and consistent, once a political responsibility has been assumed, not in anyone, because the Director of Human Resources could have ceased. No, no, the Director of Human Resources did not cease, the head of Osakidetza, the Director General of Osakidetza, Mrs. Múgica, ceased. Therefore, this is the opportunity the Government has, Mr Erkoreka – there is no Mr Urkullu. Let us hope that they will take advantage of it; do not waste their time, and make the decisions they have to make so that the shadow of doubt that may have remained over the health system – a system very prestigious by the Basque citizens thanks to the work of all the professionals and the excess work that they do day by day in the public health system – does not remain the slightest shadow of doubt about the system. There's a transaction. I have been drawn to the attention that initially the EH Bildu group did not speak of blaming the councillor on his original initiative, but then, in the transaction signed with Podemos, it does speak clearly of reprobation. But we have put forward our own text, which reads as follows: we call for compliance with the agreement of 21 June, in which the Government began to recognize the facts and that there were irregularities; we call on the Government, in the face of the very poor management of Osakidetza, the Department of Health, in all matters relating to the OPE, to make a radical change in the management of this body and especially in human resources policy. Mr. Counsellor, I say to you that we will be very attentive to the decisions that must be taken in an imminent manner in relation to the Human Resources Directorate, because so far we have not seen any changes. Let us hope that the changes, in line with the commitment of this Government, will be known in the Human Resources Directorate. And we also urge the Government to cooperate with investigations into the irregularities of this OPE, to take all necessary measures to clarify the obvious signs of leaks, because there are obvious signs of leaks: here the approved ones are grouped around certain hospitals and are grouped in the environment of certain people who have made the examinations, who, moreover, have casually been members of courts, Mr. Darpón, and, above all, the rest of the court members did not know that they were members of courts. And, of course, as I said before, they pay attention to investigations, to the development of investigations, to their conclusions, without prejudice, where appropriate, to the new responsibilities that need to be cleared up. That's all, thank you. I announce that in the Bildu and Podemos transaction we will abstain, and, as insufficient and because we obviously believe that there is no requirement, in the text put forward by the PNV and the Socialist Party we will vote against.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u98	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u99	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. This motion responds to a number of initiatives by the Elkarrekin Podemos group, in which what is being put forward today was from the very beginning stirring over each debate, sometimes in a clearer way and sometimes it was being made clear. Since this matter arose, Elkarrekin Podemos has submitted two inquiries, one oral question, four questions for his written answer, six requests for information and two motions. Each of the initiatives has been dealt with in the way they required, but it is true that all of them had a common minimum: it gave whatever was agreed, what was counted, what was discussed, what was proposed, because the next step was already decided before the debates even arose. I shall therefore begin by raising those points on which we agree, which I believe are some. Firstly, what has happened around this OPE cannot happen again; secondly, we must be able to guarantee equal opportunities for those who come to an examination, far from suspicion, and with classifications that respond to the efforts of those who come to an opposition; thirdly, we must work to improve the system, there have been failures, and now we have the opportunity to work to improve this, there is a document on our tables on which to contribute and work, and fourthly, the different political groups we talk about the need to assume responsibilities and we believe that they have assumed: there we have the resignation of the highest responsible of the Osakidetza Directorate, Mrs Múgica. But in order to achieve the objectives, we understand the Socialist Group that not everything is worth it. It is not worth making generic statements that are based on interpretations, suspicions and even desires, in some cases, and that cannot be given as ad hoc cases. One cannot work in politics around the "worst better" and we should not use party interests, giving just as much as is on the way. And what's on the way? In this case opponents, professionals of Osakidetza as background. I insist, you shouldn't give us the same. We could repeat what we have already said on countless occasions, even when we have repeated at the first point in this plenary because we understand that it is not a matter of boredom either, so I will take the initiative presented and focus on it. In the justification, you, Mrs Macazaga, say in the text: "That from the department no action has been taken, nothing has been clarified, no responsibility has been cleared." Like this, just like that. I don't think you can really believe this he wrote in the justification. One thing is that you have nothing to do with it or that you think it is insufficient or that you understand it wrong, but I think there are undeniable things: the Government has appeared at the request of the opposition groups, at the request of the groups that we support the Government, even at its own request; it has met with each of the parliamentary groups in camera to try to report on this matter quickly and with information, far from the opacity of being accused of it; it has acted in different ways, requesting an expert to carry out a statistical study, presenting a document open to debate and negotiation, working to clarify the issue and facilitating, as it could not otherwise be, the documentation that was required by the different parliamentary groups; a new way of understanding the Department of Human Resources was proposed; it was assumed, as it could not be otherwise, that the Mrs Múgica's resignation, and the existence of an undesirable situation has never been denied, which deserves a solution and which, as I said this morning, Mr Darpón himself defined as having a problem in one of the appearances before the summer. We understand that the Government does not give this matter up, that it has worked to clarify what has happened, as I said, through parliamentary initiatives, attendance, internal work, meetings with all groups, with groups, and assuming the need to put forward measures to change what seems to have not worked. Three investigations were launched (the Ararteko, the Prosecutor's Office and within the Government itself), but nothing works, it seems that nothing works, and the truth is that for this trip I could almost have presented this initiative there by June, but we understand that then the candlestick would not have been at his service. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has a lot of respect for this House and in this House we adopted – as we said at the beginning of the morning – a road map that we understand that Elkarrekin Podemos also voted, and we demand that it be complied with. But what's the point of discussing and agreeing if then we don't respect our own agreements? In this matter, we are at a time when I do not know if we are listening to each other for to be able to reach agreements. I don't know if it's worth much further discussion, because I don't think anyone's going to change their mind. But out there they expect an answer, as some said this morning, that we will be able to solve this plot, take responsibility and make a decision. With all that said, you will understand that we will vote no to your motion and all I hope is that we will be able to sit down and work to improve what has failed. Osakidetza is an institution that, at least, was the best valued up to the time of the OPE; it is an example in which others look, with shortcomings –it's also true – with needs for improvement "It was just missing," but it works, it grows and resolves. Mr Darpón today is the subject of this initiative, in the end it was what you were most concerned about, but I believe that Mr Darpón, who is today the health adviser of the Basque Government, as Rafa Bengoa once was, for putting a socialist, is a conjuncture. Bengoa has left and Mr Darpón will come a moment when he will decide to have less concerns, but the public health system must continue to work, and indeed, because people in this Parliament too are conjunctures, but the institutions must prevail. This should be our goal, far from party pretensions. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u100	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u101	Well, all of you at noon again. Mrs. Ubera, how long life goes around, right? The last change you reproached me for, I don't know what, I know what we've been doing. We've received this text of yours from the beginning of the discussion. Well, maybe if I were you or had your attitude, I'd say that, and besides, I'd say I'd only be young. It was only in Spanish, but now they've given us the eucharation. But if I had your attitude, I would also reproach you. But, well, it's not the case. However, and returning to argument, many things have been affirmed here. Vox pooli has been said. Then let's do an exercise. What would you do if you were the chief physician or had any political responsibility to prevent it? Because the entire system, which comes in front of the last 40 years, is, as you say, published all this system, every nomination has been published, when the jury has completed, the jury has all been published. What have you done against it? What measures did you take? Why should we think that if you were in that responsibility, you would do anything else? We've never heard of it before, there's not even one initiative. I said, not until June, not even an initiative. Why should the people think that if you had responsibilities, they would have taken other things or other measures? You didn't do anything to stop him. And it's not the first public offer. No es la primera OPE. Mrs. Ubera, you've been in law for many years, and Mrs. Macazaga's been more than two. So there's a contradiction in that. Edonola ere, eta hasierako mozioa irakurri ondoren, reading the motion, and then also the transactional that they have agreed, seems to me a little reckless, and also seems to me a little dangerous, to be continually questioning the system that we have access to professionals, doctors, specialists... in Osakidetza, because it seems that they are continually spreading suspicion, turning suspicions into tests and basing all this kind of catastrophic reality, all this deformation of the reality they make, in which it has not been possible to prove that there have been no leaks. It seems to me a little reckless, a little dangerous, because it distorts exactly the system as we know it today. The reality is that it has not been possible to prove that there have been leaks, but just as it has not been possible to prove that there have been no leaks. So, that's why I invited Mrs. Macazaga to come once and for all to this rostrum and once and for all to throw at us that light you have, that knowledge – data, concrete people... – in order to be able to advance in those investigations that, according to you, are not enough today. Let's see if we can do it, see if you would then be able to face all those people. That would be very interesting. I would greatly favour all this which you are demanding. In any case, and also in relation to the previous initiative, what cannot be done is to be both an indictment and a judge. That doesn't get in anyone's head. That's what you're trying to do. We were talking earlier about setting up a commission of inquiry to clarify what happened and to clear up responsibilities, and here we are already saying that there are political responsibilities because the advisor has not been able to prove that there have been leaks or to clarify that there have been leaks. It can't be accusing and judging, you're judging here already. Therefore, we do not share when it is said that "management has been inefficient" and that "action has been irresponsible". We are therefore not going to vote in favour of this compromise. "Entendemus que el Departamento de Salud y los responsables de Osatainis en todo momentos non actudo con responsabilidid, rigor, prudencia, responsibilities, strictness and prudence." For this is their duty, because they have very exact care in the sight of all the people. And yet, from the very beginning, a problem has been admitted to have occurred, and from the very beginning it has been done by self-criticism, and the measures have been taken from the first moment, since the first signs had appeared. It seems that it is not enough because some know that there have been leaks, but it is that against that they are different interpretations. How are we gonna convince her? With reports? With objective reports from professors, from other universities, from other places? It just seems like it's useless. In any case, this issue has served as a perfect excuse to throw so much at the Basque government – and by way against the Basque Nationalist Party. In fact, the struggle that exists between the various opposition parties for taking over the matter, for taking the flag to see who is the one who throws the most has become very clear. In any case, we are open to criticism, provided it is constructive, not to criticism of a thick, thick brooch. We have the will to improve. What has not been fulfilled by those seven points that were agreed upon in the motion? What has not been fulfilled? These are really questions that we have already asked before and that have no answer. The willingness of the Government to cooperate is evident in the investigation itself. All available information and information have been made available to all groups, to the Ararteko follow-up commission, to the Office of the Prosecutor. You have the same information that the government can have or that we can have. The improvement measures, we already have a document to work on. We have already had an appearance of a person who is expert in opposition and in public service and has made his proposal, we already have a basis on which to work. Ganbera honetan esan will say gauzak benetan ikaragarriak. If the rigour of the arguments of some things that have been said in this House is like that Osatek is a private company, it is to take it very much into account. En cualquier caso, this is where it says there's shit in Osar, a completely extended modeal operator. Esan says that they are not the three specialties, that they are all and, moreover, always, in which there has been fraud and leaks. Esan da espizialista onenak edo mediku onenak undertaking pribatura joan tell her, that "the best specialists to the private company have been cast out – it was said, literally –". What does that mean, that those who are are not the best specialists? I mean, if we understand it to the contrary, Two delegates from the same group have a different version. One says this is a whole system of chalk, a corruption Sobreaks Beraz, guk ez duguna onartuko da, EAJri edo Gobernuari egurra ematearren, edozer siteak balio duela, because it is true that investigations cast clues and measures are taken, but we have no inconvenience in recognizing it. Another thing is the intention to use this situation politically, this exaggeration. That is why we are going to support our amendment, in which we called, as we have done before, for the Basque Government and the department to reaffirm their commitment to clarify and investigate everything that is happening, in collaboration with the Prosecutor's Office, for example, with the Ararteko, for example; for the OPE to be completed, with all the measures, with all the guarantees, with full transparency, and for the new measures to be taken or worked on so that the same can not happen again in the future. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u102	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing the answers together Podemos. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u103	Mila esker, andrea president. Mrs Garrido, in September I already asked the lehendakari to cease in committee, and I do not think it is precisely a matter of making a career, Mrs Garrido, but I would like to remind you that Mrs Múgica resigned. The correction of the Official Gazette of the Basque Country has not been read. Mrs Red, tell me what responsibility the government has debugged, because it is resignation –Múgica – or it is cessation. Clarify it to me. In your reply, I want you to explain to me, too, because you've mentioned it again, the Ararteko investigation, and I want to know what Ararteko is investigating. Mr Orbegozo, today you have made it clear that all the session books have been reviewed, but you have missed writing the speech. I don't know; listen to him, actually, I don't think he's helping his counselor. And, on the other hand, that there were leaks, I do not say, put it in the information files that your Government has done, which has also not been read, lost as a session book. In short, what Elkarrekin We believe detests an institution like Osakidetza is that official positions are granted to the finger and that this is done with the approval of a Government. What discredits Osakidetza is that the professionals who form it must be subjected to these corrupt practices of staff selection. What discredits Osakidetza is that his public offer does not guarantee a basic right to access to the public service, such as equal opportunities. Osakidetza has a prestige worked out by thousands of professionals out of OPE manipulated like this, because they had no choice but to accept the model, but Osakidetza's prestige is also laundered by thousands of interim professionals who to date have waited for a turn for a finger to point out as close to entering and that in the meantime they see missed any possibility of accessing the public service by merit and capacity, Mr Orbegozo. We can entertain ourselves in the "you plus" and "you minus," but what is clear is that there were leaks from the OPE. That's what the department has done, Osakidetza. And the health counselor has not investigated, and has not investigated because he did not need to investigate, because all he was going to get out of that research he already knows, and the only thing he has wanted is to cover his shames, like that emperor, and that is why today we ask for his renewal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u105	Today it belongs to the legislature of contempt, to the institutions, to the party. And that doesn't help Osamate at all. Today, sadly, it'll be the public's fault, and it's what makes it look like in front of the people. Look, Mr. Orbez, I don't dare tell you what I'd do if I were in the government, but I'd like to think about it. How difficult you have to accept your cares. You're always trying to throw shit and ball. I don't know what difficulties you've got to take care of yourselves. I really don't understand. And I'll tell you something. Today we are not determined by political cares. Unfortunately, this legislature will not determine political cares for the moment, because the door will be closed to the investigating committee. Another question is, that we do not know whether penal cares are determined by the judicial law, or whether they are to be determined by other cares; What is done today is to blame for the management of the Medical Department and the low management department that conducts the Medical Department. Obligation. And we think it's a minimum to see what kind of management has been. Everything. If not, I invite you to read the files, to read the files, I know the difficulties with which you have read them. You know better than us what's going on and what's going on than we do, but you've preferred to cover up what's going on rather than investigate, cover it up, and, as I said before, spread the ball among the others, or open the shit. Mrs Garridio, I don't know if it's worth arguing in that "y quién más" fight, because it's ridiculous. One thing I want to remind you: You see, on November 13th, EH Collect issued a press conference with a proposal, and, besides giving it a press conference, delivered the proposal to the head of the Medical Department, because we like to do it well, and because we really think of doing it right, we didn't interfere, but before we gave you a press conference, you registered a motive. This motion was changed after our press conference, and it wasn't a mistake, it was a shift after the press conference. But, well, what do you want me to say? You can keep on listening to what's going on, but, apart from listening, it'd be okay if you made more contributions, and you'd work more hard to get a real investigation of the matter, just to establish the responsibility as needed, and to change the policy of human resources. Look, I'm not happy to see Mrs. Múgica's resignation or the cessy. Changing the person here doesn't guarantee that politics will change. It may be possible to change, but besides changing people, politics must be changed, and here Osarides, and the Department of Health requires a profound change. To guarantee this profound change so that we can no longer change the game of the immunity field. And today's opportunity has been made, and this opportunity hasn't been used, unfortunately. And all of us out there are losers. We'll continue to work to end all this and make a real solution because that's how we've been asked for members of the Oscars as well. And so...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u106	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u107	I don't know what... Well, I had a lot to say, but no doubt we'll be working on it. At least we'll keep going. We'll continue to bring up the proposals, we'll continue to wet them, because we want solution, because we want deep changes in the Osata and we're in the Medical Department. And today the minimum was to blame for the low management of the health department because it's the political manager who conducts the health department.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u109	Well, Mrs Ubera, it is not a question of hanging a medal; this group and this Member of Parliament, of course, has not intended to hang a medal. Believe me, Mrs Ubera, that when a group and a particular Member calls for an end, a specific request to assume responsibilities, has weighed many things. Look, this group is not in anyone's hands, this group has listened to many people before making any decision on this issue and, in the end, following a specific request for the assumption of responsibilities, which took concrete form in the resignation of the Director General of Osakidetza. Yes, Mrs Macazaga, I have seen the correction of errors, but it is a stoppage, then you have to see why the announcement is corrected in the Official Gazette first and it is "stopped at your own request", but surely the director or ex-director has had an interest, rather, that that was so, but, if we stick to the first bulletin, it was a stoppage in every rule. And in the end the cessation of the director general of Osakidetza, I don't know if anyone seems enough or not, it seems to us at the moment that it is an assumption of a sufficient responsibility, for the moment. That doesn't take away so that in the future – now that it is We too want these changes to be placed in the Human Resources Directorate. It is necessary to restructure this direction, where they have not been embroidered with sufficient diligence. many of the issues and problems that have arisen around this offer of public employment. But I have to say, Mrs Ubera, that I did not hear your press conference that day; moreover, when the journalists came and asked us about our initiative, I asked some of them exactly to see what you had said, and when they told me that you had asked for responsibilities. political, I asked them, "but what Has political responsibility indicated?", and they replied, "no, it has made no political responsibility in the figure of any person." And he says to me, "Yes, he has surprised us, because you in your concrete initiative ask for the assumption of political responsibilities in a specific person." Look how things are, I didn't get a chance to hear your press conference, I did get a chance to read the teletypes thoroughly and I have to tell you that you didn't ask for any specific responsibility. If we refer to the facts, you make a request from a committee of inquiry at the end of July and you activate it at this time, when We can introduce into this agenda the motion resulting from an inquiry, and the motion resulting from the inquiry of We can also come after the inquiry of the People's Party, where, seeing that the situation was being unsustainable, not coming from anyone's hand and listening to everyone..., because the object of the People's Party, of course, has been to clear up any shadow of doubt in the system, and of course, we do not want to question the system, nor to question a very specific medical category, which we believe, moreover, with its daily work, like the rest of the professionals of Osakidetza, makes us one of the most valued services. I think that some of you have also been very focused on questioning a particular medical category, and I also have to say here, with many statements from you, on many very unfair occasions, and that you also did not stick to the truth of the facts. Man, director general of Osakidetza, who was ceased And all the information and all the conclusions of the investigations being carried out and that this group, like you, has had occasion to see, pointed directly to the fact that there was a specific person, responsible for Osakidetza, who had not done things right. And that's why this group requested this person's cessation. You could have done the same as we could have done; you could also have asked for the reprobation of the adviser, who did not ask for it, you asked for it following a compromise amendment, going by the hand of Bildu; you could have activated your committee of inquiry these five months, and you did not activate it until today, until the People's Group is debated, until the People's Group, following its initiative, gets – and it is not a medal, because I can tell you that this is no dish of good taste for anyone, and less for this Member – that the director of Osakidetza should be stopped. Then comes the inquiry of Podemos, then comes the motion of Podemos and then you activate the commission. Well, Mrs. Ubera, too many coincidences. Truthfully, look at the facts yourself and make an analysis of how they have happened.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u110	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u111	Thank you, President. Very briefly. I did not intend to intervene, because I believe that everything is already said and little will be able to contribute, but since Mrs Macazaga has asked me with two specific questions, under this rostrum in a responsible way to answer you, although, in the end, I do not think that I am the person to be questioned. What kind of responsibilities? Man, Mrs. Macazaga, may the director of Osakidetza no longer be the director of Osakidetza, I understand it is the assumption of a responsibility. That's not the one you wanted, because what you wanted was for us to have taken people to the town square, because they didn't think anything was enough? It seems to me, well, respectable, like everything that is said in this rostrum, but that the director of Osakidetza, Mrs.Múgica, presents her resignation – that Mrs.Laura Garrido says that it was not resignation, that it was cessation, that appears in the Bulletin, that if not... –, the only thing we know is that today she is not the director of Osakidetza, that she was the highest responsible of the institution. Therefore, that is to assume a responsibility. Another thing is that you were looking for another. Mrs Ubera, I am not happy either, because I believe that the triumph of this would have been that we would not have to be discussing this and therefore my group is not happy that Mrs Múgica is not here, if she were to cease, resign or whatever that was. Second interpellation. Look, Mrs Macazaga, I think you should read the hemeroteca, because the first Member of Parliament who spoke about the Ararteko investigation was you, putting it in value, saying: "Look at the mess the government has that even Ararteko has taken action on the matter." That's what you said. So don't ask me what I'm talking about. The Ararteko opens an ex officio file, the first week of June – it is published in the newspapers on day 7, therefore, I understand that they would probably report on day 6 – to analyze the situation generated by the alleged irregularities in the OPEs of Osakidetza. He talks about possible leaks, because Ararteko wants to deal with the issue of the performances of Osakidetza and those of VATP. So don't ask me what I'm talking about when I'm talking about Ararteko; ask yourself what you were talking about when you valued Ararteko's investigation. If we have actually brought here a matter which seemed to me very serious, such as the approach of reprobation to a councillor, and in this debate, Mr Darpón, you have come out the best, because you have become a pin pan pom Therefore, there has been a direct assumption of responsibilities by who was the director of Osakidetza; there is a file opened by Ararteko, Mrs Macazaga, as you knew and, of course, that all the issues must be dealt with in a serious way, but when someone has been bringing in every week for six months an initiative so that the issue does not die and continue to remain in the media candlestick, at least to deal with it the way they are defined. And I think that the opposition groups today have lacked a bit of seriousness, because they have spoken of anything but Mr Darpón's reprobation, which, by the way, I personally am glad about. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u112	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u113	Well, I'll be brief. After hearing Mrs Garrido, Mrs Ubera and Mrs Macazaga speak, it is clear that it was not a competition between the opposition groups, is it not? It's very clear. In any case, forgive me, Mrs Macazaga, for preparing the issues for me, for reading the sitting paper, what has been said, how many speeches have been made, what has been defended in each of them, forgive me, but at least I usually like to prepare the issues before I come to discuss them. Eta Ubera andreak ere bai esan two bezala, ez dakit, ez dut gogoratzen aktak eta espedienteak irakurri ditudan, agian billura-egunkaria Bakarrik irakurri dut. In any case, what we think most important and important, and what we ought to take, is, from now on, to end with as soon as possible and as firm as possible, and even to take measures for the future. And as Miss Rojo has remarked, it was at last in the brain of this motion, or in its essence, a test of it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u114	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We'll vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 36; white, 0; Absence, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u115	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 54; white, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u116	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters of 36; the opponents of the war, 38; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u117	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal of the Parlamentary People of Euscal, as did by the Popular Groups, concerning the increase of information on the institutions of the European Union, in order that the election may be determined for ever." Mr. Barrio, representative of the Basque Popular Group. It's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u118	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari, counselor. Well, I'll give you a joy because there's an agreement at this point.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u119	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u120	The five groups have signed a compromise amendment and, in addition, in the explanation, the truth, I will be brief. It is precisely the five people who are going to intervene – I suppose – and who signed this compromise amendment we had the opportunity, together with the Chair of the Committee on European Affairs, to be recently in Brussels on a parliamentary journey and to be reunited with different institutions of the European Union. Of course, following contact with communication officials and members of the Eurochamber, we found, once again, something we already knew or understood: a major deficit in the information that the public and private media give about the current activity of the different institutions of the European Union. In addition, and in the face of significant elections to the European Parliament in May 2019, and given the new features of the way the Union works – things have changed a lot from 2014 to 2019: the characteristics of the electoral campaign, the role of candidates and candidatures, issues that have to do with budgetary approval – we believe that it is necessary to increase the information that, as a result of the activities of the political institutions, must reach the citizen. Well, these were the fundamental issues that we could verify. We've been with communication officials. European policy also – we have to say, we all know this – influences and increasingly determines the future of public action and the policies of Member States and regions and communities such as ours and, therefore, of citizens. The next European elections in 2019 will be important, but also the day-to-day European Union is increasingly decisive. I want to say that we have reached an agreement on what I have commented on and have made a number of instances to the media, which are together with the other actors in the European Union, institutional or social actors, an important reference to conveying precisely the importance of all these issues to the citizen. We have reached a compromise amendment, which I read: "The Basque Parliament urges the public body Radio Televisión Vasca-EITB and its Editorial Board to strengthen information programming in relation to the current situation of the institutions of the European Union, including within the information and current programmes regularly the activities and work of the various European institutions and, where appropriate, to extend programming in the run-up to the European elections in May 2019". Something that, of course, is necessary and we understand that it is well oriented to our public media EITB. We also said that "to work in this direction, the Basque Parliament also acquires the commitment to explore or strengthen ways to bring these institutions closer and disseminate information about them". Of course, we must be committed, we who are public and political responsible, and in those keys this Parliament. Also as a third point, "The Basque Parliament urges the Directorate of Information Services of other public media – also of RTVE – and the EFE agency in the Basque Country to reinforce information concerning the activities of the institutions of the European Union", with special emphasis in the European elections of May 2019, which, I say again, have different characteristics from the 2014 elections. I mean, they're going to be more decisive, they're going to be political elections, but they're going to have a much more important social component, which will have a lot of leadership in this election campaign. Finally, we also said that "the Basque Parliament calls on the management of all the private and Community media operating in the Basque Country to strengthen information on the activities of the institutions of the European Union and especially in the European elections". Well, these are the issues we understood were important. We could check it there, in situ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u121	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Groups that filed the corrections. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. As Mr. Barrio described, we have an agreement. We could probably discuss this initiation by means of an institutional expression, or other than that, but, after all, we have an arrangement, which is the most important thing. I think it has already been explained whence the enterprise comes: We are very well known at the Foreign Relations Committee, or many people talk about our travels, and I believe that this enterprise is also born of them. In this case, the Popular Party has presented itself, but there was a previous consent and a middle course of this agreement. We wanted to discuss the European Union at the present day, but it is not the subject; Its initiation is about its information. That's why I won't be long. He said the agreement was almost on the original initiative. I think it is important in view of the forthcoming European elections that information, that the Basque public media, in this case we had a special impact on EITB, but we also call on RTVE, the EFE agency and the private media, and also on Community media, which we also have to rely on, which is a communicative reality that exists, to inform and talk about the reality of the European Union. I think it is important that we report on the plurality of opinions, the plurality of actors that exist and coexist in the European Union, especially in the face of a debate and debates that we are going to have in the coming months in the European Union, and that it is done with rigour. Because I belong to a coalition of three political parties that are deeply European but deeply also Eurocritical and critical with the model of construction that we have in the European Union. We believe that the different visions of the European Union must be well informed, because often, in this nebula which is the European institutions, certain right-wing extremists – Nazis, fascists or ultra-conservatives – are intended or tended to be confused with proposals from the left that are critical of the European construction model, but which, from a deep internationalist sense, are committed to the greater integration of the peoples of Europe in order to build a social Europe, not necessarily this European Union, but to a European social integration that takes into account the needs of the people and peoples who make up it. The agreement is implicit in the transaction we have signed. We will continue to work in this direction, and above all we will continue – which is important – to bring the debate in the European Union, which we are part of that European Union, closer to the position in this case of my deeply critical group, but also to the proposal for a new social Europe that we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u123	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. EHGG rep. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u124	Thank you, and good noon to everyone. We must speak of the European Union, we do not doubt about it in our group, and I believe we have made it clear that we all have an intentional attitude. Besides, we have to talk about it, because its fineties, and the decisions which are made in it, have an extraordinary influence on us, in the model of arranging our country, and in the fines we would have to carry forward. But often, too often, he has said that often the bad news will cease to-day, and that I did not willingly do so, but, well, I am in a state of sadness, I am saying too much of the European Union or the institutions of the European Union are too far away from us. Well, when we have come again to the European Union, we have seen others talk of the pretty things around the refugees, and what influence this institution has in it, and how far away we see those which are taken. And therefore many different reasons may cause the want of information of this or that of not being informed, in the company of euscali. Because the institution itself has its limits, and we spoke of it in a monographicographic, which we brought here, because we think we ought to talk about Europe, but the media must work very hard on it, and we must work with them. And that's a proposition we made to this other law, in a way. We believe that activities can also be organized from the legislature, that discussions, which will assist us in this direction, and that we correct ourselves to add, which has been accepted. and if we wish to raise men to the next elections of the European Union, we must set up a discussion of it beforehand, and afterwards prevent it. I generate art.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u126	President, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative has the interest of bringing the reality of the European Union closer to the whole of citizenship, a citizenship that sometimes sees Europe as something close, as a reality with an important expectation, and sometimes sees it as a problem, as something far away and as a space in some way incompetent to solve some of the major problems that Europe and the world have. This was part of a reflection by a group of parliamentarians recently in Brussels, with the institutions and with those responsible for communication, who warned that Europe, being a space composed of many countries and without a single government for all of them, often generated results, political results, legislative results, which were very badly treated in each of the countries according to how each of those countries, beyond affecting them, was considered to be reflected in that negotiation. Obviously, the issues dealt with in the European Union sometimes satisfy some countries more than others, concessions must almost always be made on the part of all countries, and that is why there is often a policy of some silence in each of the countries, because it is not intended to reflect before the public some of the more complicated or delicate aspects of those policies that are adopted in the European Union. Obviously, at the moment, beyond the problems facing the European Union, which are very important – in terms of security, equality, humanitarian aid, and so many aspects of sectoral policies – at the moment, European citizens, between 40% and 60% of the way we live, are regulated by the European Union, a regulation which is then adapted in the countries, but which is already determined by the agreements adopted in the European Union. There is a great deal of ignorance about this and the only way we can enhance citizen participation in the aspects that are common to us in the European Union is to bring what is at stake in it, which is resolved in it and to make it appreciated by all European citizens. In the coming months, not only are there European elections, which in recent calls have had quite limited participation, but they are also very far-reaching European elections, where it is felt that there may be a difficulty in forming majorities after those elections, where it is felt that there will be significant growth of the extreme right, and also of the Eurosceptics, where there is also a certain crisis in the European Union itself over the situation in the United Kingdom. I believe that all this deserves an important effort, especially from those whom we consider to be Europeanists and who believe that it remains the decisive and fundamental space for progress and progress in a globalised world. Because we need, at least, that space, that size, that muscle of what the European Union means in order to compete and to continue to open the way to public, economic, social policies, etc. Therefore, we have that electoral challenge, we need in an important way that all those who are in favour of progress and we are in favour of the European Union can encourage all citizens to participate in those elections. We also need to position the citizens of Europe as a whole on something that is already under discussion and that will reflect in the coming years, which are the next budgets of the European Union, budgets that are crucial for industrial development, for technological development, for research, for agricultural policy, in short, for policy infinity. Therefore, we have too many challenges ahead of the coming months. Of course, the most inescapable and important of them is to win the battle against the Eurosceptics and to win the battle against those who want to decompose the European Union, which at this point are a few countries and a few political parties within those countries. That is why the initiative presented by Mr Barrio, which is being chained up with another one to be held shortly in this Parliament, where in an open act the Committee on Foreign Affairs, together with the Government of Parliament, will call on the media as a whole to try to make the information policy better than it has been so far. Those responsible for communication in Europe warned us that, except for one country throughout Europe and with some exceptions, most countries have mistreatment and most media are mistreatment of what comes out of these institutions. Therefore, it is necessary to correct this, it is necessary to raise awareness among those who have the capacity to transfer to public opinion what is being resolved in the European Union, and that is why this call and this call for, to the extent that all the public media in the Basque Country, public in the whole of Spain, or private, are echoed by this request, and, from now on, we can count on an information policy, with a communication that brings citizens closer to their institutions, makes their institutions more transparent and strengthens the spirit of that European Union in progress, in which we believe and defend socialists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u127	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Aguire is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u128	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, everyone, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all the afternoon. I will not enlarge much on this subject, because it is agreed on one side, and on the other hand that most speakers have already mentioned it. It is true that we had been in Brussels two months ago, and that we had a meeting with Jaume Duch, the European law director, and also with the manager of the European European Committee's communications, and that both of us had explained their concern with the xenophephobic, self-rescism, and it is true that we share the same anxiety. So when we came back, we made a number of decisions, and it's today's proposal, to ask the Basque Radio Television to open more information, because we need more information to go against a cheap populism and make more interest in our society. And it is true also that the FORMS, about a week ago, had signed an agreement with the European parliament, and therefore what we required is already signed and confirmed in our original correction. Because the agreement signed by the European Parliament with the FORTA, where Euskal Irrati-Telebista is represented, is, on the one hand, to strengthen cooperation between the two sides, between the autonomous radio and television bodies in the FORTA and the European Parliament, to strengthen information, to strengthen the formation and dissemination of European information, not only that of the Parliament, but also that of the European Union in general, but especially that of Parliament and of the elections next May. It is also true that, on the one hand, Euskal Telebista – in our case – is going to commit to issuing free advertising, free institutional information coming from the European Parliament and, on the other hand, the European Parliament will bear the costs of what is the production, the doubling of ads, in this case in Basque, but also in Catalan, Galician and Spanish. I must only say that I am glad of the agreement, that we all agreed with the initiation from the beginning, and that I simply wish to thank the teams.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u129	Thank you, Mr Aguire. The answer shift? From there, Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u130	Yes, thank you. No, very briefly from the seat to thank again the speakers who have intervened in this matter. Mr Prieto has already announced future roles of this Parliament in relation to the issue of Europe and the media. Let's hope it's fruitful, sure it is, that a lot of people are involved. And already taking advantage of the European spirit, of course, to show solidarity with the victims of yesterday's attack in one of our capitals, in Strasbourg, the seat of the European Parliament, where there were many victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u131	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Anybody else want to take the word? [[Words]] Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Basque popular, the Basque Socialists, together the Podemos, the EH and the Eubertians, the middle-class correction that the teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; supporters of 71; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-12.u132	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three and sixteen in the afternoon.
