ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll begin the whole meeting, and begin with the institutional expression against Maria José and Florentina's murder, and then we'll have a minute's silence. "Maria José and Florentina's violent assassinations have been the victims of another incident against women. The parliament presents its support and sympathy to the relatives of the victims and to the former. "The Basque Parliament condemns the killings, as well as any manifestations of violence against women or sexual discrimination. We understand that gender-based violence is the most serious expression of inequalities between women and men, resulting from women's power relations and submission. "The law of Europe demands the peoples to commit personal and collective engagements to the equality of women and men. In the same way, the organization is a responsibility to wrest it from the institutions, demands that we have our integrated plans, provided that we have the means to make the violence of women disappear once and for all. So that there will be no other act of violence against women than that of the murder of Martha Joseph and Florent's life." [[Silent]] First point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by the Congressmen of the Mireguin Ruiz de Gauna EH, with the licenses of the university, degree, and -assembled by young men with the official title of the Master. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. problemon, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u1	Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning. In fact, on Friday, when two women were murdered, and we too, as we mentioned here in the statement, ought to put ourselves in the center of our political books to face the machista of violence, and I am glad to hear it on the first occasion. We bring here a proposal which we believe must also be placed in the middle of the schedule, and it is the position of wages and young men. And the beginning of this enterprise is known, that at the end of March, the rector of the Basque Country University, the Balluerk, made it very clear that the state of many young men with high-mindedness had been scandalised by the scandal of collecting their pay from 1,000 euros. We're talking about clever young people and well-adapted jobs. How can this be possible? What are the data? The last report published by the profession, as appears in the August of 2016, has, as appears, been raised by all the fanciers of the precounciation, and the number of unlimited contracts has been continually reduced from 2009 to here. 60% of the men in 2009 had unlimited contract and 41% of 2016, 19 points down, and in 2009 the 47% of women was unlimited and 2016. Only 31%. It's also the wrong tendency to partial performances. During a partial job, there were 14% of the first women, 6% of the men, 29% of the days of women and 15 percent of men. And there's been a lot of incidents in the sodals, too. In 2009, if the average was 1,580 euros, 2016 was 1.468 euros. What happened? On the one hand, the following time from 2008 has been one of the most disturbing of all, especially in the work of the active population in general, and in the work of persons who have a university title. The economic retreats that lived, and the expense and public investments, have considerably diminished the opposition in the branches which require social titles, such as education or health. And today we all know that the decision of the government has been taken to a very serious situation in Osace, where the doctors lack it. And what happened in private sector? There has also been a remarkable change of economic structure, the regulations which regulate the relations of labour, which affect the conditions of labour, and which render it more and more hurtful to the workers. That sort of crap-form has happened. As for training, the rule which we are acquainted with has been fulfilled: The degree of activity with a greater degree of study is greater, and consequently less a danger of unemployment. What has been said has been accomplished in years of the worst. However, the young men were in great difficulty to work, and they entered the midst of a great pre-eminency of labor. This, too, has strengthened the license of the university, and a tendency to prolong the training by increasing the formation. I mean, we've got plenty of kids. So, what's the current situation? They have been in great danger of unemployment, however great the quantitary Level of the young members of Erria is. Those who have the qualities of quantization amongst the young who work, fill up with more serious positions than the rest of the young, but the union between study and employment is not complete. And what about the private sector? We have, for example, the recent statements by the President of CEBEK, who is very critical of the massive calls by OPE because, according to him, it discourages the entrepreneurial spirit of young people. He also questioned the pressure exerted by the average salary level of civil servants on private wages, and complained that the false idea, according to him, that working and wage conditions were precarious or bad had been dropped. And he said, textually: "We must intelligently manage the economic recognition that young people's new recruitments deserve." Well, I don't know very well what it is to manage with intelligence, because it can be doing among all how to pay less to these young people, or it can be how to recognize and value the knowledge they have. I'd like it to be the second. But what I do know is that, while he is concerned about OPEs, he is not at all concerned about the widening wage gap. Because the top-paid executives of the IBEX 35 companies, among which there are a few Basques, won an average of 5.03 million euros last year, those executives, that is, 97.7 times more what the employees of that company paid on average. And I think we're starting to settle the matter. Even last week a new private public agreement was made in this area. In the last four years, M. M. M. M. M. M. M. And in it, they also introduced the First Option Program into the Young Employment, where they've finished their studies and have been hired to practise non-worker youths for 30 years. And as it is found on grounds, the Precinct is admitted to the minimum conditions offered for contracts. Contracts, in addition to all labor, are also sponsored by the RedMunch, 60% over, but partial. Solitan, license, engineering, architecture, master They admit that the raw salary of those who are engaged in the DVVIBlonia is more than 1,285 a month; and the university diplomat, technical engineering, technical architecture, or the degree of college, is a hard salary of $18 a month. It's a raw salary, a clean salary can't even be millionaires. The conditions of the Lehen Aukera programme for a person with a university degree are economically lower than the minimum wage, i.e. the minimum wage received without any necessary training in many countries. In other words, a Basque graduate in an adjusted job, i.e. working on what has been trained, can charge 34.8% less than the less qualified job in England, Scotland or Wales with the Lehen Aukera program. This graduate will also receive 38% less than the lowest salary in Germany and France. This graduate will receive 44 %, 45.4% and 48 % less, respectively, than the worker who pays the least in Belgium, the Netherlands and Ireland. And compared to Luxembourg, 84.2% less. And I've only compared it to countries in the European Union, because if I used Switzerland, I don't even say. The dramatic thing is that this government does not know if it is concerned, because its adviser, of course, said in the question – and I quote also textually from the agenda – "When you quoted to me the salaries that young people in other European countries, they had the economic amounts of 1,400 or more, ours is 1,285 for senior graduates. "Taking into account the average wages that these countries also have with regard to what we have, frankly, in Euskadi, I think they are quite proportional to what these European countries that you set as an example do with regard to what we do." A graduate's salary against the minimum wage, and it seems to you... I don't know... I'm proportional, of course, I just didn't see it. In addition, this minimum wage, which the Basque Government considers to be good, is 32% lower than the average of actual recruitment for new graduates at the University. Why? Why has the Government established this value? And this is where we wanted to go. Because the data of all graduates who have gone in search of work according to other countries is worrying and responds to the same analysis of the situation. We have, on the one hand, agents like the University, socially involved in generating a knowledge society in a socially responsible economy, which denounces the situation of graduates and graduates, and is also concerned about economics. Let's say entrepreneurs are more sensitive to their interests, and that is why the report they present is also of the needs of Basque companies, of employment and qualifications. But the question is not what they do. The question, since we are in Parliament, is where the political forces are and where the executive is located. Looking for a balance between the needs of society and companies or looking at one side? Why is this government's minimum wage for graduates much lower than the minimum wage in many European countries? Why is it also much lower than the real average of hiring companies? Is that the assessment made by this government? Is that your plan to avoid brain drain? I wonder if these would not be some of the reflections that should be made by this government given the little success of the Lehen Aukera initiative. And hence also the need for it to be incorporated into the agreement. The truth is that I often wonder about the aspirations of this government for this country and in the results account we have an R & D that does not draw, far from the 3% that should be reached, a lack of industrial policy and, of course, with what we now have on the table, a message to young people that ends up with the news that we read that there are no students in full employment training. What are the priorities as a country? Because, of course, if you study the rate of income growth in households between generations, which is a usual standard of comparison in daily living standards, the data we have is that the generation of millennials And while progress was the norm throughout the twentieth century, in the twenty-first century and, of course, in the Basque Autonomous Community, it is not taking place. The data indicate, in fact, that the millennials And it is, of course, partly due to the fact that the labour market response to the crisis has particularly affected young people, in the form of precariousness. Not only the lack of job offers, but the characteristics of these offers, when they occur: lower wages than the rest of the workers, part-time work, increasing chance. The beginning of this situation is also not alone with the crisis, it was also given before, because at a time when the economy was doing very well, encouraging scholarships or mileurists, of course, contributed to making this problem structural and at a time when it was the right one for change to give validity to what works in Europe and to how university graduates are valued, that did not happen. The process of systematic attack on and discrediting trade unions by institutional and employer spokesmen is also one of the characteristics that underpin these policies that are, of course, against generations and the well-being of society. And when from Euskal Herria Bildu we give this data, we know, we know that the government party will compare us to those of the queue, it will tell us that we are doing better than elsewhere, saying that, moreover, this has been inevitable by the crisis. Well, it's not like that, it's not like that. In the Nordic economies, there continued to be improvements in the incomes of the youngest, even during the worst of the economic crisis, and this is for a reason, and it is that political measures have been taken to make this happen, because it is in our hands to make political decisions to make this happen. A short time ago the President of Jakiund was interviewed, and was a headline: "This country has no natural resource, but intellectual resources." And I believe that the greatest possession of this society is his people. And in this country the share of national income work is decreasing. The result is that an increasing fraction of income is going to capital; living conditions, comparing between generations, are worsening; tax agreements are to lower them to entrepreneurs, not, of course, people; and labour reforms favor precariousness; and employment agreements, for what are they? To establish more unfavourable conditions than those already on the market? Many young people leave for work reasons, in addition, to other countries or to other communities. We have a paradoxical situation, because we have one of the most appropriate GDP; we have, of course, a wealth ratio sufficient for society; we have the highest level of training in Europe by regions in the 30-34 stages; we have a 54.2 level, the highest in all regions of Europe; we have, however, an industry with a technological level that is not so high, we also have the so-called "green sprouts", economic recovery, with precarious job offers. In addition, a very important wage gap between sectors was raised, by the end of 2017, to 43 %, the difference between the wages given in the industry and those given in the service sector, and many, of course, the situation of these young people entitled to less than EUR 1,000, seems scandalous to us. There are economies, such as the Nordic one, that show us that this is avoidable. Does this Government have an approach for this generation that goes beyond precariousness and labour exile? And we can achieve a great social and political consensus that will allow us to move forward on the path of a knowledge-based economy, based on the principles of a sustainable, environmental and social economy. We may not leave a generation behind, and that is the proposal that Euskal Herria Bildu brings you here today, an invitation to move from regressive policies to progressive policies. And we ask the rest of us, the rest of the political teams, and, of course, it's fun: What the Government will do or what it will do, to turn it around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u2	Thank you, Miss Trouble. Before you continue, I just want to tell you, today is blood. Whatever he wants and encourages will go away, and the vote will be at the end after three things are over. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u3	Yes, all good days, thank you, Your Honor, President, members of the legislature. In the gathering of the whole of today, we are discussing another proposal about the state of youth as a preparation. The collective that has been most violent by the crisis is certainly the youngest. As the years went by, the young have had more and more serious problems, and we all know what has caused this situation, the preparation of this system. When the government speaks of the oasis of Euscala, we young men do not know what it is talking about. These young people have been living in the desert for many years. It is a serious situation, with great difficulties to survive life, and with the impossibility of being worthy of life. Dignity, for many young men, is but a kind of mirage for most young men, a fancy, an illusion. It is a day-to-day reality of our youth. It is not an election in most cases, but an obligation. Because yes, many times, on Sundays in some newspaper, in many television shows, we see cases of success of young people around the world, with projects of developed life, but that is not the norm. There is no decent life with wages of misery, neither here, nor in Madrid, nor in Berlin. If, for some time, the studies ensured some stability, although we are not going to be fooled at this point, precariousness is something that has always existed and that is part of this system, at the moment the youth unemployment in Euskadi is around 30%, and apart from youth unemployment, I would speak here about the conditions, working conditions and living conditions of our youth because, moreover, to continue with those policies of the government parties' transaction does not cease to be patching up and to maintain that situation in the long term of precariousness. And finally, if the youth unemployment situation is not bloody, we have the agreement that the government signed last week with Confebask, and those statements from that survey that Confebask made among its affiliates – or as they call each other – in which they said that 60% of the reasons why they did not find workers were due to training conditions, but 40% were due to the attitude, willingness and interest of the workers. This seems to me to be a joke, with the conditions they are offering right now in our country. And that the government welcomes such situations seems to me, at least, embarrassing, because they ask us, they ask for a career, and they ask for a master's degree, and then others, and also doctoral processes, and not with Madrid conditions, and not with conditions that the Ministry of Education places, but that we have at this moment at the University of the Basque Country, at our University, PhD students charging 900 euros net. That is the situation of Euskadi, which we are not resolving. Because I am concerned about the flight of trained and trained young people, but I am concerned about any flight from Euskadi from anyone, regardless of their formation. And that's a bloodbath we're not knowing how to stop, because Euskadi isn't offering decent life alternatives to these people. And when we offer alternatives, we offer a little program to get the most developed talent back, which is fine, it's perfect. But what about the rest? What does the rest do? What else is it, condemned to permanent precariousness, here or outside? I think that is not tolerable, because always, just like the decisions to be made here, the decision to go away would have to be voluntary. And I mean, out or here? Everyone has to have the right to develop their life project: a single life project, a shared life project, or a life project with children, a life project without daughters, whatever we want. A society worthy of being called that, and I believe that in this Parliament we all want this society to have a decent life, it cannot allow people not to develop their life projects in our country. And right now, that project of life – I say again – does not fit with these current policies, with these patches of government, because emancipation in Euskadi, the data are there, we have the average of Europe at 26 years, in Euskadi more than 30 years. We have rents with almost 900 euros on average in the big urban centers of our country. What salaries – I would encourage you to ask – what salaries are our youth paying? If PhD students already charge 900 euros, what are the rest of our young people paying? What time do we have? What times do they have? Are these hours compatible with life? What's the cost of light? What is the cost of supplies? What is the cost of transport, for example, in the urban area of Bilbao? What is the cost of enrollment at the University of the Basque Country? What is the cost of master's degrees at the University of the Basque Country, apart from the officers, who are perhaps somewhat cheaper? But those masters, and not the gifted ones, the masters that with sweat and tears of the families of the working class of Euskadi have to be paid in public and private universities. And what salaries are they offering at Lehen Aukera? That's what I think we have to think, that with that data, with these salaries, with these numbers it's impossible to develop a life project of our own at Euskal Herria. That is why we looked with interest at the initiative that Euskal Herria Bildu had taken on this point, which is in addition to others that have developed in youth policies and other initiatives, and that is why, too, we made the compromise amendment that we have tabled with the proposing group. As to the first point, we agree that the Parliament must be concerned about the work-world in 2016. The tendency is negative, the permanent contracts fall, that is clear and clear, and the numbers say so; partial labors rise, and, as I have said, wages are lower and lower, comme ejempolo tambien de los netos de loscorands. Then we propose that in six months' time we have to plan with experts and young operators to ensure the return of the young ones who have emigrations and to appreciate the number of emigrations. And the data, for example, from the Youth Council and many of its member organizations support what we are saying. Obviously, just as I have denounced the phrases, Confebask's phrase, that report mentioned in Bildu's initiative, that concern that we have to show in front of those messages that are launched in front of young people, questioning the value, the preparation, the productivity; that message from that report that, curiously, at least 40% of entrepreneurs affiliated with Confebask seem to endorse. And Lehen Aukera, it is true that Lehen Aukera has evolved, fortunately, since the initial programme, but I believe that there are many demands to be met; I believe that there are many demands made by, among others, the Euskadi Youth Council, signed, among others, by our youth organizations, by Euskal Herria Bildu, by the organizations we are part of Elkarrekin Pode and also by Socialist Youth. Recommendations indicating that Lehen Aukera has to offer a wage in accordance with the agreements and a wage in accordance with the hours worked; that he has to have stability clauses; that he has to have coordination with the company committees of the companies of destination, that he does not have it; that he has to have elements to promote, prolong the stay and also a follow-up by the government. Finally, we proposed, with regard to the role of the Basque Government and the University of the Basque Country, to ensure that teachers, administration and services staff, and all staff of the public administration, agencies under the administration or companies subcontracted by the administration have decent working conditions, which I do not think is much to ask. But, unfortunately, I believe that today's debate is going to remain in this new denunciation of precariousness, because everything points out that we are only going to receive the support, in this case, of Elkarrekin Podemos and of Euskal Herria Bildu for this compromise amendment, but obviously we were not going to enter, I am the truth that I did not rise today with the desire to whitewash the government's policy. The truth is that the compromise amendment proposed by the Government does not cease to be, in one line, "The Government will continue...", unique and exclusively. He has three points, but he only says that: "The government will continue...". And I say again, I didn't get up today, at least, for that. And at least, let this initiative serve once again to announce in the rostrum, to denounce the precariousness of thousands of people in our country, of young people and not so young as to give the best of their lives, who give the best of their lives to investigate, to learn, to teach, to put drinks, to put back in supermarkets or to take care of our people. Because all these people have the right to a dignified life, and that dignified life here and now, and with these policies, it does not fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u4	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Group Representative Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u5	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Good morning, all of you. The first thing I would like to say is that our group has found the introduction of this motion very pertinent, because, of course, we believe that it is a problem recognized by all, recognized by all. But let's make some history. It's not a problem today. In 2006 and 2007, in the years leading up to the crisis, Euskadi already had the highest number of graduates – then they were graduates – in all of Spain and we had the problem that these graduates were leaving the Basque Autonomous Community. And that was a problem that the People's Group led him to denounce years and years, the fact that our youth was leaving. We did small surveys among acquaintances, etc., etc. and we always saw that in all families because one son had gone to Valencia, another to Barcelona, another to Madrid. This is a structural problem that we have been dragging for a long time. It's not a problem right now. We are also told about the crisis. Let us be honest; the crisis has had to be solved in the most painful way that can be solved, which is to increase productivity. And when you don't have control over your currency, how do you increase productivity? Productivity is increased with more work for less wages, horrible, ugly thing to say, which none of us would want to say. We are being told about Nordic countries. See, the Nordic countries did not reach the levels of crisis that this country reached, which we were about to declare bankrupt. And this has been a traumatic, painful process in which I believe we are all committed to getting out of it. The rector told us, as has already been mentioned here, that talent must be taken care of. Of course I do. We fully agree that university salaries, university salaries, 27% were less than 1,000 euros, right; and 16% were between 1,000 and 1,200 euros, right. And that has been the way out of our crisis, increasing productivity, and that is working more for less money, of the most terrible things that can happen to a society, especially for a reason, because what moves a society is hope, thinking tomorrow will be better than today. And for a long time, two, three years, what we used to call the long winter of our discontent, there was almost no hope; there was almost a widespread conviction that tomorrow I will be worse than today. And that's the situation. Our group, first of all, as we have been saying, has denounced this exodus of young people with high education to other parts of Spain and to other parts of Europe, and also to the world, for a long time before the crisis. It has increased in the crisis. The crisis has led to increased productivity, which is a very painful process. But let's see. Well, and our group has also supported the fight against this situation and so, I would like to recall, only in this year's budget, in the youth return programme, which was set at €1,500,000, we put an amendment, which was approved, for another 300,000. The problem is that we better not ask how many have returned, because I think that you can count, of course, the fingers of both hands I have left, of one not, but we have tried. And for youth employment, in support of entrepreneurship, which was 500,000 euros, we added 100,000 more, with which we have 600,000. No one will be able to blame the Group of the European People's Party which has not supported and which has not put its shoulder on it and which has not worked to overcome this situation. But there is one thing that has to make us reflect. This motion is based on data from 2016. Look, the situation is so changing, the data for 2016 is obsolete. The change that has taken place from 2016 to 2017 has been significant. We live at a time of such rapid changes, that if you ask me some 2016 data, I no longer quarantine them, but I know that the current ones are going to be different. And we were preparing this intervention and I had the data, for example, from the last quarter of the EPA and I was saying, "No, the data are different, things are improving, jobs are being created, that job is being created." Well, you know what? I was coming here, to Parliament, I heard the EPA data for the first quarter of 2018 and they are not satisfactory data. That is, the fragility of situations now makes 2016 data obsolete, but it is that EPA data from the last quarter of 2017 have become obsolete. And in the EPA of the first quarter of 2018 there is a very worrying fact, employment has increased especially in the private sector and unemployment in the public sector has been reduced, but it has grown in the private sector. Very, very worrying data. These things I am exposing here, our group exposes them so that you see that the fragility of the situations and the changing and how quickly they change make it very hasty to take fixed, determined measures that serve for today, but that in six months may not serve and therefore we want to turn ourselves into youth employment, which comes from periods, which comes from stages of education, but which is not the university. Let us see, we are currently having a very high success in vocational training and above all in its dual aspect. And that's something that has to make us feel sharp, because not only do we have very high employment rates, there are not only times when the job supply is not covered, more people are needed and those jobs are not filled, because there are not enough staff to fill them, if not wages, wages are often higher than those who get university degrees. I mean, if we're going to face the problem of youth employment and the relationship it has with the training processes, we can't just look at or deal with the problem of university graduates, which is important, no doubt, and in which we will have to work. And I say again, we, year after year, our amendments go in this direction, if we do not have to have a more general overview, and know that youth employment, in processes related to vocational training, is going well, and is going well also in economic terms. He told us one of the associations that are several companies already in which students leaving FP have higher salaries than those in the same companies. So, our position is above all not to look at the fragile data and contingents that change from day to day and open the whole spectrum to the entire youth employment coming from training processes, which are many more than those coming from university processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u7	Good morning, everyone. I do not know what other parliamentarians stand for. I do, I rise to try to always improve the conditions of those citizens whom we represent in this House. It should also be applied in order to be able to reach agreements which some comrades on their own bench do, and it is contacting all political formations to try to reach a transactional. It is very difficult to reach a compromise if you do not take the trouble of knowing what the opinion or the possibility of agreement is between the different political formations, and only go to the sister formation, in which it is simple, because they stick to it the final piece, which has nothing to do with the access to employment of the university students, and we stick to the situation of the postdoctoral, and the predoctoral and such, by collecting something that came out in the press, and so it is easy. Then do not throw your hands at the head if the rest of the political formations do not support it. We begin today's debate with the motion tabled by EH Bildu, which titles it as relating to the salaries that should be received by the young people who have an official degree, degree and university master's degree. And the motion has its origin in the interpellation that bore the full past of control, in which, as it has done today, we have had an important profusion of data. I, of course, am not going to enter them, because we have had an opportunity to read the logbook and also to listen to the speeches before ours. But it is true that of these different studies, there are also other conclusions. Because there are positive signs of improvement in the youth labour market. Although it is true, and you are right, that the unemployment levels of this group are still at high levels and that long-term youth unemployment, which is also one of the characteristics of youth unemployment, remains one of the most important concerns, not only in Euskadi, not only in Spain, but also at European level. And those studies, to which you have also referred, also say other conclusions, and I will highlight two. One, he says, is that the two factors, the two most influential factors in increasing the chances of youth unemployment, are lack of qualifications, inadequate qualifications and lack of work experience. These are two of the root problems for the causes of youth unemployment. And another conclusion that is also drawn from these studies is that the effects of long-term premature unemployment, the premature experience of long-term unemployment, can be permanent throughout the person's lifetime in terms of the prospects of the income he/she can obtain. Therefore, we believe that it is through the complete and adequate qualification and work experience, the offer of work experience, as there are actually opportunities to improve the employability of our young people. That is why it is a priority for us within the action plans that the Basque Government must guide for the emancipation and autonomy of our young people. And we'll have to act in several directions. Here you have the framework plan for employment, economic recovery, and the IV Gazte Plana, which has a list of actions in different fields and departments. But I am going to stick in particular to two, which I think are the ones that are being brought up today, even though then at point three we will talk about what is precarious work, which not only affects this group, but it is a problem that has been created with the crisis and the legislative reforms that have been carried out on the labour market. But focusing on what I was telling them, one of the directions in which we have to work has to do with the difficulties, as I say, faced by the young people, and I'm sure that some of us also remember how we pass that trance, when the educational phase is over and we have to jump into the world of work, when you pass from that world that you control and know exactly how much, what your daily obligation is and how you then get into the labor market, how you get in there. And the evidence confirms that this transition is very complicated, mainly due to the lack of experience or the need for further skills development, which is what companies demand or demand, which are the ones that offer jobs. And in this context, it is where we believe that programmes for greater speed and speed in transit should be framed or should be framed, and it is true, I do not share with Mrs Bengoechea, not only that at university level; we have vocational training. And we have different data between what is being inserted in the university sphere and in the field of vocational training. But this initiative to talk about this issue is forgotten. The other direction in which I think the programmes have to set out is to facilitate the first work experience, or what is also the impulse of hiring young people in jobs that are related to that training they have received, that is, to give them the opportunity to improve their employability because their theoretical knowledge has it, is a high theoretical knowledge, but they lack that practical knowledge that is necessary to complete and improve their employability. And this is where the Lehen Aukera programme is framed, that program that you question, that what you do is support, let us not forget, the hiring of young graduates, graduates with vocational training or only with a certificate of professionalism – that is, they are all – who are unemployed. I mean, it's for those people who don't have work experience, who haven't been able to access the labour market. And it has to be in jobs that are necessarily related to your qualification, not any kind of job. In other words, contracts for young people with a bachelor's degree, with diplomas, with training courses, with certificates of professionalism, without employment and with difficulty in entering the labour market. That's what the Lehen Aukera program responds to. And this call for aid, it is true, establishes minimum, minimum conditions, which are not maximum – that is to say, it must also be made clear – in wages that go full-time from 11,200 euros a year to 18,000 euros and, if I am not mistaken, that amount, that fork from 11,200 to 18,000 goes according to the training that the person who is hired has and, if I am not bad in mathematics, that means that the minimum monthly salary of a graduate in this program is 1,500 euros a month, because it is paid in 14 months, which means that when you give me the gross monthly wage, you will have to give it to me in the 12 months, or specify that a worker pays double in July and December, therefore, 1.500 euros gross per month at a salary of 18,000 euros per year. It is a program that, if you look at it, in terms of the economic amounts it allocates, which primarily encourages indefinite contracting, because it has an indefinite contract in practice and contract, and the amount almost doubles it if the contract that is formalized is an indefinite contract. And within the temporary hiring in practices it subsidizes, it also does so at the shorter duration of this type of contract, because the subsidy received in the first six months is almost identical to that received if it is for a year. The orientation of the programme under this point is therefore correct. That is, first, greater incentive for indefinite recruitment; second, greater recruitment if it is in practices of shorter duration than if it is of maximum duration, by the type of contract. Should their amounts be changed? That's kind of your question. Only for graduates? Because they only mention you graduates. It is a possibility, I do not deny it, it may be a necessity and it may or may not result, following the follow-up that we Socialists consider necessary, which must be carried out by the Basque Government, this programme and all the programmes that have to do with encouraging the entry into the labour market of young people and young women and achieving their emancipation and autonomous life. Therefore, what we proposed in our amendment – and which did not have an interest in knowing what the content was – is that in the development of the specific programmes that we have for the promotion of youth employment and which are contained in programmes that have to do with its development between 2017 and 2020 – we are not talking about previous data, 2017-2020 – with projection in the future, including the one you mention, Lehen Aukera, there is a follow-up of the resulting impact so that, on the basis of these results, knowing the results of the implementation of the programme, we can incorporate any improvements that may be necessary. But this is usually the case, a program is implemented, life time is given, and then, depending on the outcome, whether improvements are needed or not, they are carried out. And, logically, we want the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Youth to be aware of all this. To conclude my speech and in conclusion. We, and you, and I believe that the whole of Parliament, know what factors affect the employment of young people, and I do not think we question that. Plans and programmes. The Basque Government has put them in place, because they are concerned and occupied by them, to remove obstacles to access to the labour market for young people and to promote their autonomy. They are underway, period 2017-2020. We believe that its development should be allowed, we believe that its results should be known and if this knowledge detects the needs, implement them. But that's the procedure, that's the way. That is why we cannot support the motion you are proposing to us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Congressmaster, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, all good days. The motive which we have to discuss today is the purpose of talking about the salaries which young college folks ought to receive. Such enterprises are important to the young, and that's why we have to be responsible for this discussion. Young people have probably been one of the groups most affected by the recent economic crisis. Fortunately, the economy is now experiencing a positive trend and we are in a position to improve the working conditions of people in general and also of the youth and youth groups. The objective must be to promote quality in employment by reducing, on the one hand, temporality and, on the other, improving wages, and I think that in that we all agree, not so much in the diagnosis made in the original motion and, on the other hand, that, by reviewing some data, we also see that 4 out of 10 young people under the age of 25 obtain employment once they have completed their formative stage, or also that the trend of reducing unemployment rates is positive in Euskadi, since from 2014 to 2017 it has been decreasing, from 30% that was in 2014 to about 15% in data from the end of 2017. We also have other studies that talk about young people's expectations, such as Aurrera Begira. There, on the one hand, young people who are employed are analysed, as well as young people who are unemployed, and we see, on the one hand, that those who are employed, the conception or perception they have of the risk of loss or precariousness of their work has fallen from one year to another by 10 points, or that the expectation of getting a job among young people who are unemployed has also improved. That this data could be better? I believe that we all agree, but in this, and we must acknowledge, the Government is working every day with commitment and with responsibility, commitment and responsibility that moves to our youth, to a youth that is formed, prepared, has initiative and is socially committed. A youth, moreover, that on many occasions must start in employment, get that first work experience that is so important, and that is where programs like Lehen Aukera acquire a vital importance. It is not simply a first job experience, but it also allows you to have a decent salary, good working conditions and, above all and more importantly, it allows you to gain experience, which is your goal, and start a life project among which we are young. Lehen Aukera is just one example, a good example of the type of programmes and initiatives that are intended, through which they aim to achieve the objectives I have mentioned above. It is not a scholarship programme, and that must be made clear, but a resource whose aim is to improve the employability of young people. It must also offer them that first opportunity to work by effectively recruiting them and to gain access to the world of work itself, which is sometimes so difficult. The principal features of this sense would be, above all, four of them, to be mentioned. On the one hand, contracts made in the factory at Eukadin are financed. On the other hand, at least six months' contracts. The amount of salary is minimum and you can go up on it, and we have to take care of that, too. And lastly, that they foresee whole employments and partial ones, but in the latter they are never inferior to 70, in respect to the hours. As we see, this is therefore a complete programme which, in addition, aims to facilitate this first job opportunity which is so important for young people to enter the labour market and start our professional career, and once it starts and succeeds in taking steps, so do the wages we receive. At the same time, it is very important that institutions, corporations, and societies should work together, so that our young people may work as best they can. In order to do this we must get a high-quality employment, and take parallel measures, such as the availability or consistency of the house. To this end, others have been mentioned, and we have two principal ways: On the one hand, 201720 of the Plant Extras, and IV. Young plan. As far as the Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020 is concerned, it is important to stress that within its third area, and it is the one that we have also moved in the amendment to the totality signed with the Basque Socialist Group, in the one on the promotion of employment. of youth employment, there are, inter alia, different lines of action and a total of nine, each with its own objectives, and indicators. These include a number of lines that I believe cover all the framework that can concern young people and go from the educational-laboral transition through specific programmes, analysis and monitoring, support, the Lehen Aukera programme itself as such, youth entrepreneurship, extending the values of entrepreneurship to the educational field, both vocational and university education, local and regional employment plans, relay and renewal programmes, both in the private enterprise and in the Basque public sector, support for youth return, young talent, etc. But, as I have already discussed, there are two keys, including the keys we have to improve our young men's employment and condition. IV. He'd be a young man's plan. We see, therefore, that this government's commitment to employability is cross-cutting and we move it in the amendment to the whole of the agreement with the Basque Socialist Group, an amendment which seeks to develop axis three of the Employment Plan and axis one of the Youth Plan, which wants them to be developed and which wants the Social Policy Committee to be informed of them. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Passing on the answers round, Mrs. problemon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u11	Yes, thank you. You have just said that you see the commitment of this Government. Yeah, we all see it. The problem is, the commitment to what. That's what we brought here. What is this government committing itself to? Mrs Alexia Castelo, we agree with the diagnosis all, it is impossible not to agree on the diagnosis and, in fact, when you pointed out what are the problems of long-term unemployment or the reasons, that appears on the exhibition part precisely, we pick it up in what we have recorded before the petitum The situation is bad, the employment or unemployment situation of young people is very bad, they have been particularly affected by the crisis. Indeed, this is so, so the question is what we are going to do. What we are going to do is the real question, because you, Mrs Castelo, said that "there are positive data on youth employment". What are positive data? Because we are not going to deny it, and I think we have also said it, not only in the exhibition part, but in the speech itself, that there is an improvement in the levels of recruitment. We've all said that too, what a doubt it is, the data is there. But what are positive data? What's behind that data? What are the salary, part-time or full-time work data? Or contract types? What are the data? When we read, for example, that 70,000 recruitments have been made in March, but only 71 new jobs have been created, what does "positive data" mean? Do you consider positive precisely what the data also tells us, which is that the generation of millennial And, above all, they're talking about what the market is up to, and that's the question. Are we just gonna let the market act? Or is it going to be politics? Because you still belong to the Socialist Party and I know the Socialist Party, at least, would be one of those who would be in favour of intervening. So, I can fully understand that the People's Party or the Basque Nationalist Party believe that the market is running, I have no problem, are liberal. The point is that from the left he does not want to intervene. I said I can understand it if those guys said it. But do you want to point out that the government really does not have to intervene? The other way around? If I am also asking you and the PNV to intervene. I trust you can believe that, too. I trust you. But what is the answer they're giving us? First, you have to let the program work. The program has been running for a long time and I say to you, as it appears here, because in the official table that appears on Lehen Aukera: "Minimum annual gross remuneration, including extra payments". I am what I have taken, the given, and the division is between 14, that is, it puts it as it is, as it is. And what is given this minimum data? What is the minimum, which is obviously the minimum? It is that, as Mrs Bengoechea also argued, who was talking about FP, because as it is also clear in this speech, we are making a reference to the salaries of university graduates, because this comes from an inquiry, from comments from the University. But, of course, we are the first interested parties to have the same conditions. And in fact, in fact, also in the compromise amendment when we say that the Lehen Aukera programme, Mrs Castelo, is reviewed, we do not say that it is done for university students. You can read the amendment, which, of course, I have been concerned to take to you before the sitting began so that you could see it, which has been brought to you. Of course, it clearly says that what we are asking is for the minimum wage to be raised for the whole programme, for the whole programme. Because you are saying that for middle-level training courses a minimum gross remuneration of 800 euros, 800 euros. 800 euros is what you're proposing? I mean, that's what we're asking, that the minimum, the minimum is that it even gets closer to the average market conditions. It is that the market is having much more positive conditions than what this government – and this is indeed political – sets as minimum conditions. And what he asks you to do is to get closer, to get the least you are asking, precisely, to the real average of the market. And that precisely serves to launch a very clear political message that we are in favour of making policies for young people, to throw the market up, we are worried about the generation, we are worried about the lack of income and we want to pull up. Or we don't worry, or we don't worry. We are concerned and that means taking action. Do you want to take action? Let's take them. Right here you have the possibility of reaching a very broad agreement, among many forces, to send a clear message to this society: "We are concerned about the situation, it is our responsibility to act and we will act to raise the salaries of young people". And the other option, of course, is to let it go, "let it go, let it go." You yourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u12	Thank you, Miss Trouble. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr MartínnezIón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u13	Señora Bengochea. I would like, it is not the day, but well, we will have an opportunity shortly to discuss why we do not have control of the currency and why we cannot supposedly do other policies, which can be done, but the design of that architecture that prevents us from doing all these kinds of policies has been done by you, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party in Europe, not us. So, look at your house a little, why don't we have those tools. And Mrs Bengoechea and Mr Alvarez have mentioned several times the promotion of entrepreneurship, as a mantra, once again. What is a solution for a percentage, for certain jobs, cannot be structural for youth policies. Because, besides, what is being entrepreneurial? Are the independents of Deliveroo, Glovo, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs? I ask you that question, to see if they feel the same way about them, who are increasingly going through the cities of our country with total conditions of slavery. And the same goes for Mrs. Bengoechea. All the proposals they make are very good, but the Spanish Government is responsible. 2016 data: 60,000 people in the first quarter alone, young people from the state who went out looking for life, also thousands of Basques and Basques. I think we need to see the globality of everything we have on the table. And Mrs Castelo, because, of course, I did not get up to launder this plan, to launder this amendment, and that is why we have made compromise amendments and if I wanted to have sex with us, I say the same thing, I have called it; the initiative is by Euskal Herria Bildu. We worked with them yesterday, with sister formation, as you call it. We again appeal to you that if you agree with the points of the amendment of the two groups on the left of this House, if you want to join those two groups on the left, you still have time. But I would ask your voters if they do not agree that the Basque Parliament should show concern for data of youth insecurity; or that we should make a shared planning with the youth agents of the return policy, which is not consensual with all youth agents. Or if you do not agree that young workers do not have that lack of involvement that 40% of Basque entrepreneurs supposedly say and endorse their government with that agreement with Confebask. Or with improving the conditions of Lehen Aukera, with improving the conditions of those 900 euros net that the doctoral students of our country charge. Or with decent salaries in the administration. Only and exclusively a statement, that is what we have put in the compromise amendment between Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu, unique and exclusively. What you are asking us to do is to sign point one, point two, point three, which is that the Government will continue to do what it continues to do, with the results we are supposed to have, because we do not have the recent reports on the table either, and that we continue to do the same. That is, that we continue to endorse salaries in many precarious cases and that, obviously, there will probably be some entrepreneur who pays more than what is set out in Lehen Aukera's minimum, but we are whitening the minimum, we are whitening that minimum of precariousness, not just work, but of vital precariousness. And it serves me for both government parties. And Mr Alvarez, it is true that the economy is improving, but what does not improve is the distribution of the wealth that we generate and that the workers generate, that is what is not improving in this country. Because the data is on the table, it's thousands, and thousands, and thousands, and thousands of contracts that are made. How many jobs are actually created in this country? What conditions of employment do these wages have? Surely you, to your gang, in Ezkerralde, you can ask what wages, what conditions, what vital expectations they have, what mortgages they have, what rents they are paying in the same Sestao. Because, as the Workers' Commissions said, Lehen Aukera in many cases is not a first work experience, but it is a first precarious experience with public money and it is a first experience that does not allow a dignified life in many cases, and they are cases with names, citizens, young Basques and Basques, because I say again, you have also mentioned it, that is to say, being an entrepreneur. We need decent wages, decent wages, stable work and, above all, that from public policy what is being done is to ensure stable conditions, to require companies that receive subsidies to use them and to comply with what they have to comply with and that, in addition, they are jobs that are stabilized over time. Because maybe for a while there's even this grant, and then what? For then that same company, as Lehen Aukera comes, which points to the continuity, for example, of a previous scholarship in that company, has entered the Lehen Aukera program. In other words, companies that receive grants from the Government in the form of scholarships, in the form of the Lehen Aukera programme, to pay less to their workers as well. And this is something that the unions are also criticizing, which is what they are demanding. They are also follow-up plans and ask to participate in the works councils also in the follow-up of the programmes, both of scholarships, and of Lehen Aukera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u15	Thank you, President. Well, I want to announce, first of all, that we are going to withdraw our amendment and we are going to vote in favour of the amendment by the groups supporting the Government. But I mean, we couldn't sign it. We couldn't subscribe to it because it's hard enough for us to do it. And it's hard enough for us to do that, why? Because what we fundamentally find in all the problems we are analysing and about which we are debating here is a great lack of self-criticism. That is why we welcomed the motion, and we welcomed it because this is a real problem. It's a real problem. If we were talking about productivity growth before, working more by earning less, something so hard, at the time when the economy is improving, it is time for that process to be reversed. And that process is not being reversed, and we do not see that the Government is truly supporting the reversal of that process. So, let's vote in favour, but I'll tell you what. We couldn't sign it. We could not subscribe to it, because it seems to us that it suffers from a lack of very great self-criticism. Then, on the other hand, a moment has come already, since Göbbels said that a lie repeated a hundred times became truth, for it is a tranquillity that is used in politics. And I say this to the representative of the Socialist Party, who always talks about precariousness, precariousness, precariousness. Look, do you know that there is currently less precarious employment than between 2006 and 2008? There is less precarious employment, at the moment precarious employment is 26%. Sad, far away, far away from the precarious figures in the rest of Europe. With one exception, that companies with a very high service component assume a great seasonality, and there are times when we confuse seasonality with precariousness. But even taking seasonally precarious, at present the job insecurity is 26.2%, and is lower than that between the golden years of 2002 and 2008. So I wanted to make that clarification, because, of course, this is the Malay drop. There is no intervention that does not say that precariousness and precariousness, and by labor reform, etc. As a result of this labour reform, we have managed to be less precarious than in the years 2002-2008. And then the Lord of Elkarrekin We can, look, we detect all the problems. But what alternatives do you propose? In your social models, in your social models, when you have tried to combat these kinds of situations, it is that all you have achieved is to impoverish terribly the communities where you are ruling. You say that in Europe, those who do this kind of policy in Europe are parties like the PNV, the Socialist Party and the People's Party. Right. And you know what? Europe is probably the continent of the world where higher levels of well-being are achieved; with all the flaws, with all the problems we have. In any case, in order to finish quickly, I would ask the Government and the groups that support the Government, first of all, that the Youth Plan you are talking about, the IV, should have an addendum to incorporate all the conclusions of the III Youth Plan. It was indicated that things had to be corrected, and the Fourth Youth Plan had not corrected anything. And I would ask you to make an addendum, because the IV Youth Plan is the III Youth Plan, but without including the consequences and what needed to be improved in the III Youth Plan. And then with regard to the other plan, we are very interested in you promoting dual university. There's a model that's working. Let's try to get it started and see if we get similar effects to what we've got with FP. Furthermore, we withdraw our amendment and vote, although we cannot endorse it, on those groups that support the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u17	The situation is bad. Precarity, temporality, partiality, pay, average pay. It doesn't just affect youth. This is one of the consequences of the crisis situation and that painful exit to which the Reform People's Party has led us after reform, Friday after Friday. It will be possible to repeat many times that there is now less precariousness, but only some say it and that should sometimes be made to look at it. By consistency, it cannot be said that there is now less precarious employment and that what has happened is a painful devaluation of wages, because another exit bet for the crisis would have been investment in R & D+i to improve productivity and have better competitiveness, without the need for all those who have paid for it to have paid for it. Therefore, the speciality of youth unemployment has nothing to do, from our point of view, with regard to the situation in which it is then maintained, its wage conditions, because that is already within what the labour market is and we will also discuss it in point three. The Socialist Party is also concerned, occupied and also reached agreements. In this particular case, when we talked about youth unemployment, and when you were doing this intervention and criticising, it was a program that does what it does to try to make that young person who is formed have that first access to the labour market, it is not the problem of the first six months. It's not the problem of the first six months. Those first six months, that first year is for them to have that practical training they don't get at the university. That is why it is true what Mrs Bengoechea says, and it is that we must exploit that dual university system, dual training, dual vocational training, which is actually working, because the data are very different. There are positive indicators. There are. I don't say that, says the Rector of the UPV, who has served you on the basis of your justification and says: "The employment rate of UPV graduates has already been placed in a 83,20 % and all indicators indicate that it will continue to grow." And she said, you haven't heard it, but she said it, the rector said, "I trust that the concrete data in Euskadi...", who didn't know them, because what we're talking about is the general situation in Spain, the CRUE report, about 7,000 surveys carried out to university students from all over Spain. And she said: "I trust that the concrete data from Euskadi, which will be published in the coming months – because it is true, and also said Mr Iñigo Zatón, we do not have the reports, nor the results of the programmes, nor the results of the situation of the university students, because they have not yet been published and yet we do not want to wait for knowledge to take positions – are better than those that reflect the study of the CRUE". And she also said one thing and it's that just one in four – which is where she marked the strip – were placed in the section 1,200-1.500, which was the one she marked as suitable for the entrance, because it said "only one in four". So, I'll remind you and you can do whatever you want: 18,000 euros means a gross monthly salary of 1,500; 15,200 euros, 1,266; 13,000 euros, 1083 and 11,200, 933. Just as the scale that should be reviewed has to start from below, but I wish no worker had ever charged below the tables that mark this program. I wish that was always the starting point of all, not only of the young, but of all the workers, at the beginning and in the follow-up. And she also said that university students accessing public jobs are more protected from precariousness, because the working conditions of the public administration have been much more cared for. And he said that those who really have the most precarious jobs are graduates who have to go to the private sector, because in the public administration there is no such problem, wages are fixed, and where one can act is to call more or less OPE. And there is also this government in which the Socialist Party participates. And we are clear that, in addition to showing concern, that Mr. Iñigo Zatón, of Elkarrekin We can, enough, not us. Socialists often like to get involved in influence within public policies, because when it is influenced by policies, it is when solutions, possibilities and options can be given to those citizens whom you mention here, but with whom you are never able to reach an agreement that means that you have to get wet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u19	Thank you, Chief. Mrs Larion, this government's commitment to the employability of young people is cross-cutting and it also has plans, programmes and initiatives, which I have tried to report on in the previous speech. And for the period 2017-2020 even an investment of more than 100 million euros is planned to try to get them started, so that a total of 20,000 young people have a job opportunity, so that they can access an increasingly complex and competitive world, such as the world of work, which requires training – which they already have on many occasions – but also experience and it is through the different initiatives with which it is intended to be achieved. I do not think that we are favouring the precariousisation of employment on the basis of the gross remuneration that comes from Lehen Aukera's call, since, as his name indicates, and as I have tried to explain before, he claims that the young person, that the young people start and develop our professional careers and, from there, we continue to take steps in an ascending line. To this end, as I say, programmes, initiatives, etc. are being developed and the challenge is clear, which is to address, on the one hand, the precariousness and, on the other hand, the another, also improve wages and wages. In terms of numbers and data, the Basque Government's Economic Revitalization and Employment Programme in 2017 saw the promotion of employment to nearly 7,000 young people. It should also be stressed that it is clear that not only do the institutions have responsibility in this matter, but it also has to be a cross-cutting issue and we have to count on the participation of companies, institutions, of course, as well as social actors to put them into operation. Yet we do not content ourselves with all this, and, on the contrary, we must go on working especially on this subject, so that our young men may have the best means of preparation. Eta bai esango nioke Martinez jaunari... well, they didazu nire koadrilaren inguruko eztabaida hori. I do not know to what extent I would also comment that in their motion they referred to the concern shown by Parliament, to what extent that would also help the people of my group. If you want this afternoon, I'll ask you, we've got "pincho-pot", and I'll transfer it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u20	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Basque Group, Juana de Bengoechea Strascha, to go to college on the results of Spanish and literary studies. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Well, again here to talk about the motion we bring today on improving the teaching of Castellana Language and Literature in our educational system. We know that we are going to be alone, we know it, and we know that it is that loneliness, enlightenment loneliness – some will understand why I say that – but it is that loneliness in which one feels comforted, because he feels that he is really doing what he has to do and because he feels that there are a large number of citizens accompanying him. Let's see, first I'm going to go over the bad data a little bit. The truth is that our group on these issues sometimes feels like Casandra, all the time talking about bad things, talking about bad data, predicting unwanted results, and it seems that you don't get much attention. Let's see, I remember Basque students taking out college entrance exams. 15 points less than the Spanish average in Lengua y Literatura Castellana. That's right. And the percentage approved is 76.25, when the average in all of Spain is 82.20. I think that's a fact we can't deny. It's a bad thing. But more than a misdeed in itself...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u22	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u23	... above all it marks a very negative trend, because evaluation after evaluation, the results are worse. That is, they are delving into a negative trend. I would also like to remind you that we have the highest percentage of backward students, 4%, and we have the lowest group of excellent students, 4%. I would also like to recall that we are in the queue, according to the PIRLS reports of 2016, in the queue in reading comprehension. And these are the data that I call casandrics, which we repeat, and we repeat, and we repeat, and above all we note that the trend is negative, and we do not see any results. The diagnostic evaluation that we have of 2015, of the fourth of Primary and of the second of ESO, once again tells us that we have the worst results in oral and written knowledge, not only in Language and Literature Castellana, but also in Euskera, in linguistic communication in general. We don't always want to talk about bad things, so we often bring FP here as a success, a success of the Education Council. I think we should call it the Uriarte law, because it's a law that's going to pass into history as a great law. But of course, the other thing is, you have to say it, you have to say it. And then, look, we ask you to make a plan, because you're going to get us out now that you have the plan I don't know what and the plan I don't know how many. And we study those plans and what we see is that they're practically all repeated, with small changes, small additions, little things, but they fail in the fundamental, which is in results. We need, we want results; we are spending an average of €9,000 long per student in public education; we are making plans and plans, and above all they seem new, but when you read them, it is practically the same literature with small changes, and what we demand, which are results, we do not get them. And now I'm going to blaspheme a little, because someone has to. Now, what do I think or what do our group think is the reason? Let's see, we have a Basque résumé. And it is a Basque curriculum that, above all and above all, prioritises promotion, teaching, immersion in Basque. And of course, those efforts take away to open us up to other fields. And I say, why is that so? Because, of course, I still remember when I was told here, "Because if you want the Euskera to end, say it, say it." And I looked inside myself and said, "Our group doesn't want the Euskera to end." What do I think is the difference? Well, look, to equal love of the Basque woman, there are those who consider it a priority and those who consider it a more important aspect to preserve, which is our case. I'm thinking that in the end this has to be a problem of nationalism. Nationalism needs to be different. And why are we different? Because we have a different language, a language that is spoken in 18.5 of the households, and that must be enhanced in order to continue to make that difference, which can make us feel different, which can make us feel even better. And as long as we have – I told you I was going to blaspheme a little – as long as we have this idea of education, as long as we have this idea of education, we will have very poor results in other areas, in other areas. We always talk about that we want to train in skills, we want to teach to learn. Phenomenal. And then we talk about another aspect, and we want to create a critical mass. Well, look, the critical mass, the critical capacity of students is acquired with culture, with culture, and culture fundamentally is a capacity to communicate linguistically and literaryly. Not only because of the texts, because today the communication, although let's say it is literary, has other supports, there are many young people who would not have known what the Battle of the Thermopils was without seeing, without seeing the film of the 300s. But culture, fundamentally based on literature, gives values, gives points of view and builds critical capacity. That's why it's fundamental, that's why it's fundamental. Without a good communication capacity, without a good language capacity, without a good cultural baggage capacity, we cannot have young critics. We'll have young people who will believe Wikipedia from above, and I use Wikipedia a lot, but come on, you have to apply a little critical sense to everything, I say. And that's why it seems unbearable to us, as the rector seemed unbearable to her other things, to us it seems unbearable these results in Language and Literature Castellana. First, we're isolated or we're away from 500 million Spanish speakers; second, it impoverishes the critical capacity of our students; third, they leave us comparatively in a situation, frankly, that is not to lift our heads, a little embarrassing. And the problem is that this is going to get worse, to get worse, every evolution is going to get worse. And I'm already sorry, but reflecting on what the cause is, the cause is to have made the euskera, the euskera, not a fundamental aspect more to defend, but the cornerstone, the cornerstone of the whole educational system, which causes the rest to lose comparative importance. And it's not a problem whether you want the Basque or not. Because, look, as much as I want, but more than me no one. It's a problem to use euskera in a way "I'm sorry if someone feels hurt," in a nationalistic way as a tool of distinction. We're different, we could even say we're better. We are not like others, we have our right to our difference and to our differential treatment, because the eighteen coma and peak percent of families speak in Basque Most nationalist societies – and this is the case, "gutxi gorabehera", that's where we go – always tend to be defined by what is statistically smaller, that is, here our language. And we define ourselves by the one who is statistically spoken by fewer people. It's a feature that's always caught my eye. Look, gentlemen, we are the same as all of us; we have our own treasures, which must be preserved, which must be maintained. But we can't turn them into totems, or turn it all into a taboo. What we need to do is to increase communication capacity with the world, with the world, with the world, and foster literary communication "I repeat again, I am not referring only to books, because today literary communication has many supports," so that we can be able, once young people have learned to learn, to have the ability to have a critical sense of what they have learned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u25	Hello, everyone. Thank you, Your Honor, President, members of the legislature. To-day we have here a discussion of the actions of the Popula, of languages, of the treatment of the languages in the euscal politics, and of the police of language, which are closely connected. A few months ago, at the initiative of the People's Party, we were discussing the progressive involvement and generalization of trilingual education in the education system. Shortly afterwards, we discussed the education policy of the Basque Government in relation to English. At the initiative of the EH Bildu group, we have been in the Committee on Education for a few months exchanging views with associations and experts, who are showing us their views on the treatment of languages in the non-university education system. And today we discuss specifically of Castellana Language and Literature in the test of access to the university. This is not the first time we have discussed this issue in plenary or in committee, and it will certainly not be the last. From Elkarrekin Podemos, we believe that the treatment of languages in the whole of the Basque educational system is a very important issue and that we must deal with. Debate and exchange of views is never too much, but sometimes we feel that while some pull on one side of the rope through the Basque, others pull on the other side through the Spanish and English, and for us, for Elkarrekin Podemos, that we are clear that we live in a multilingual context, with a second official language, we believe that what needs to be done is to take steps. We believe that we have enough objective data already to take action. We believe that it is time to put on the table in the debate proposals and alternatives for real change and improvements. We think it's time to stop playing sokatira These propositions must necessarily proceed from the Diagnostic, which all the members of the legislature here agree. We live in a country with two official languages. We have youth and eucaia. Nevertheless, though the achievements which the euscal school has acquired in the sphere of language-normalization are indisputable, yet, as we see in the final evaluations that have been made, the degree of eucament does not always succeed in the standards we would. According to the sixth socio-linguistic survey of the Basque Government, the presence of "euskaldun berris" is enormous. In the 16-24 age group, 55.7% of Basque speakers have learned Basque outside the family environment and, on numerous occasions, live in a context of a low presence of Behave. According to projections, 90% of the population under the age of 20 will be Basque-speaking in 20 years. However, many of them will be bilingual with a predominance of Spanish, with an optimal understanding capacity of Basque, but with limited productive skills, integrated into not so Basque-speaking contexts. Therefore, if the current trend is stabilized, this sector of the population will have little opportunity to employ Basque out of school. This is one of the problems we've already noticed. Let's get to work. Let's look for solutions. Let's discuss how we can fight this challenge. Let us begin the discussion of further improvements, and put aside for once the solutions that are only farms. We have to answer the real hinges. In fact, Mrs. Bengochea, the main problem is not in Spanish and literature. It can always be improved in all the fields, and therefore the solutions must be integral and not partial. It's easy to remember: All students at the end of their necessary educational studies at the same time must have a sufficient practical knowledge of eucalyptic and youthful education, and it is as if it were a EuskoMALY that is forced to set up the measures for it. In addition, from Heziberri, a multilingual system is proposed, with Basque as the central axis, with the following levels of competence: reaching level B1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for the two official languages at the end of primary education, and reaching level B2 at the end of compulsory secondary education; and levels A2 and B1 respectively for the foreign language. As we have already said, the assessments made show that the level of euskera acquired does not always meet the desired standards, so it is time to discuss the real reasons that led us to this situation and to take action. And this leads us to a reality that we have already raised from Elkarrekin Podemos on all the occasions we have discussed on languages, and that is that research shows us that the current system of models A, B and D do not fulfil this obligation, are stagnant and obsolete. The position of Podemos has not changed in this matter. Language models are out of date, and we're telling them that, not the goals marked, nor the D model. And we believe that the problem is not only in the schools of education, but that reality or problem must come to this even from the police of language. Together we have a clear idea that there's more to be done outside the school. So, to continue the use of the eucay, we must continue to invest in formal education, education, and informal education. There's another great challenge. Now, what do we propose? In our opinion, it is necessary to move forward and move towards a unique and flexible language model, based on the diagnosis of the educational centre. We must bear in mind that the starting point and the situations are very different in each centre. We bet that it is the educational community itself that develops its linguistic project, with the support it needs from the Administration. We believe that an option could be a trilingual language model, with the euskera as a vertebrate axis, and in which the third language would be chosen by the centre itself. To that end, we should first agree on a common general framework that we all respect. And here is the other great challenge we have: to reach an agreement between all political forces on a minimum framework. Besides, it is evident that the learning of any language ought to be made based on the language of the language. I mean, it's not about learning language, it's learning it in that language. And so, we think, we must continue to take measures to make the eucos the real axis. After all, there are a lot of challenges ahead of us, and we've already discovered a lot of problems. In our opinion, working in the éuscal education system to improve Spanish and literature is not a proposition that will solve the present problem. In this regard, we have tabled an amendment to the whole, in which we urge the Department of Education to design, together with the educational community and the Department of Culture, Euskera and Sport, a strategic plan to carry out the necessary measures to overcome the current framework of linguistic models and to move towards the development of a trilingual model, based on the linguistic educational project of each centre, within common minimums and with the Basque as axis; to put in place the necessary support measures for each educational centre to design its own linguistic project, always taking into account the objectives to be achieved at the end of each mandatory stage. We believe that these two measures will also improve the results of the Castellana Language and Literature of university access tests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u27	Mrs. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Today I came with the white flag in peace, very quiet, because we thought we'd passed a few discussions, but it seems to me that we didn't. Bengoche's speech, tone, has revealed to us that there is something else under this proposition. We should therefore be grateful to explain what this other is, though it is true that in his discourse he has sufficiently explained to us what lies behind this proposition. Mrs. Bengoche has given us lessons about nationalism when her whole speech has been wet with nationalism in the Middle Ages, but she has given us lessons that we must be open to the world, about culture, that we are ignorant and that we have not enough culture. How many times have we heard of patriotism, nationalism, travelling, healing, opening into the world, healing with culture? I think that you should learn less and think more about yourself and do more self-critics, Mrs. Bengoeche. And because we prefer all this to rest, when it is only to be seen from your side, how difficult the several representatives of your party have to speak in other languages when they go to Europe. Or if we compare the data of the English EAE, who have some of our people, or who are in Spain, where EAE is found in Europe, and where Spain is found, you have a date of 2015. So, Mrs. Bengochea, what's the point of your proposal today? To improve Spanish and literature? Or is it the search for this again and again to decrease and oppress more and more? Because I agree with you, Mrs. Bengochea, when you say we need improvements in Spanish and literature, you're right. There's always room for improvement, and besides, we have to be ambitious to improve. We need to be ambitious, and we should constantly appreciate ourselves to be grafted on our personalities and our areas in order to respond as well as possible to the changes of society. Indeed, in the course of recent years, as you have said, we have seen the results in so many reports, from the results we have seen in so many evaluations, and from the changes and evolutions in society. Because the forms of communication have changed, the correct influence of globalization for the side-effects are present, and because the manner in which they are connected has changed the means and means of obtaining or not acquiring them, or at least of changing them. So it's clear that we're in a moment of change, it's clear. And we should also settle and reflect and rethink in education. You've said so often too, we've had a lot of talk about it. What I don't know is what we've done, what we've been talking about, that's where I doubt it. But we don't find ourselves alone in Spanish and literature with the need to improve. Even in other competitions and powers, there are different reports. How many times have we talked about that in the past few years? We've got old folks lately, and, in fact, we've got homework to improve our education, and I say to improve our education system, because if we improve our education system, the results will improve. But if we concentrate on the results, that's a short course, and improvements will be short in time. At least that's what we think. And we think that's what we need to take care of when we make improvements, to do some planning or other. And I'll try to lower the different factors that we have. Between different factors, use. We are not bad in the use of the Spanish itself, in the use of which there is no difficulty, the use of youth in ours prevails in the practice of youth. The other thing is that the quality of use is that we need to improve on it. And, as I have said before, I do not know the proposal of the Pontulacian Party to-day, as the proposition of the English, which it introduces in others, is exactly with what purpose it brings it, and I am grateful to be fully informed of it. Is it really to improve, or to diminish still more and more? For, Mrs. Bengochea, if you are really concerned with grafting improvements into the powers of competition, the results we have seen, the results we have acquired in all the records of evaluation, I do not yet understand why you have not yet brought the proposal to perfection in the reconciliation, since, if we need it somewhere, we have need of it in the use of the stucco and in the quality of the euca. Yeah, that's an objective data, and I haven't seen a proposition he's got in that sense yet. What else? And today I'm not going to reopen all the data, because we're talking about the data over and over again. But in order to improve, how are we to go on what is to be directed? What are the keys? We know that there are no magic recipes, but we believe that if we are to work in the process of treatment, and we consider the person as his integral, we must consider the context, the environment, its reality, the situation in which he lives. Yes, and all that must be done in a form united and integrated, in order to do as real a way as possible, out of life, in the environment, breaking the isolation of the room and the school, in order to join the immediate environment. And for that, we need solid education projects. And in these solid educational projects, we need language projects. But we need a common ground, we need a backbone, and the ends must be clear too. The goals, not only being clear, must be negligible, because otherwise we should be in danger, and always from the logic of the personality. Because it doesn't make any sense, it doesn't make any sense, with all we say, to propose plans that have no meaning at all. A plan for reading, a plan for English, a plan for Spanish... No. We're talking about competition, aren't we? We're getting involved in the environment, from experience, reality, and personizing it into its integralness. Then plans don't make any sense. We must form a form and integrate with it, we say, which will break through a circle a purely academic point of view. Otherwise, we can never encourage the use of youth, equivalence, and not English, we will never be able to do it. And, as I said, be careful! for it is necessary for all schools to have a foundation and purpose clear and negligible, negligible: the end to which, at the end of a necessary education, one ought to attain, etc., etc., etc., etc. And, of course, resources, which have recently been so rare. Like HIP's. At school, we're watching what's going on: they are very limited, and those which are not throughout the course. And so we need more resources there. And I put another factor on the table, no doubt what I have to think. The Euskara language is diminished and is at a disadvantage, and still more in this whirl of globalization. So we have to focus on our education project when defining and developing our language project. And we shall have to conform to the sociogenistic area, and therefore most of the hours must be of equivalence, without neglecting other languages, but we must consider that. Our goal, at least, is to educate the eucalyponic citizens, who, at least in the cradle and youth, at the end of their necessary education, will have B2a, and at least acquire a foreign language. The Basque axis and the euccany of the rest of the language and cult from the confession and respect of all languages and language. Society itself, not only the Basque Country, but now Castile, Burgos, all of us are eloquent, and that's not in our minds.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u28	Finish up, Mrs. Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u29	And maybe if we don't keep our language, keep it, watch it, the world will lose a language, lose a fortune, lose it in multiplicity. And be careful, no Basques, no Basque People, no Basque Country. And I think that's the right thing to do. And here no one disputes language, but please let's be frank what we're looking for when we bring in our proposals, we'd be able to make a lot of progress.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u31	Well, good morning. Today the People's Party brings us a motion, resulting from an inquiry, concerning the results of the Castellana Language and Literature in the test of access to the university. I will try to introduce a certain rationality, because sometimes in these debates, in the subject of education, it is like entering a quadrilateral where each of the contenders goes to a corner, and I think that to play on the board we should all be at the center of the board, without needing that to reinforce one's ideas and arguments, necessarily have to attack the contrary. We will go a little to the data, to the data to which Mrs Bengoechea mentioned in her inquiry, which are data referring to the results of the tests of access to the university, in the same way that this motion is raised, although it refers only to the data obtained in Castellana Language and Literature. The data can be extracted from various sources, as can the interpretation given from them, depending on the variables used or analysed. It can be the study of the Galician Council, referred to in the full monitoring, or the statistics of the Ministry of Education, which are used as sources. We wanted to base ourselves on the latter, on which the Ministry of Education has carried out, which are relative to 2017 in the test of access to the university. We analyzed the university access test that students of Baccalaureate have conducted in the ordinary call. One could analyze the extraordinary call, to which the rest of the students present themselves, or those who access this test by means of FP, but we will be guided by the most generic, students and students from Bachiller in ordinary call, because if not this could become a popurri of data and percentages that would lead to confusion. We have focused on the general phase of this test, where the common subjects that all the autonomous communities have appear, and of which all students have an obligation to be evaluated, so that the comparative can be more rigorous, since in the specific phase the student chooses subjects according to the branch by which they have studied Bachillerato. It is true that in the matter of Castellana Language and Literature we do not get the best average, precisely. The total average grade in this area is 6.45. The Basque Country stands at an average of 6.03, certainly below the overall average. The lowest average autonomous community in this area is Baleares, with a 5.64, and the Basque Country follows him on that list. This is significant, and we obviously do not have even a good result, understanding that only one autonomous community is below us, and that we are below the overall average. We are followed by communities such as Valencia, Castile and León, Andalusia. The community with the best average is Canary Islands, and followed immediately by Asturias. But we are also the autonomous community that allocates the most budget per student. And, of course, we must be on the highest margins. "This is what we think," like the last two communities quoted. It is true that the communities that have a co-official language are the ones that have the worst averages in terms of Castellana Language and Literature, below the general average, and there are also Catalonia and Galicia. But this is not the problem of the existence of co-official languages. As we have seen on many occasions, the study of languages helps to strengthen the other subjects. We are in an integral community, where we have a bilingual education system, as well as studying a third language, such as English. Analyzing only one subject of the general phase does not give us an overview of the results of students from the Basque Country in this test. The only thing that is done is to skew a reality that we understand goes far beyond. It is undeniable that we do not have a good result in the subject we are discussing and that steps must be taken to improve this result. That is why, in the amendment that we have tabled, together with the Basque Nationalist Group, we urge the Department of Education to encourage the idiomatic updating and didactic training of the languages of the teacher, of all languages, of the teacher, because we understand that this must be done. The two are languages, the two are ours, the two are our heritage and we must give them the same treatment, mainly in relation to the integrated and integral treatment of languages, promoting a plan of language training and teaching methodology. The Department is further urged to continue to implement initiatives and resources to support the educational community in improving the readership of students, as a basic communication tool and to encourage their interest in reading. Many of us have also spoken about this in the Committee on Education. But let's go further. Focusing not only on the subject of Castellana Language and Literature, we can see that in languages we have good average overall. In what is called a co-official language, the average is 6.46 and the Basque Country is an average of 7.66. In English, the overall mean of matter is 6.61 and we reach an average of 7.44. As we see, in both, the average is exceeded and not precisely by few points. In History, the average is 6.16, while our average, it's true that we're wrong there, it's a 5.53. That is why we defend and continue to defend that it is possible and compatible, and also good, a multilingual educational system in which the co-official languages, the Basque language and the Spanish language are studied, and in which the English language is increasingly progressive. We have always carried as a flag the language of English in Basque public education, since it seems to us that it is a basic competence for the future of our students. We must work on that competition, continue to improve the results in this language, especially in a globalised world, in which in some respects, such as science, the true French language is English. But what seems to me to be a mistake, Mrs Bengoechea, is that to defend the Castilian you sit on the obligation to criticize the Basque, or to criticize the use that you understand some make of the Basque, or vice versa, that is to say, to defend the Basque neither need to minimize nor undervalue the Castilian. It is just that I refuse that two languages which are my heritage, that of all Basque citizens, must be called into question and made to face them. They are part of our culture, of our culture, of our heritage, of our way of being Basque and, therefore, I think we should avoid in these debates, even if we do not want to do it intentionally, that the feeling is generated that who goes out like you to defend a specific treatment for the Castilian language critical of Basque and that Mrs Ubera is forced to go out in the gallery...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u32	Mrs. Ubera, you'll have your turn. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u33	No, don't forgive me, let me say what I want to say, then you criticize me whenever you like. ...feel threatened by what you say, because I don't think it's necessary, nor does it need to reach those extremes. I believe that improvements in language teaching units should be improvements that affect both the teaching of Basque and the teaching of Spanish and the teaching of English in an integral way. That is the spirit of what the amendment we have tabled with the Basque Nationalist Group has sought to capture. The two languages deserve respect, we both have to feel them as our own, and I believe that certain expressions do not, precisely, help to create that good climate. Then, ideologically, everyone will be placed where he or she sees fit and that is another issue that we are raising here today, or should be, at least.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u34	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Wide, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u35	Thank you, Chief, all good days. This discussion reminded me of a couple of months ago, and they also came to us from P.P.'s hand. Then PP was very preoccupied with the English capacity of the euscal students, and now we have a terrible anxiety about the degree of youth. I don't know if next time it will be euphora ability that will bring it to us. I don't think I'll ever live that moment, maybe. He's asking me to do a projectal plan to improve the Spanish and literature lessons on euskal education system. And we don't agree with the initiative, but our disagreement is profound. We do not agree with the mechanism of the initiative and philosophy itself. And why don't we agree? In fact, for two main reasons. The first reason is, that the euscal students get the results in the Spanish. Because the photograph of the result is certainly not as katrephatic as Mrs. Bengochea wanted to show. After listening to what I had heard in my mind, I began my study of data curiously. The average of the Spanish state is 6.45 and Eukadicus 6.03. It's all better, of course, but you can't say we're far from the average. The Chief Department told you last Friday, 12 out of 17 commonwealths, we've got points between 6 and 6,5, at that point at 0.5. In fact, six of these 11s have only one official language, Spanish. So, if you can think where to begin, you can start. And by the way, I'd like to remind you, last year, that the Esscal students tried a college entrance was over 95% of 9 points more than average. The rest of the autonomy company followed the Basques. But the comparison of statistics and comparisons is for us the second reason that is much more important and deeper than that. one. Do we have to improve on Castellana Language and Literature? He knows well that in our group we never object to moving forward in anything that has room for improvement, but within a much broader linguistic context that goes beyond the Castilian. That's why we don't appreciate the initiative that demands an strategic plan that has nothing to do with anything but youth. And to consider the four main axis of this discussion is essential. The first axis. We want to discuss the Euskal educational system, always on the axis of the eucalyptic system. That's what we've always said. And this has nothing to do with patriotism, but justice. As long as society has a social instability, the eussa must have a proper place at school without doubt leaving other languages aside. Spanish is also my language, it's the language of all of us, that we belong to school, and foreign languages are more and more important, at least a foreign language. It is the object of the students to acquire a more advanced degree of sound and youth, and a lower degree of foreign language. I just mentioned the second axis. integrated and integrated language treatment, and wholly linked to it, language projects. The process of instruction and instruction in each language cannot be looked and cultivated in an isolated manner. We need to work out a full angle and develop it if we succeed. From time to time we have remarked that the language projects of the schools are extremely important. The document entitled Basis for the Agreement, drawn up on the basis of the reflections of representatives of the educational community, defines it, in my view, correctly. It says: "The plurilingual school is not only the one that teaches several languages, but the one that has an integrated and integral project of all languages, and that pursues the plurilingual development of students". Every school, accompanied by the administration of education, must reflect doublely on languages, taken individually, and in general by languages. The thought demands a planning and a different time. In the first place, in a first stage, a sentence of sensibilization. Why do we need a language project? What does it suppose that free commitments and affections should be employed? Secondly, a phase for Diagnostic. To consider the exact circumlocution of towns, towns, and neighbourhoods, according to sozylinstic contexts, and so many other features. The language environment of the students, the language of the college, the grouping and sorting of and sorting information about the teaching of languages, both in lyrical and not linguistic areas. During a third stage, phase of development. Defining student language targets in different languages. Considering the starting point, what are we trying to accomplish? What are the priorities? To make a full language plan and work on an strategic plan, to build different languages, moments, and a chance to build bridges between languages. And how, indeed, is it possible for us to see whether the objects which have been established are attainable, whether they are to be reformed? There, we think, is the key and the challenge. The third axis concerns methodology and preparation. A methodary view, we believe, is indispensable to a planned and successful system. And for this purpose it is necessary that the explanation of teachers and other teachers who teach different languages should be taken in order to cultivate them indirectly. To work in this direction, we must offer an update to the professionals of education as to the teaching of languages. It's a discipline that's been studying your language more and more deeply, and we have to use the different options that this science has given us, to apply and evaluate the results in our system. In a language you have to teach everything, obey language well, and learn to teach in that language. And with this the active methodology, verbality, communication, and use must have an important place. And the fourth and the last axis, the ability to read. A few weeks ago, we were discussing this affair at the Board of Education, where the chairman of the Barrieres was. We all agreed on one thing: the ability to read is locked. It's an essential ability to develop the other qualities under the best conditions. Because of this, the Board of Education has already started a reading plan and has put several resources into the hands of schools and families. We'll see what the result of their development brings us, but at least we'll have to admit that any measure is effective or not known, it's only a period of time before it can be evaluated. These are the four axes we have mentioned which we have attempted to reflect as a summary in the correction which we have presented to the motive, and which Mr. Pastor has read. Therefore, multilingual system with euskera as axis, integral and integrated treatment of languages, linguistic projects of center, methodology and training in teaching languages, importance in reading competence. Those and not others are, in our view, the elements that should guide us in addressing debates such as the present. I really believe that we've received a kind of approval from all groups in our corrections, and that we've all submitted a direct correction that can vote for each other. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u36	Thank you, Mrs. News. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Well, let's see. I do not understand how with so many plans that we have, with so many good ideas that we have, with that document – I too have read the Basis for the Agreement – and so on, and so on, we are getting worse and worse. It's just that I'd ask for a little more critical sense. Because the truth is that we have many plans, many ideas, we know how to do it and, at the time of truth, the results are worse. There are two things that I, of course, believe to be repeated continuously and I do not believe to be true. One of them is: "Euskera is a minority language". Let's see, the Basque in society, of course, is a minority language, but in education it is not a minority language. On the contrary, the minority language in education is Spanish. Let's get the hours, let's see how much it takes. Basque is a minority language in society, but it is not a minority language in education. That's for starters. Another phase that seems to me to be incorrect: "No, no, because the Spanish is guaranteed". No, look, the Castilian is not guaranteed, it can be guaranteed as something... for that, a very basic use, very elementary, but in all its capacity is not guaranteed; neither is the euskera. We have a big problem. Mrs. Ubera told me that I was only coming to talk about the language and the Castellana literature. In this context it is true, but in the motion, the other day, in the question to the counselor, I also talked a lot about literature in Basque. Let's see, those things I don't think are true. I was wondering what our purpose was to bring this issue here. We have said this, we believe that knowledge truly in all its potentiality of languages – and in this case we are talking about the Castellana Language and Literature – is what makes it possible to create critical citizens, critical citizens. We want, on the one hand, citizens who can be able to learn and, on the other hand, we also ask that all this learning go through a critical sieve. Well, what enables us to be critical? Having the language that is – and now we are talking about Spanish – at a level of sophistication and deepening in its optimal use. Because parrots also know how to speak, but what makes us think, what makes us think, is the mastery of a language. Then there's another thing I'm going to say right now to finish. Now, Mr. Pastor, have you heard that "because you're neither cold nor hot"? It's in the scriptures. You talk about having to be located in the center, in the center. Look, I'm gonna tell you something. The center, by itself, is sterile. The center, by itself, is sterile. Sharing the quadrilateral, what makes the fertile center is to be able to put opposing ideas into play to reach, by agreement, that center; then the center is fertile, but the center is sterile. Do not ask me to be neither cold nor hot, and to come here, and to say – nor to our group – what is politically correct to stay above good and evil, because I also believe that this is a position that citizens do not reward. I want to be in the center, but I want to get to him, I don't want to pop up in the way all of a sudden. The center itself is sterile. The fertile center is the one that is reached by opposing strong ideas and debating without any prejudice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Together Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u39	From there?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u40	Yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u41	Now? Yeah. Well, very briefly. We, as we have already mentioned in my previous speech, are cooperative to sit down and work on a minimum agreement that will enable us to overcome the current framework, and we will therefore abstain from voting on the amendments tabled by the groups. Basque Nationalist Party, Socialist Party and EH Bildu. Since we do not share all of its amendments, it does seem to us to be a starting point for us to get to work and thus show our willingness to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Gather EH, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u43	I believe, or maybe I'm cheating on myself. But I think we're going on with the discussion that we're on the committee, and I think we can find a common point. It seems useful to me, and to me that the discussions we are arguing and the experts we hear, and those which can be heard more. Look, Mrs. Bengochea, I'll do some things as if I didn't hear them, okay? But thou art right, and I gave thee reason: We have to improve in Spanish and literature, and we have room to improve as we do in other companies. And I also think we should be ambitious. And I often miss this ambition, to improve ambition, because there is always that interval of improvement. And as to languages, we have plainly the more language we know and use and learn, the better. And that's what we're doing, okay? And we're convinced of that, and we're convinced, and that's why we want the best education system. But we clearly know where we live, and we're Basque, and we live in the Basque Country, yes. And we've also got a clear idea of the situation of eupcharation. The Basque language is a smaller language, it's at a disadvantage, it's about to disappear, and we've got to focus on that context when we develop our language projects and develop our education plans. Because that requires a different treatment in those projects, right? Because it's not the same as all languages. In the globalized world, in technology, we're watching what's going on with the Englishman, and we're seeing how English is getting stronger in every other language. So we're gonna have to play there other ways, okay? And we can clearly see that if we want to work on the same person in integration with our surroundings, we think it's the best way to integrate them and combine them together with our environment. Because what we see in schools, as you mentioned, is that the eucalyptus in education systems, in schools, is the boss. But what is it to be boss? Arlos, I don't care, Basque, Math. Are they just academic content? Are they going to stay inside the school? No. School, room, area, content, language, can't be mere academical content, but they're for use in our daily life. That's what they're for. So, it seems to me that the education unit is ahead of us, and that it's done a lot of work, so we have to go with another mentality, right? When we make the projects of education, or when we make the plans of language, we must be in some sort a district, rooted, absorbed in the village, considering the culture, sports, economic agents, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. And there each school must have its own projects, but we think it's necessary to make and define them that there should be a common ground and that there should be criteria. It's not all good, it's all worthless. And here also the ends must be clear, and must be measured, and must be cultivated, to obtain results, and the popular worshipers, to be the most learned, to be the most advanced society. And we doubt how things are doing, and we know from the result that we have them to improve, yes. And it seems, in theory, that we use similar terms, there may be agreements, but I think there are several things to be explained, because even in the document for a possible agreement, even in the contents, it may be said to speak of the eloquent system, but then the euphorum takes place apart from the axis. Then we don't know exactly what he's looking for, and much less what the head physician of education has given him the interpretation of that document. We have a clear idea that we seek out the language of the euscal and euchary system, don't we? But there are certain shades in it, and we'll have to go and discuss things, and see if we're all looking for consent, because we think they'll be for everyone's good.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u45	Yes, from the seat, quickly, simply to make a precision from the affection to Mrs Bengoechea. I don't think the center is sterile, nor do I consider myself playing center play, do I? But it seems to me that on a subject as sensitive, as delicate and as important as the subject of languages, it is not good to use languages as a bold weapon against one another, because that makes it impossible to reach agreements. And I believe that there is an important common basis, which is already reflected in the law and which can be improved, which will enable us to reach that meeting point. And that doesn't mean you're leaving your positions, or being fooled on the contrary. But there is a willingness, willingness and willingness to find a common territory, which we will necessarily have to do, because if we dedicate ourselves to throwing the language at our heads, we will break the toy before it serves and is useful to the citizens. Therefore, in that spirit which I understand you must preside over and which I assume encourages everyone, I encourage you to support the amendment that we have tabled with the Basque Nationalist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u46	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. And in the end, Euca patriots, Mrs. The New Testament is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u47	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Well, Mrs. Bengoechea, you're very worried, but let's put things in her own way. It is true that in the Spanish and the Renaissance literature we are a little lower than the average, with the other 12 autonomys together with the community. Yeah, that's true. And we confess. And you're so worried. We, as I said before, are ready to improve the results in the Spanish. As in all parts of improvement, we have no objection to taking measures, but I suppose you will be extremely uneasy about it. History of Spain, average note of the matter in the Spanish State, 6,16; in Euskadi the average is 6,53. Basque students know more History of Spain than in Spain. Foreign language, English; average note of the subject in the Spanish State, 6,61; in Euskadi the average is 7,44. Therefore, Basque students know much more English. Hortaz, Egyptian gogoeta ondo dago, bathe egin dezagun neurrian beer eta alde guztietan. Over the sterile center and the fertile center. I do not consider the centre sterile if what we are talking about is putting all the languages in the centre. And he says that the fertile center is when opposing ideas are put at stake to reach agreements and then I come to the conclusion that there is currently that fertile center in Euskadi. That is what dozens of people are working on, trying to reach minimum consensus on a basis for agreement on education. The process set in the educational order, you all know it well; for here the chief physician's initiative, at the committee, has been offered information from the first moment. This Monday, too, we had the opportunity to discuss it the last time. You know very well that one of the five working groups, formed to reflect, exercises the subject of languages. And the result of this reflection has made some proposals, which are already public, and which are now studying at the Basque Council. Then the State Council will accept it, and the State Council will accept it, and it will be in the hands of the parliament, so that we may have the chance of making our contributions. My question is, whether we can be able to work out those laws which the representatives of education have cultivated, to combine with our own opinions and attitudes, to try and build upon them. At least we hope so. And let me read you, Mrs. Bengoechea, a fragment. It says: "Euskera is Euskadi's own language, it is not the only language, but only we own it. The Euskera lives with the other language that is also from Euskadi, the Castilian. Languages are not exclusive, but proof of diversity, plurality and integration. We share the need to improve this coexistence, with the aim of making it more egalitarian, more inclusive and more harmonious in a horizon of greater social cohesion." That is what the Basque Government's programme says. Let us, therefore, examine the words, assertions, and make a more constructive discussions, if we really wish to construct a system of euscal education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u48	Thank you, Mrs. News. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, according to the parliamentary team, concerning the preparation of labour. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Mr. Hernandez, representing the Podemos team together, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u49	Good morning, congressmen. Over the last few years the precariousness of people's lives has been a constant increase, as you all know, and especially the precariousness of working conditions. Job insecurity figures in Euskadi rise worryingly month after month, quarter after quarter and year after year, and quality in employment is therefore already one of the main concerns of citizens, according to different surveys and opinion studies. The labour reforms, especially the last two, of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, have thus wiped out the Workers' Statute which has imposed what they call a relaxation of working conditions, which is nothing more than the abolition of labour rights. This process has been so intense that the worsening of the conditions in which hundreds of thousands of workers perform their work today brings us back to situations of past times. Today, in 2018, working conditions are worse than 30 years ago. Today there is a generation of young people who live worse living and working conditions than their parents and mothers, and in far worse cases even than their grandparents and grandmothers. Euskadi, far from being an oasis or an island in this process, is completely immersed in it. The figures leave no doubt, in our opinion. In Euskadi, in 2017, almost 35% of all working people had a temporary contract. This figure goes up and up every year. If I remember correctly, three points in 2017 compared to 2016. In Euskadi, 93 % of new contracts are temporary and half of these contracts do not last for one month. 95 % of part-time contracts are also temporary. Today, in the Basque oasis, job insecurity spreads unchecked. We believe that, in light of these figures, the Government and especially its fatigue partner, Confebask, should be far less successful in talking about unemployment figures. Talking about technical unemployment in these circumstances is an insult to the precarious situation that tens of thousands of Basques and Basques live in, especially among young people. Today in the Basque oasis, 83% of young people are in precarious employment, 83%. And this is not something we say, it is data from the reports of the Euskadi Labour Relations Council. But, above all, it is the raw reality of any young person and worker with whom we talk, but that is why we have to talk to the young people and to the workers, and it is difficult to talk if elements such as the Social Dialogue Bureau are blown up, reaching unilateral pacts with Confebask. And it is that the sore economic recovery that some in this Parliament so presumes is being made at the expense of precarious working conditions and trying to bind the social partners with their feet and hands, who are encountering serious difficulties in combating it. But this precarious work, in addition, has a clear gender bias; the precariousness deepens the inequality between men and women, makes Basque women have more difficulties in moving forward, more difficulties in being autonomous, more difficulties in exercising their rights on equal terms. To show a button: Basque women suffer 5 points more temporality than men and triple the percentage of men who work without contract. Even when the Labour Relations Council was in this Parliament, it was shown that the greatest precariousness is in women. This unacceptable drift from the deterioration of working conditions has to be tackled and combated, in our view, also because it is a reality imposed by political decisions for clear purposes: to take advantage of the economic crisis to establish a productive model and a labour market in which business profits are maintained and increased on the basis of greater exploitation of workers. Mrs Bengoechea even said that earlier in an intervention. And he said that no one likes to say that this is done, but that's the reality; that's the new model, a model that those who drive it pretend to be installed permanently and irreversibly, making life worse for most people. The succession of labour reforms undertaken, which generated three general strikes over a period of three years to the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, has therefore resulted in a work model whose main characteristic is precariousness. These labour reforms have resulted in more than 90% of the employment generated being precarious, temporary, without rights, as well as thousands of workers being pushed into the status of false self-employed, a clear example of the new forms of exploitation in which the worker is forced to be outside the devalued umbrella of the Workers' Statute or collective agreements. The reforms have made it easier for employers to maintain and increase the benefits at the expense of labour rights, economic rights and social rights and, as a result, levels of inequality are also rising. Reforms that have degraded the working and living conditions of the working class and have unbalanced the working relations in favour of the employer, a employer, by the way, who currently has several of his most illustrious representatives in prison; those who recommended us not so much work and earn less turned out to be, in addition to some exploiters, full-fledged chorizos, as shown in the courts. Among them, nothing more and nothing less than who was president of the state employer, CEOE, of which the Basque employer, Confebask, is absolutely voluntarily part, a Basque employer who is very comfortable with this situation. And in the face of this reality, in addition to signing unilateral agreements precisely with this employer and breaking the dialogue table, what does the Basque Government do? That is surely a question that tens of thousands of precarious workers in this country are asking. We believe that, of course, we must adopt clear, concrete, quantifiable and evaluable objectives in reducing this precariousness, no. We believe that this is not being done so far, because while it is true that the government is making a sign of some compromise, such as lowering the unemployment rate below 10%, it does not say anything about what objectives it wants to achieve with regard to job insecurity issues. And that is precisely the objective of our initiative today, which assumes concrete and quantifiable objectives in relation to job insecurity and working conditions, to put black on white what objectives this government is setting against job insecurity, concrete objectives. We know that this is not as easy as talking about reducing unemployment to 10%, especially because this 10% unemployment target, with the tailwinds of macroeconomic recovery and in a situation of devaluation of working conditions, is almost like saying nothing, because we think that very badly things would have to be done so that at the end of the parliamentary term the unemployment rate would remain above 10%, with this government and with anyone else. And we have said this at some point, if there are now two precarious jobs where there was a more or less decent job, the unemployment rate is reduced but at the cost of making it precarious, not necessarily because of the creation of new jobs either. That is why the government is carrying out the entire legislature by repeating that goal related to unemployment and by slipping the bundle with the goal of precariousness; it knows that one is easily achievable and that it will be able to sell it as a goal achieved without doing much, and the other requires it to take action and probably confront a employer, with a Confebask with which it is starting a pine tree. That is why we came today to tell the Government that it was up to it to do certain duties, which, in our view, have not been done for almost two years. With the agreement on today's initiative, we think that PNV and the Basque Socialist Party will not recover the suspension in job insecurity. But we believe that they can change the attitude and, above all, the attitude of the Government, and show that they have at least the will to prepare for the review, to study and to do their duties. A suspense rather than a suspense is a debt, a debt with a working class that is in increasingly unbearable conditions. Decades are turning back, as I said earlier, on their rights and living conditions, and this Government must, in our view, move from words to facts, from rhetorical objectives to concrete and evaluable objectives in relation to job insecurity. Therefore, from our group we think that when the Basque Government proposes employment policies, it cannot relegate the issues of working conditions and job insecurity to a background, as we believe it does, beyond the headings, but that quality in it must be an absolute priority. We believe that it is necessary for the Basque Government to take on clear and concrete objectives and targets in relation to job insecurity, objectives that go beyond expressing a generic need to create quality jobs or to improve the rates of temporaryity and partiality. We believe that the Government has to say on what specific point, on what level it intends to place some of the variables I have mentioned and many others I have not mentioned. That was the goal of our initiative. We believe that point two of this resolution contains certain duties for the Basque Government, because we believe that these duties are not being done. We believe that we have to have or that the Government has to have quantifiable objectives in relation to the problems of job insecurity, which are very serious at the moment in our country. And that is why we were bringing this initiative and we hope that, once approved, the Government will pay attention to it. I say this because recently in the Labour and Justice Committee a non-law proposal was adopted with the votes of the opposition groups and with the vote against the groups that support the Government. And it occurred to me that since a non-legislative proposal was adopted, the Government would have to comply and immediately some party member supporting the Government came to remind me that non-legislative proposals are not binding on the Government. I think that a government that does not comply with non-legislative proposals, beyond the legal obligation or not, is a government that also devalues the democratic element of this House. representative, but today the initiative will be supported with the signature also of the groups that support the Government, and I understand that this should be at least a guarantee for the Government collect and formulate these concrete and quantifiable objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u50	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u51	8 November 2017, Mr Hernández. Congress of Deputies. There is a motion for urgent questioning by the Socialist Group on job insecurity. The aim is to put an end to job insecurity, overtime, high rotation or unwanted part-time work. Method of doing so: strengthening collective bargaining as a source of law. Proposed instrument: normative capacity that resides in the Congress of Deputies. That is, and you do not escape, because I have been repeating it from this rostrum a certain number of times, modification of the Workers' Statute, that umbrella that you say it is up to Parliament, in this case the state, to give that umbrella to the workers, the Workers' Statute. The collective agreements, whether you like them or you don't like them, correspond to the social concertation between employers and trade unions, which are their protagonists. Six days after its presentation, it is put to debate and vote, in particular on 14 November, and the result of that vote is that that is approved with the votes in favour of the Socialist Party, of Unite Podemos and of the Basque Nationalist Party, curiously the same groups that we have agreed here today in this Parliament. For something it will be, something we will share. And at the origin of labour reform, and I have recognized it many times, that labour reform does not matter to me that you also quote me from the Socialist Party, because at the moment things have been done that should not be going on any longer. They were also different moments, and we also know perfectly well, and I have told you, who destroyed certain fundamental bases in the protection of workers' rights. Therefore, the past is the one that is and the present is the one that we have to put ourselves on, because it is good for you to tell me this about doing the outstanding duties, but to see if you are ever able to bring the concrete agenda too, because from your original amendment to the transactional amendment, where concrete measures are put in place, it is precisely the contribution that the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group have made to the transactional. And so I am beginning my speech because today I am discussing in this House with you and the other Members of Parliament the proposal that you registered on 2 February and which coincides with this objective that the Socialists have already taken to the Congress of Deputies on previous occasions, right? And because we are interested and because we are concerned and concerned about the reversal of job insecurity that has certainly occurred in recent years, even though some groups do not see the issue of precariousness. We therefore share with the proposer, it cannot be overstated, the concern about this precariousness of the labour market and we also agree with you that the successive flexibility of employment has had harmful consequences and has directly affected the quality of employment, the level of wages and the core of collective bargaining. So far we have no difficulty in understanding, we know what the situation is. The job creation that some statistics offer, except those that Mrs Bengoechea uses, which must have its origin in the People's Party, go to know you since when stored, are being done at the expense of temporality and partiality. There is no doubt about this; there are more and more temporary contracts, many of which are very short-lived, generating instability, increased job insecurity and lower productivity, and more and more such contracts are part-time, and in many cases this partiality is involuntary. According to 2017 data, in the Basque Country, to reduce the unemployment rate by 8,626 people, a total of 958,100 contracts were concluded and only 7.6% of them were indefinite; the rest was temporary, and it is true, 40% – you mentioned – were also part-time. This form of recruitment has become an element of precariousness and labour exploitation that has no match with dates, with previous situations; precariousness in which it must also be borne in mind that it mainly affects the most vulnerable groups. We were talking about young people and we were talking about women too, and we should mention it. However, so far what I can share with you, because it is not true that the Basque Government has not made concrete commitments in this regard. The agreement to build an Euskadi with more and better employment, more social balance, more coexistence and more and better self-government, which the Socialist Party signed with the Basque Nationalist Party, and which serves as the basis for the action of the coalition government, reflects a clear commitment, which is quality employment. And this is a concept that is intentionally united, linked, because the objective is not to reduce the unemployment rate, but to reduce the unemployment rate with quality employment. That is why the bet is on quality employment, not any kind of employment. And it is in responding to this objective in what affects the framework programme for employment and economic recovery 2017-2020, of which I recommend not only the reading of the executive summary, but mainly of the strategic axes, of its implementation and above all of its evaluation indicators and objectives to be achieved, because it has them, because it has them. When it also states in this document that it is a general objective of the programme to promote a labour market that offers higher quality employment, that it is reflected, of course, things have to be put into practice, they have to be put into practice. In what? In a less temporary, in a less partial, or at least in an unwanted partiality, in a deepening of progress in occupational safety and health and in socially responsible enterprises and with advanced management in human resources. But I will go beyond the discrepancy, because I believe that you, we and the Nationalist Group have been able to go beyond what unites us, and we have been able to focus on what unites us or what we share and achieve, as I was curiously saying, the same agreement between the same forces here and in the Congress of Deputies. The three groups consider it important for this Parliament today to show its commitment to the advance of the precariousness of labour relations and to show a clear and firm commitment to work in the area of its competence to reverse this process. And hence the House's commitment to use its legislative capacity, the legislative capacity that we have within the powers that assist this House, to contribute to that objective of real and effective reduction of precarious rates through the laws that we can pass throughout this legislature, and that will be several and multidisciplinary. It is a task which, from our point of view, must also continue to occupy the Basque Government, which, in its commitment to quality employment-safe employment, recognizes it as a key objective in which to move forward in this legislature. It is in this context of commitment to quality employment that we Socialists believe must be priority lines of action, among others, the promotion of collective bargaining, the fight against labour fraud, the generation of healthy and safe work environments or the commitment by socially responsible companies. To this end, strengthening the monitoring of work conditions in workplaces, monitoring recruitment, monitoring 100 % of part-time contracts, increasing the performance of labour inspection, deepening the training and qualification of prevention delegates, promoting knowledge of prevention and its beneficial effects on increasing the productivity of companies, disseminating the results of inspection campaigns, or the box set up against labour fraud are, among other things, measures which will help to ensure better employment. These are concrete actions. You go out and give me some more. In this direction will always be the commitment of the Socialist Group and the Socialist Councillors in the Government. And also the coalition government. And don't hesitate Nor will that be the commitment of the majority when we come to agreements in this House. Therefore, I welcome what unites us and let go of what separates us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u53	Thank you, ma'am. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. Our society is involved in a complex and changing economic state of society, some factors, globalizations, changes of business management patterns, new demographic changes, and new technology have produced a remarkable influence on the job, and this must be evaluated by a thorough and shared reflection of multiple disciplines. Employment policy is therefore of great importance, as it is an essential instrument for achieving sustainable economic growth and the necessary social cohesion. It is therefore necessary to formulate employment policy within the framework of a comprehensive strategy that serves as a reference for society as a whole, a comprehensive strategy that fosters the development of the productive system and enables the various social and economic actors to meet around common guidelines for political, social, labour, educational and business action. It is within this necessary strategic framework that the debate on this non-legislative proposal, brought to us today by Mr Hernández, is framed. In February of this year, you, Mr Hernández, register an initiative with the title of Work Precarity. In other words, it raises a debate on the quality of employment in our community. And the quality of employment, progress, for this Government is a priority. As every time I face a circumstance like this, a debate like this, I initially raise the analysis of your initiative, your justification, your very brief justification, four small descriptive paragraphs. One, the figures, which do not add or mention, on the other hand, and their concern, in this case shared. Secondly, regulatory changes, labour reforms. This has also been discussed by Mrs Castelo, I can agree, I agree. Thirdly, the scenario of economic recovery at the expense of precariousness, he tells us, and its uncontrolled extension in the Basque oasis, adds today in this rostrum. I do not share the image that you, the image of "without control" that you move us. The conclusion of its justification, and I quote it: "The Basque Government has made concrete commitments in reducing the unemployment rate, reducing it to at least 10%, but not the type of employment that is created". And that is why you make this proposal. Before focusing on the proposed part of your initiative, I would like to tell you that I do not share your conclusion. I don't share. Indeed, the Basque Government has made the concrete commitment that you mention, to reduce unemployment rates below 10% throughout the parliamentary term. But it has also or has committed itself to other specific objectives. Some examples, some examples of not draining the lump as you say, "These gentlemen drain the lump." No, no, Job opportunity for 20,000 young people, 5% increase in the annual budget for R & D & i, objectives on internationalisation of SMEs, smart specialization, fourth industrial revolution, digitisation of SMEs, dual training, renewal and consolidation of public employment and, of course, on the quality of employment, which is cross-cutting to all objectives. We could follow Mrs Castelo and I with lists and surely there was little room left for you to set some example. Let's go back to his initiative. There are three points on the proposal. Two of them, the first and the third, in which we look at ourselves, at Parliament. In the first, show concern and commitment to change the situation better, agree; in the third, include quality employment as an objective through our legislative capacity, agree. And a second point, which is the true core of your initiative, which you have also indicated in your speech, and on which the negotiation of the transaction we have reached has also focused. In it, the Basque Parliament calls on the Basque Government, in particular, to adopt concrete and measurable targets and quantitative targets in relation to the quality of employment. That is to say, quantify the qualitative and this, I quote, "in line with what is outlined in the challenge five of the Basque Employment Strategy 2020 and in the axis of action eight of the Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Recovery 2017-2020". My conclusions regarding your proposed part and ultimately your entire initiative: First, you consider, and it follows from your writing, that the strategy, which the horizon of objectives, which is the strategy, is an appropriate reference and poses a small correction, in coherence, you say. Marks a small detail in red, does not tell the government: "This Strategy is not supported, it makes water everywhere...", no, no. He says, correct this detail, he considers the Strategy to be an appropriate reference. Secondly, using the same argumentation, I also understand that it considers the framework programme, which is the realization of that horizon of objectives, as an appropriate reference. And thirdly, by stretching my argument and following the example he uses, I understand that he considers the specific quantitative commitments to be appropriate. So far, three good notes for the government, three out of three. They don't marry much of their initiative, in my opinion, and what brings us to this rostrum. The bad news or the bad note - and here your duties for the government - the correction you put forward. You, the government, quantify worse, in a less concrete and evaluable way in relation to the quality of employment. They quantify the qualitative worse. This fourth conclusion of my own on your initiative led me in February to re-examine the strategy, also the framework programme. I've already done it. But now he did it not from that complacency, some will say, but from his critical vision. And I was even more surprised by the positive strategy than the first time. I'm grateful to you for putting these duties on me, too. It would highlight background and overall approach, careful improvement of work, strategic coherence and also in-depth analysis. Tables, 72 graphs and tables that illustrate and clarify and give multiple versions or visions on each point of analysis, the correct diagnostic summary and, of course, drawing from this diagnosis, the challenges to be addressed, which are actually being addressed to improve employment in Euskadi: activation, qualification and competence, generation of opportunities, equal opportunities, effective and efficient employment system and, of course, the quality employment challenge. With its guidelines for action, Mrs Castelo has been reminded, consultation and agreement as guiding principles of labour relations; intensifying the fight against labour fraud; advanced management of people; social and corporate responsibility as a contribution of the entities themselves, of the companies themselves, active and voluntary contribution beyond the fulfilment of legal obligations; occupational safety and health; creating and ensuring healthy work environments, etc. And in this personal study, I was able to verify the depth of the concrete and evaluable objectives and targets in relation to the quality of employment. Only the action and impact indicators of the E axis on page 135 should not be used. You don't have to go there alone. You have to look at all the indicators, you have to read the whole strategy and the whole framework programme, said Mrs Castelo, not just the executive summary, you have to see everything. Because it is a conceptual error to quantify the qualitative as if it were quantitative. It's of a different nature. The strategy is much deeper than that. But still, I'm glad I signed this agreement, that it doesn't have to stop. But as a concrete example of what I am telling you, pick up an issue that we bring to the agreement, which we pick up in the agreement. "Quantitative objectives in relation to – we say, we developed – progress in occupational safety and health." Look at what the Strategy says about this issue. You'd say, "It doesn't appear in the indicators," and the Strategy says, "Euskadi, Euskadi. –the first page, in 121–Euskadi already has the Basque strategy of safety and health at work 2015-2020, a strategy that has concrete objectives to achieve through the development of actions organized around axes of action, with a structure that aims to facilitate the implementation and monitoring of the initiatives, as well as the evaluation of the results. "For this reason, this strategy guideline only aims to recall those strategic objectives of the Basque Strategy for Safety and Health at Work 2015-2020." In other words, in order to remember, if we read the Strategy, the Strategy to which we refer in our agreement refers to others. The Strategy must be read in its entirety, in its entirety and with that qualitative character. Another issue that you pointed out in the debate was a gender treatment issue. Note, on page 134: "The indicators on this page and the next one are analysed from a gender perspective". They will also be analysed from a gender perspective. So we have to understand the strategy and the framework programme. Anyway, as I was saying, I'm glad I had to look at it, study it, strategy with these new eyes, or rather with these glasses...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u54	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u55	I'm glad I signed this agreement. Recognize the work of the parliamentary groups in this regard. And thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u56	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. A group that hasn't announced any correction, representative of the Basque Potula Group, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mr Hernández, indeed, I share with you, as all those who have come to the rostrum and all those who are sitting in this House today have done, that precarious employment is worrying. The fact that there are people who want to work, that they have a job and that with the wages they receive they cannot cope with the obligations they have pending, with the maintenance of their family, with the development of a project of life is obviously a scourge for this society. In that we all agree with you, I don't think anyone wants to question it. That these people do not come out of what is called the thresholds of poverty, because it is a situation that concerns society as a whole and that is precisely why job insecurity is one of the great concerns when we are told what takes away the dream of all citizens and is placed between, if not the first place, among the top posts in these statistics. It is true that this precarious employment affects above all the most vulnerable groups of workers; it affects women's employment, it affects the employment of underage workers, and it affects women's employment. 25 years, to employment called youth, affects the employment of those over the age of 50, and if we add to each of these three groups that of people who have very low or no professional qualifications, then we already have a perfectly good picture of the workers who have precarious jobs. In all this we agree with all those who have spoken to date on this point. What I do not share is the analysis of where we are going, of how that situation is evolving. From my point of view, you may or may not agree, the greatest enemy of precarious employment is precisely job creation, in common sense. When there are many people looking for work, those who offer that job can afford to do so under terrible and even illegal conditions, because there will always be someone in need who has to take that job and sign that contract or even work without a contract, because the most precarious for a worker is not having a job, not having it in good condition, but not having a job. Therefore, I understand that job creation – and it is in the situation where we're here right now – it's positive and is mitigating the effects of the crisis we have had. In 2011, Mr Hernández, 1,500 jobs per day were destroyed; 30% of fixed jobs were destroyed year by year at that time, until 2012 or 2013, when the job creation situation began to turn around and we went from destroying those 1,500 jobs per day to 2017 data, the creation of 1,700 jobs per day, 15% of them fixed, of which new jobs are being created. Today we are in a situation where fixed employment is growing, contrary to what you have said. And one of the greatest precarious situations in which workers find themselves is that their employment is not fixed. As fixed employment is growing; 3 out of 4 Spaniards have fixed employment, 73.4% at the end of 2017. That is the reality, that is the Eurostat data and the data from the EPA and the data from the National Institute of Statistics, data that I round up, because, as you know, I am a disaster for numbers and do not memorize them clearly. Sounds like good data to me. But I don't think it's good data thinking about that 25%, twenty-four and a half percent of the workers who don't have a fixed job. I tell you it's a good data because we're 4 or 5 points above the workers with a fixed current contract that was in 2016. In other words, we have not only recovered the fixed employment that has been destroyed from 2007 to 2013, but we are also in terms of fixed contracts under better conditions than we were in 2006. It is true that there is still a way to go, but that is why I was telling you that evolution is not correct from the point of view you have explained to us in the rostrum. Evolution is better, not worse. Fixed jobs are improving. I insist, three out of four jobs today are fixed. Regarding youth employment, of the rates of the first moments 2012-2013, in the youth employment of the under 25s has fallen by 20 points, the percentage of unemployed; half of the unemployed young people under 25s who were unemployed in 2013 have already regained their employment at the end of 2017. I think it's also good news. Then, young people also have jobs. Then we'll see what kind of employment they have, I agree with you, but that job creation, that drop in youth unemployment rates, I think it's very important. Women's unemployment is high, it's true. It is one of the most vulnerable groups, but we have to bear in mind that all the female employment that was destroyed during the economic crisis has recovered and today, in April 2018, there are more women working than ever before in Spain, and we are not talking about a very broad growth, unfortunately, of the population affected by their situation of working or not working. Many jobs have been created, the female employment that has been destroyed has been recovered and that job is better. It is true that there is a significant wage gap and that we have to take and take all possible measures to make it disappear. But the data isn't as bad as you told us, Mr Hernandez. We are below the average of the European wage gap, which I believe Eurostat places at 16.3 and we are at 14.9. Too much, right. But we are better off than our neighbours France, Germany or Portugal, and what needs to be done is to continue working with the instruments that we have and that are already in place to make it smaller. If we have more employment for all those vulnerable groups that I was talking about at first, we would have to see what conditions they are working in. The Interprofessional Minimum Wage is growing; 8% last year, 4% planned for this year, and a forecast of 5% and 10% for the next two years, 19 and 20, with the aim of reaching 2020 with a higher interprofessional minimum wage and with 20 million people working. This growth in employment is being made. 7 out of 10 jobs destroyed during the crisis have already recovered. And we are growing annually between 500 and 600,000 new jobs, so we can achieve 2020 perfectly, if we continue to implement the policies we have so far, with 20 million people working. And now we will focus on improving those conditions. The Minimum Interprofessional Wage has been considerably increased. We have to start another kind of policy in order to put an end to that scourge, which I also told you at the beginning, which is that of people who do not have qualifications. Great investments have been made, great improvements have been made. There are more and more places in Vocational Training. The data of Spain knows them and those of the Basque Country also, and in this rostrum has been spoken on many occasions; more places are created, because the jobs offered are much faster at the end of the studies and above very well paid. Then we try to correct that situation. That is why, Mr Hernández, I do not share your analysis at all, but surprisingly I am going to sign the agreement to which all the groups have come, because, indeed, what comes to us is that things are not bad and that things must continue to be done as they are being done. We could add more things, but as you will understand, I cannot stay out of a vote when what is being said in that agreement is true and when what we have to do among all of us is to hold our shoulders to work on improving the conditions of all workers, and that I agree with you that they can be improved. But we're not going back, we're going forward and the data is on top of the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u58	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Kortah's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u59	Yes, ma'am, Congressman, good day to all of you. Yes, sir, it's me. I changed look, but it's me. We wish to speak of the situation which more men and women live in their everyday life, especially of the state of labour, and of the influences which it has over the popular Basques. For, in the conditions of labour, and consequently in the conditions of life, prerogative is wholly installed in our country. You gave the data by the spokesman before me, and I'm not going to join that data dance, but it seemed to me very significant how Sara de la Rica introduced the last report of the job. And he said it was a businessman with dark lights and I'd say, at least for the last time, that the dark doesn't let our people see the light. Lack of work has collapsed, the number of people who are occupied has risen, but temporality also rises. In the middle of young women, employment grows, yes, but it is a dean. Euskaki has one of the greatest rates of prosperity in the state. The promotion of partial labors has no tie in our society and in our long-term labouring state. We have the effects of different business forms. There are more and more frequent sub-ractors, and in many situations of workers working with them, the administration is radical, and, besides, the administration is one of the greatest users of these sub-contradictions. We've already known the examples of it. In case of 112 workers, there are also the workers of Eupstate. They know what service is to get out of the house and hotel women, and what to say about public work: Anoeta, the crematorium... a work without confession. We are facing annihilation of work. Many of the citizens are employed in pretorial conditions. With no security in the shallow relationships, no protection. All those workers who don't have a collective contract of witness, most of them women. And the state of retirement, the appearance of the poor workers' purchases and the poor workers, in the midst of this process of preparation for the conditions of work, where wages are not strong enough to guarantee their escape from poverty. I can't forget our young men. They live for ever the prelate: The formation contract, the practice... Many of our young men take the first steps to the market. Many of our young men are on their way to become a generation without social and lava rights. Our society is deliating, and we've repeated it all over and over in this comedian. The Prefect of the Simplest, with which life-prediction is being rooted in our society. What comes over us from the hand of the neoliberal oference is very clear, and, gentlemen and ladies, if we do not do anything, the Prefect will stabilize in our country as a system. When we speak of the Prefect, we are speaking of want of stability and security, of all the fields of our life, of the impossibility of satisfying the material and social wants that make up our plans, of the preparation of life, and for a people who chooses to be worthy of it, it is a complete failure. For, look, there are two words that are very ill conjugated, prerogative, and happiness, or Praediction, and dignity. This general process of preparation acts directly in the physical conditions of development of our project, but even in the society pattern we have hitherto known, by overturning the models and inspirations of life which are deeply involved in us. The Prefect is becoming more and more extreme, and it's not a corridor, we're facing a first-class political case. The Basque Country is supposed to be in need of fighting and revolutions of this situation, and it is necessary to reflect on this profound transformation, and to take possession of its strategic dimensions. We can't tolerate the preparation as our vital characteristic, naturalize and chronification. They're trying to impose the Prefect on us by economic forces, and this for us is unacceptable. We are aware of this, for the means to prevent precarnation, values, and strategicities, will have a great influence on the model of society in the future. According to the last Deutobameter, unemployment and labour market and its conditions are, in this order, those who have been identified as the principal problems of this community by the Basque people. So this matter is of importance to the eupscal society. Besides, the euscal society shows itself in accordance with the solution of the problem. As far as the labour market and its conditions are concerned, most believe that the conditions will be maintained as they are, that there will be no improvements; they show resignation, and resignation does not match well with happiness. And the truth is that this Government's responses to this precarious situation are not to be very optimistic; the Basque Government does not seem to understand, does not become aware, does not want to acknowledge the gravity of the situation or defends other interests. This is the employment strategy, which Mrs Artolazabal has already presented to us at the time. We are already very critical of this strategy, and it is that this strategy does not speak clearly of precariousness; it is mentioned as weaknesses, as risks, it is said that perhaps one of the risks may be that job creation does not bring quality into employment; and it is said that it is possible and that it should be avoided, that at best it can happen, that not all people have equal opportunities to gain access to decent employment. But that's already a reality. We are presented with a plan of intentions once again, of good intentions, which do not translate into anything, at least into anything that will be translated into combating precariousness, improving the quality of employment and equal opportunities for access to decent employment. And I have also read the Strategy several times, and I have read it in depth. I have been very critical and we have also presented an initiative in this direction, which will allow us to discuss it at a later stage, I think on 9 or 10 May. Because this government has forward-looking information of great interest. Mr Aiartza said that the document itself collects information, graphs of great interest. The point is that then all this information has not been turned into concrete actions or specific directions that such a plan should have. And here he is, one of the most important means of reaching a really decent job. This was to be seen in the plan, this will against the Prefect was here to be seen here. But this government has chosen to leave the employment policies of this country in Confebask's hands and, logically, the fight against job insecurity is not one of the employers' priorities. But we'll ask the lehendakari tomorrow as well. Mrs Castelo also mentioned the topic of the civil dialogue table, of social dialogue as a method of dealing with precariousness. It will explain to us what is happening these days, but the government, the government, does not seem to share that method of the Socialist Group to combat precariousness. Today the groups that support the Government will tell us that they are concerned about job insecurity, but what is clear is that although they are concerned about this job insecurity, the precariousness of life does not occupy this Government. The presence of the Prefect requires organization, mechanism, and permanent strategy, adapted to it, and requires immediate need of them. He doesn't need any more good intentions, he doesn't need a statement, he needs an initiative. And that's why we share the diagnosis that the party proposing has made around the situation, and we'll probably be able to find out about the elements that this strategy to start, I'm sure. But today's initiative is very short. It's very short. It might be fine in declaration, but we're short. These compartmental concerns may be well, but when they are connected with other actions, they are not sufficiently and sometimes not credible. And besides, as we have said, we do not share the bearing of this strategy, we do not share the ends which are proposed to us, and we think that this fifth axis, which is properly referred to here, seems to us to be perhaps one of the most weak, and therefore we cannot protect this second point. We understand that it could have been a good start-up agreement, an agreement that could have allowed us to mark the direction of employment policies. But almost two years later, with an employment strategy already on the table and with the actions of this government, a government that turns its back on that civil dialogue table, with alliances with an employer who does not even respect the agreements that are being made in this Parliament, it seems to us that it is not enough and then it is not credible either. So we are going to make a statement in front of today's initiative, i.e. we're going to forget in that sense, we're not going to show any opposition, but we're not going to be able to do anything about it because we don't believe in it, we're not going to be able to protect ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing on the answers, together Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u61	Sí. The initiative is true that it has a declarative part, there is another part that we think is not declarative and it is the one that finally leads us to reach an agreement and to sign it. There is a first declarative part, the first point, which draws my attention to the fact that Mr Ruiz de Arbulo likes it, because then in his speech he said the opposite. The first point that says that precariousness is increasing, and you have said here that no, that as the People's Party has made a number of policies throughout the State precariousness is decreasing and we are on the right track. Well, the first point, which is declarative, in fact, makes it clear. Precarity is not just a real problem that we have now, but it is a real problem that is growing. And in my speech – logically, it cannot be put into the initiative because there are groups that have signed it that do not share it – I have said that this growing precariousness is not due to atmospheric issues either, but responds to certain interests, which are the ones that led to certain labor reforms. And yes, I look to the past, Mrs. Castelo, I look to the past because in these things you also have to look to the past, not as a reproach, but when you do an analysis of what is happening, you have to do it knowing what originates it. And that is our view of what originates it, the concrete intention to establish a new model, a new model of the world of work and a new productive model, where the profits of companies are increased at the expense of the degradation of working conditions, a new model that – I also share with something that has been said here – comes to stay, that is the objective. But there is a second part of the initiative where the proposed part is included, and that was our goal. That is why we were also presenting an initiative of such simple origin and without too many elements as perhaps on other occasions, because what we were looking for was that with the groups supporting the Government and with any other group we would come to an agreement to tell the Government that in these two years, in relation to the quality of employment, in relation to precariousness, no quantifiable objectives have been set. And we think that is necessary, and we say that they have not been marked. And you have described to me a number of objectives and that is why we too in our initiative We mention the plans of the Government, first of all, because although we have also been critical of them and have criticized them, they are already approved. But it is that they contain a series of headings, a series of challenges that on the text, on the role that bears everything, everyone agrees and, of course, you have been reading them here today when you told me yes, that the Government has specific objectives. Of course, but we're talking about quantifiable goals, because those goals you set are headings, they're phrases, that it's hard for someone to be against them. Less temporality, less partiality, promoting corporate social responsibility, creating healthy work environments. Sure, all right. But how much? Are we gonna measure that? How far do we want to go? That is what we are telling the government with this initiative and that you are telling it, because you have signed it, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, that concrete quantifiable objectives should be set. As you have said, we have to go down and you are going to lower the unemployment rate below the 10% in this legislature, something I have already told you before, I think they do because it is going to be a very easy propagating weapon, because that was going to happen. But just as they have done that, what is said with this initiative is that they say, "We're going to get to a time of x percent, we're going to get to a partiality of x percent, we're going to make there's no mobbing in companies." These are issues that can also be measured and that are hardly mentioned in the work plans. A lot of elements that are related to precariousness at work, that yes, they are measured in the indicators, but that when the Government is setting targets, it is not setting quantifiable concrete goals, and they are also leaving themselves, and we also leave ourselves in the speeches all, a lot of elements related to precariousness that go far beyond temporality. Because I believe that Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has said that the main element for measuring job insecurity is temporary employment. I think you said that, if I remember correctly, and I disagree, it is not the main element. It is a very important element, but even in indefinite jobs there is great precariousness and, therefore, precariousness cannot be measured with one element, neither with two, nor with three; it cannot be measured only temporarily or with partiality, precariousness must be measured by seeing exactly what is happening in the labour market. And, in this regard, our group will also carry out and has already registered some more initiatives and we have also called on the Councillor for Labour and Justice. We believe that the Government was not doing that and we are glad that today we tell it that it has to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u62	Go and finish it. Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u63	I am obliged to read what we are going to adopt in this Parliament today, because I think it is true that things when they are read have different interpretations, but I think this is very clear. "The plenary session of the Basque Parliament expresses its concern about the increasing precariousness of the labour market and its commitment to work within the sphere of its competences to reverse the process of precariousness of the labour market that we are experiencing in recent years." It urges us here in Parliament to work on this. I would like to add this to point three, because then what I want to do is to focus on point two: "And the plenary of the Basque Parliament undertakes to include as its objective the real and effective reduction of job insecurity rates through its legislative capacity". And on point two, what we approve is that the plenary of Parliament urges the Basque Government to keep as a reference point for its action, because it does, the achievement of a labour market that offers quality work – which is what I have tried to explain to you in the first intervention – by developing programmes on quantitative objectives for this purpose. –quantitative, which can be quantified, right?–, in relation to job insecurity. And that has to be translated into something, because of the precariousness of the job we have presented to you, I don't know what... It goes beyond temporary recruitment, it goes beyond part-time recruitment, it goes beyond wages, it goes beyond, it goes beyond... Concretize it, concretize it because here so much EH Bildu as you go to a general speech, you rise to me and we do not get to what the workers need to be reduced by their precariousness rate, which are concrete proposals, which are what I have tried to explain to you in my first speaking shift, which is being carried out by the Basque Government and, in particular, the Department of Labour, and the PNV representative has given you the vision in other departments. Therefore, it is very good that we show concern, but it is also very good that we have coherent strategies, as we say in this initiative, and it is much more interesting that, in addition to showing concern, we influence the public policies that are developing, because that means not to slip the lump. When one engages in a government, do not drain the bundle; when someone parapets behind the seat and does not want to reach agreements or concretions, what he does is drain the bundle. And I believe that we have done our duty here, both Parliament and the Government, because with regard to one of the important elements of job insecurity at the moment, which has to do with the issue of the amount of wages or the recovery of wages that have gone away. losing, with that painful devaluation that has been explained to us in the first item on this morning's agenda by the spokesman of the People's Party. We have here what we can do, which is to urge and request the social partners, protagonists of this necessary re-evaluation of wages, this necessary increase in wages. We have unanimously urged them from this Parliament to increase the wages of workers. And that also relates to something else, and this Parliament, this government, reached an agreement with the trade union centres to have the decree of structure. For what? To give content and priority to the Community's own conventions, to give better protection to workers. That is an instrument that has been launched and that we have often called for to be filled with content, and to fill it with content we must, as I say, exploit agreement and dialogue until exhaustion, and leave the negotiating tables is not the solution. The situation will have to be renewed, yes; there will have been bulwark errors, yes; the decision has not been correct, yes; but that does not prevent that Social Dialogue Bureau from having to continue its work and the withdrawal from that Social Dialogue Bureau all it does is harm those who need the agreement to achieve trade unions and employers in order to have such protection. Because there is also the precariousness of the labour market today and we have talked about it at point one with regard to the issue of wages on the subject of graduates, but we could also talk about it elsewhere. Because to do or to say that the SMI has risen to 635 euros when we have been talking about that equal 1,500 euros a month did not seem to us to be the most worthy wage, because, finally, it is what there is. I don't mind talking about the 2010 reform. Moreover, in the agreement of the Congress of Deputies, the 2010 agreement was incorporated. This is not going to be an obstacle for the Socialist Party in trying to put in place at this time the measures that are necessary to reverse this situation of job insecurity, which has to do with temporary recruitment, partiality, wages, occupational safety and health, and corporate responsibility and the proper management of human resources. That's what we're working on, in those concretions. Others, we don't know them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u65	Thanks again. Mr Hernández, very briefly, the initiative is not mine. The initiative is yours, the initiative is yours. You, with your initiative, like every member of this House, when you register an initiative marks the game, the playing field of the debate. The initiative is yours and you said it's a simple initiative. I don't think it's a simple initiative. It is an initiative that has its complexity, that is, it is a concrete initiative, it is an initiative on a relatively specific issue, with much depth it can be dealt with and I believe that it has been dealt with here. In any case, the initiative is yours. But what's going on? And I am addressing you, what happens to the debate? That we are going out here on a concrete initiative, which you are proposing, and what we see in the rostrum, because I wanted to stick to your playing field, I see that Mrs Castelo too, but what is being done is traps in the debate. Yes, yes, there are traps in the debate; the teleobjective is taken and we approach or move away depending on what... It is what you have done or I understand that Mrs Kortajarena has done too. I mean, what are we discussing? Job? Quality in employment or tools to measure quality in employment? Tools to measure quality in employment, objectives, concrete tools. I believe that what you are asking us is to discuss the third. I have no problem with discussing employment, a more general framework, to discuss with more approaches of principles of another kind that have been used here, I have no problem with discussing quality in employment, from a slightly smaller framework than the previous one, but with its limits, with its playing field. Nor do I have any problem – which is what we have done – with discussing objectives, measuring tools, which is what you are asking in the initiative, with which I do not understand that these traps are being set. Mrs Kortajarena said: "They present us with a plan of intentions". Yes, a plan of intentions; there are always intentions in a plan, it always goes from the broadest, and we can take this Strategy or any other plan and it goes from the broadest or from that focus that we said before to the most concrete, yes, yes. But today's debate, what is it? What are you talking about? Pour out those quantitative targets that you say. In fact, that concept of "quantitative objectives" has been the key to the agreement. We agree with that, because then let us talk about that, we are not being spared from the debate. Quantifiable objectives. I see quantifiable objectives or that are quantified, and not just what you say. For example, support for youth employment, job opportunity for 20,000 young people, I see it is quantified. Another, an annual growth of 5% of the R & D & i budget, is quantified by a percentage, is perfectly quantified; another, referring to the digitisation of enterprises, modernisation and digitisation of 1,500 companies, I see there's quantification. And there is also quantification in the resources allocated to them, that is, let us not cheat, let us not say that there is no such quantification. What do you think is appropriate and so on? We have no problem in moving forward because, of course, there is always room for improvement, without any doubt. We don't have any problems, but it's quantified. It is quantified, measured, and from these measurements, these indicators, these measurements are drawn conclusions to further improve on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u66	Mr. Akianz, thank you. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, Mr Aiartza, of course there is room for improvement and that is what we are all working on, and that is why we will support the initiative. I have told you that temporality, of course, is not the only index that measures precariousness. I think he's the most important, but he's not the only one. That is improving and much, better than in 2006, but I also tell you, Mr Hernández, what I told you before, that wages are low and that you have to raise them. And I can tell you that the People's Party is doing everything it can and, in fact, if we actually have budgets, you know that this year will raise the salaries of public employees by 1.75%, that this is the government's responsibility, and that the margin is that in three years they will rise by 8.8. That's making things better. And since the Ministry of Labour is urged, Minister Fátima Yáñez has urged companies to raise workers' wages. Indeed, there is precariousness, but we are improving it. I understand that you were born at a tremendous time, with millions of jobs destroyed, and people who wanted to work and couldn't do it, in a situation of very worrying poverty, but it is that this scheme, that photograph of when you as a political movement were born, is changing, thanks to policies, among others, of the People's Party. That's the way it is, Mr. Hernandez, I'm sorry. And you propose a series of recipes that I do not share at all. You don't have the government experience to tell us, "We've ruled, we've done this, this is the solution." That's what I'm telling you, how we find the country in 2011 and how it is now, our recipes do work. I hope I can never go up to the rostrum and tell you that the recipes you have made in your government of Podemos have worked, because I hope you will never manage to rule for the good of all citizens. Because, look, left-wing employment policies don't usually work well. Neither by age nor by historical knowledge can I give you the clear data, but I will look for them and I will send them to you one day. Do you know, after all the years of socialist government, the first stage of the governments of Felipe González, do you know after all those years how the number of workers in Spain increased? No way. And we're talking about the years when the people we were born in the baby boom were entering the labor market. Social Security affiliation data and data from people working in Spain when those Socialist Party governments ended were the same as those left by the UCD. Worrying data. He says, "Well, it was the historical juncture anyway." For curiously, the governments of the People's Party are coming, employment is growing, the number of people who want to work is growing and they can do it, they are doing it in better conditions. And then the governments of the Socialist Party arrive. Do you know what the number of social security affiliations has increased? Nothing. Jobs were destroyed. Then, allow me, Mr Hernández, to tell you that I do not trust the recipes of the left in job creation because, despite the huge creation in these two periods of jobs in the public administration, the general membership data had not grown. Why? Because those recipes are proven to be useless. Others do, and the data is on top of the table. That there are things to improve? Of course I do. I also agree with Mrs Kortajarena. Creating employment does not mean that such employment is of quality. But, of course, what will not deny me is that if we do not create jobs, employment will not be of quality. Let us therefore continue to create employment, as is being done now. Let us support those measures and then gradually improve, as is also being done, the quality of those jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. And finally, the representative of the EH Collect Group, Mrs. Kotha's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u69	Yeah. Thank you. Look, Mr. Aardz, we are here today about the prevarietary business, and we are talking about the lava prevarication of the life that brings it. That's what we're talking about. And we're talking about the organizations, contrivances, and strategics necessary to answer it. For both of you and the members of Podemos, both of you, in the original initiative, and then in the action which you have entered, have referred to it. So we're talking about all this today's discussion. Eta horrelako egoeraren aurrean, nik uste dut diagnostikoa, mila batan behintzat, hemen gauden askok konpartitu dugula, posemenduetan behintzat. Gobernu honek bi gauza jarri dizkigu momentuz mahai heurean. Batetik jarri says strategy beats, implements strategy beats. Gure iritziz, eta hor Aiartza jaunak esandakoari helduko diot, gure iritziz: "A strategy that has a lot of room for improvement, to say it in some way, a lot, a lot." And that is why we have put forward an initiative in this direction that we will discuss in the coming days. Therefore, Mrs Castelo can also be calm, because we will bring those proposals that day. We have already shared them with you on the initiative and we will have an opportunity to discuss them. Not only did we plant ourselves on the theoretical plane. You have spoken on the theoretical plane and then you have come down to concrete, and we and we do exactly the same. You talked about the indicators, about the objectives that appear in this plan. I've read this very closely and very sharply in order to prepare this next initiative. And you may go to those objects which are measured by you, and which are referred to the quality of employment. And a search, a search, a search, a busquen beliefs that they're not entre los resperados, no que tenga que ver la calida en el empleo y la lucha contra precaedad. And, as I said, he put two things on the table. Busque uno señora Castelno, busque uno. He put two things on the table, as I said. This plan, a plan that should be improved in our opinion, a plan that should be improved. For, besides, CSE, not only tells us that she does not do the qualitating of her plan on the stage of this strategy. It's not just the Basque People's opinion. CSE is planning things the same size. It also concludes also that some of the pre-prepare operations have been made before, and have no positive influence on them, and yet they are again repeated again, but we shall discuss it further. And this government proposes to us one more thing, and it is a point which has been added to the table for the last few days. And it's the interview that he's been ignoring the unions and in the hands of the patricians that he's entrusted to Confebask with all the responsibility for fine jobs. And we think that's completely unacceptable. As long as he remains in the power of Confebask, that good intention to make a contest or employment against the prelate, and if this intention and prevention be left in Confebask's hands, how our future employment should be, or how it should be, we shall not make this will true about precoction. And so did Mrs. Castelo. And he would say: "What method of preventivery is that? "That table for conversation, social conversation, and social conversation." And this government turned his back on him. Mr. President is here too and turned his back on it, and we'll ask him about it tomorrow. But you've turned back on this interview-table and the table of exchanges-that way of fighting against the Prefect may be at the back of that table. I agree with Mrs. Castellao there too. But as long as the employment police are still in the hands of Confebask, when they are to be in the hands of Mrs. Artola generous, I believe we are at liberty with all these good intentions and intentions. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Now that we've finished all our discussions, we'll go to the vote, and the first vote will be about what young men are going to receive from the university license, degree, and official master titles. This is where we vote for EHG and together the middle-term correction signed by Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 25; counters, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u71	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, as the whole of the Euscal Popular crew has been a retired correction, we'll vote for the Euas Abertist and Sociialists in full correction of the teams of Basque Sociists. We can vote.(stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u72	So, it's okay with the EUbertians and the Basque Socialists to rectify the teams. Next day, the Euscal Populars introduced to college about the Spanish and literature results. What we're gonna vote for is the original text of Mrs. Bengochea Strade's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 9; counters, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u73	So, not allowed original text. After that, we'll vote together for the full correction of Podemos. We can vote. [[Berber]] Now, yes. We can vote. (Pause)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u74	So, it's not supposed to be a full-correction of Podemos together. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 15; counters, 46; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u75	So, the full correction of the EH Collect Group is not accepted. Finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and the whole corrections of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters, 37; counters, 24; white, 0; Abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u76	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. We're going to vote for the third point, the workprefect. What we're gonna vote for is Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendors who have signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters of 56; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-26.u77	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Next, I'll read an institutional statement. "Incredibilityal expression for the International Day of Work Security and Health. "1. Next Saturday is 28 April, Business Security and Health International Day all over the world. "The Basque Act remarks that the whole society cannot take as the natural evil of the world of labour accidents and diseases, which may often be brought to an effect by severe injury, for it can end the life of the workers in the most serious and most serious cases. "Besides, in the opinion of the Basque Laws, the preventive must also be considered as a factor which increases the frequency of accidents. "2. The Basque Parliament states that safety and health at work is one of the responsibilities of employers. As stated in the Occupational Risk Prevention Act, it is their responsibility to ensure the effective implementation of the most appropriate preventive measures at all times, as well as the monitoring of the health of women workers in their workplaces. Beyond the competences already mentioned. "It is undeniable that women workers must also be aware of the need for the use of the protection equipment available to them. And to have the necessary training and to highlight those situations of obvious risk that can come to detect in their jobs. "It is also the responsibility of public administrations to provide comprehensive health and safety care by enforcing policies for the prevention of occupational risks and quality employment. "3. Thus the Eusun legislator considers that it is indispensable to offer the means necessary for public administration to fulfil their functions. "It's impossible to deny the work of the administration and especially of Osalan in the last 25 years. However, from the statistics given by this organism, the work is not entirely satisfied. Because a work accident has to be understood as a failure. "So, Osalan and Work Visions will have to ensure the materials and personal resources necessary for the preparation, and the proper conditions of work must be guaranteed. "4. To the extent that responsibility is shared, the Basque Parliament urges all actors involved in the solution to work together to avoid accidents at work and to ensure that the incidence of occupational diseases is as low as possible." As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-two.
