ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u0	Good morning. We'll start the whole meeting. Quiet, please. It's a full meeting. First point in theme list: "Eva Juz Gargage concerning the mutual condition of the parliamentary members of the legislature. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Do any of the legislatures want to speak against or against the judgment? [[Pause]] That's all we're going to vote for. Except the congressman with regard to the crime, the other members of the legislature can vote. So we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 65; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the white ones are 0,0; abstaining, 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u1	So it's unanimously accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Agree corrections of the whole bill of law which has been submitted to the use of public administrations of Euscal Autonomia Erria. The discussion and the vote. Mrs. Gaddy has her word to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u2	Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. The European Union compels the new regulations composed of preponderances and civilizations to become in some way preponderant in three or four areas; to save energy, to promote efficiency, and to resurrectating solutions on the most recurrent energy, and also to put them in motion. These solutions will be competitive in places where the administration has the power and just...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u3	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u4	...in buildings connected with administrative facilities and offices, in the needs of their employees, even in public lighting. If the public Basque sector has the power to save power, and the great one, it has to take the leadership function in order to advance the initiatives which this people has to do around the mergetic efficiency. Besides, economic profits will arise, including social and environmental profits. And for all of us, the whole society, for the sake of what it is to be, the happy thought of starting in the previous law of art (as is the strategic plan around power, in account of 3E2030), a law project to save power, and make some kind of endurance in energy. That bill of law in July 2016...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u5	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u6	...we agreed on July 19th to the Council of Government, and he came here on the 21st of July to the legislature. Because of the elections, he was unseasonable, and during this time of law, I was thought to introduce that law again, and start a law that will be the most successful part of the legislature. The aim, therefore, is to set up a final text with the greatest possible consensus, based on a reference text submitted by the Government. The main feature of this energy sustainability law is that it will be applied in the Euskadi Autonomous Community Administration, as well as in the three historical territories and in the municipalities of our community, and is linked, only and exclusively, to building management and mobility in the vehicles of the administrations. The objectives it sets out are ambitious. These include reducing energy consumption by 25 % by 2025, developing audits and plans, both for efficiency and for mobility, aimed at reducing consumption, which by 2025 at least 25 % of the Administration's buildings have renewable energy use facilities, or 100 % of the renewed fleet will have to use alternative fuels from 2020 onwards. He said that this bill is part of the 3E2030 strategy, which guides actions in the field of energy, and that it sets out, among other objectives, to intensify actions that lead to energy efficiency and that among all sectors we reduce consumption (in teps) by 1.250,000 by 2030. We want to be a responsible, exemplary and relevant public administration in this type of action and, therefore, we must promote actions that will lead us to achieve all these objectives that we have set ourselves. The bill presented is structured into three chapters, with three additional provisions and two final provisions. In addition to the above objectives, it should be noted that in order to achieve a 25 % reduction in consumption by 2025, secondary objectives are set, which can be cited below, including promoting energy efficiency and the promotion of savings, promoting and implementing renewable energy installations, progressively reducing the use of oil, promoting and promoting alternative fuel transport, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, reducing the energy bill of the Administration, or promoting and promoting research and development in energy saving technologies and techniques. In short, it is about achieving those four main objectives that we have set ourselves, and that through actions in public buildings and mobility we will be able to achieve those objectives. To this end, the law states that each administration will have an energy sustainability commission, which for municipalities with more than 25,000 inhabitants must be established within one year of the adoption of the law, and in municipalities with between 5,000 and 25,000, within two years of the adoption of the law. This commission shall make an inventory of the elements of its administration or of its municipality, and shall monitor and ensure compliance with the law, report regularly on the status of its action plan, and make a report containing all these actions. One of the main actions contained in this bill is, of course, to carry out this inventory; an inventory of buildings and mobile park and public lighting installations, measuring their consumption and energy expenditure in each of the buildings separately and in each of the mobility and public lighting elements. That is, differentiating each of the performances. In addition, a control of consumption will be carried out. Within one year, after the implementation of the law, buildings and installations with an installed power of more than 25 kW shall have energy meters measuring such consumption. Energy audits will also be carried out within three years, and public buildings with an installed power of more than 70 kW will be diagnosed with consumption and measures will be put in place to reduce consumption. In addition, energy action plans will be established, with a diagnosis and breakdown of the sources of consumption, including, as we have said, buildings, public lighting and mobility, and will meet the requirements set out in the law. The use of energy from renewable energy: it should be noted that each administration in 2025 will have at least 25 % of its buildings, as we said, with renewable energy installations; and in addition, the invitation to tender for the purchase of electricity will particularly assess its renewable origin, and it will be possible to require that 10 % of the energy acquired is green energy, provided that it is economically reasonable. In addition, the renovation of equipment, facilities, services... All actions carried out in public buildings must have a high energy efficiency, looking for those installations, those equipment belonging to the highest energy efficiency class. Centralised management systems shall also be established, where possible, including online monitoring of current consumption. And with regard to vehicles, they will be considered their life cycle, the energy and environmental impacts of each of them and of each of the management's mobile parks. As regards buildings, the measures to be implemented are: that the buildings of the Administration must have an energy efficiency certificate within two years of the entry into force of the law; that 25 % of the existing buildings in each Administration whose energy rating level is lower than B, by the year 2025, must have an action plan that will lead them to improve their energy efficiency, although exceptions will be made in those buildings of special architectural or historical value, places of worship or temporary installations whose duration will be less than two years. There are also several undertakings connected with transport and motion, which are established by the laws, and on the one hand we mention the means of putting alternative fuels into their own vehicles. And among them, it must be said that 100% of the cars that are imported after 200,000 years must be the base of alternative power. Well, that wouldn't have worked out if it needed to be a security vehicle, if they didn't do it. I quote security: security, health security, security for people. That's where we can make the exceptions. The municipal administration will also have a point to load electric vehicles from 2,000 inhabitants at 2025. for the year. And around the new buildings, and also, to load vehicles, the points will have to be necessary, from that point forward. As for the public service for transporting passengers by road, alternative fuel will be used as much as possible, and, moreover, it will be considered that the 100 percent of the recent fleet will be under alternative fuel from 2020. Each council may either prohibit or reduce access to certain areas, such as do not use alternative fuel, or transports with a high emission level. The townships above 25,000 inhabitants must have a scheme of city-muticiency, which must be put to work two years after the law has been started. When the townships are smaller, when they have 5,000 and 25,000 populations, they will have three years to set up that motion plan of motion for three years. Even the flanks must establish a motion plan, in this case it will be a movement plan between the cities. This plan will consider all transports, and will also have to set points to load alternative fuel vehicles, where they will be and how they will be. Public transport, private transport... All these plans will be established, and they will encourage the use of their bicycles, and they will need to be set up in each administration. In fine, the measures which have been established by the authorities to increase their savings and efficiency will have to be recorded in a report for years and years. In the report, then, the measures and results taken in the vehicles, constructions, and electricity. Power-prediction and efficiency-even the techniques to increase, and their needs, may also be put into preparation, which are adapted to their wants. And, not intentionally, they'll have to show that all buildings have a label in their energy efficiency, and that even lights and, of course, vehicles. So based on the 3E2030 Plan, based on strategy, this law encourages energy management, less energy, and also less use fossil fuels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The representative of the EH team has the word, Mr. Otero, to defend the full correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u8	Hello, good morning, everyone. We need to grow up. I don't fit things. I'll say I'm glad I'm here today. For the result of the vote of the whole method of discussion, though it be not our party, the important discussion we shall give, and not only of importance, seems to me to be urgent. And I think the forum is right. I'd like to make some confessions before I start. And I must confess, though not usual, that if we have finally made a full correction, we have had doubts. We have hesitated, because we feel that a law about energy is absolutely necessary, and it seems to us that we cannot leave another legislation without entering into the subject. I confess, too, that we have some conformity with the law which has been introduced to us, though I am to-day one of those which I am to focus on. And I confess that even if the correction of the whole of today does not go forward, we will be willing to do it, and we have also introduced 128 corrections. So, apart from confession, I leave the offer here, now in everyabout energy, sure of critical, but in order to continue the constructor. To say this, it is time for us to penetrate into the question of Urgent, and whether we are able to make a good diagnosis without being strong among us all. And I'm sorry, but being honest makes us raw. It's very correct, as we said, that the energy, creation, supplies, and consumption of two leading challenges in the year and decades to come. And both are vital. It's not just us that say this. The Energy Sustainability Act is supposedly linked and consistent with the 2030 energy strategy. In this document one can read something that I think is fundamental, and I quote: "In the diagnosis of the situation, the sustainable development strategy of Euskadi 2020 shows that, of the three main threats to the welfare system, two are related to energy: the depletion of resources, including fossil energy, and climate change, also linked to the current energy model". I repeat, of the three main threats to our well-being, two are directly related to energy. I hope this will help to clarify the importance of the issue. I will reach the first of the two, the climate change. To prevent climate change from being destructive, gas leaks from the heat effects must decrease. 2050. for years, according to the purposes of Europe, gases should be between 80 to 95%, compared to data in 1990. On the other hand, according to the latest reports, it's supposed to be 80% of energy supplies and consumption. And more here. According to Ihobe's latest data, the energy sector emits 35 % of emissions, transport 30 % and industrial 21 %, all related to the burning of fossil fuels. A total of 86% of emissions. I don't know if you've had a chance to read it. The IPCC International panel has leaked two weeks ago and it's very hard there, and they say: "If we want to face climate change and global warming, the rapid and deep changes will be needed. It's a critical situation. The rise of 1,5 degrees in this rhythm will be in 2040. If you don't make a drasstic reduction, targets are impossible to fill, there's need to be bigger down in all sectors, less energy, less power consumption, less gas from the greenhouse effects, deleting carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. And all measurements are irresistible." And they go on: "The transition of power is indispensable. The energy per capita is critical in places of high consumption. To strengthen the general answer, all countries ought to exaggerate their ambitions." This one was published in the fall. It is plain, then, that the situation must be upset. And most of the measurements are connected to energy. How can we make energy laws and climate changes separately? We don't understand. This is one of the principal reasons of the whole correction. And the other, the other great challenge, is that our neurotic model has another great talent de Aquiles, isn't it? And what is it? Well, fossil sources of energy are limited. Surprise. We know, right? With regard to these, the reduction in a short term is indispensable, and the reduction in a midterm. And speaking of dependencies, of course, we have an energy dependence of 93% on the highest in Europe. These are the values: oil, natural gas, electrical imports, renewables. And part of the electricity imports, of course, are renewable: 40% in 2016 (last published data). So it's a terrible drug addict. But the dependence on the fossils of our neuroptic system is 80%. So I'll come back to him later, but this is very, very hard and very violent. And here, too, I want to leave an element for reflection. The very name of the law is: patient. The law is called "Evility in the Public Administration" (to make them more just, we ought to speak of permanence). If we had to define this, we could say: It is tolerable to employ the means of satisfying our present wants without spending the natural and natural resources which the succeeding generations require. That is, sustainability, which is supposed to be what the law is about, is based on a way of life and a use of resources that covers the needs of the present, without compromising the needs of future generations. Having said that, which is quite obvious and, as Borja Semper would say, it is not necessary to be Churchill to realize that our life system is not sustainable in that, from an energy point of view, which is the precursor of all economic activity, it is based on 80% energy raw materials that are not renewable and are not recyclable; it is difficult to talk about sustainability. And it's neither renewable nor recyclable. I mean, I use metal to make an engine, I can recycle and re-use that metal; but I'll no longer be able to use the gasoline I burn in that engine. And understanding this is fundamental, and I cannot entertain myself very much, but I think that establishing the conceptual framework of what is intended to be regular is important when it comes to developing anything and, in this case, a law. So we cannot talk about energy sustainability with 80% non-renewable consumption and heating the planet. In any case, we could talk about a transition to a sustainable model; it can be so in the future, not in the present. Therefore, the name of the law is incorrect and does not go according to what I would say today is a global consensus. And if not, look at the Energiewende of Germany, the energy transition of France, energy transition. We can say that in any language, but there is a consensus. So by linking all this together, it is a matter of necessity for us to speak of climate change and emergency transition, to unite and to make the law. And that's the law we need, and that's not the law that came to us. That's why we're asking him to come back. The law, which has been introduced to us, is a bad one, because it aims at the Esscan Administration. And the chief physician didn't say, but the date came from your department in time: It supposes 3% of the autonomical Euscalic consumption. We're talking about 3%, and the power consumption is out of 97%. Or, well, there are shades. We'll say "out there." And we were told that by this law we could go beyond the public administration (by means of this law and by means of this law) and by means of which we can go beyond the public administration. But this is what I'm going to explain now is a dangerous method, because the analysis that we have to make before the proposed use of the emergency transition from all sectors has been done. It's not done. We haven't had on the table a report, analysis, discussion, and discussion, about the state of energy or the energy of the first sector, the industry, the wastes, the wastes, the transports, or the energy of the vitals. Then I'll give you a little French case to compare it. And despite not having had an in-depth debate, a lot of amendments are now coming from the PNV and the PSE, which act as regulating the private sector, but what they do is scratch a little on the surface. It is best to take a look at how the amendments have been drafted, so that I can understand them. I'm going to go to a couple of them, but I could go to almost anyone. Amendment 37, article 39, obligations of the residential sector in existing buildings, paragraph A, "shall have to have systems in the form and time limits that are determined by regulation"; B, "audit as regulated by regulation"; C, "in the form and time limits that are established by regulation"; D, "the minimum criteria that are determined by regulation shall apply"; E, "the relevant regulatory measures shall be established to encourage substitution"; F, "the existing housing communities shall regulate the criteria"; G, "Community garages shall regulate the criteria and conditions". Of course, I mean, we'll do everything later. We will do everything later, for the time being we will move the law forward and then everything remains in the hands of the Government. Amendment 42, requirements for private transport fleets with the frequency to be determined. Certain fleets that meet the criteria that are established, will have fleets, alternative systems in the terms that are regularly developed. We don't even know when, we don't know what criteria, we don't know what terms. And everything that comes to regulate the part of the private sector, everything is like that. It's all like that. I mean, here what you come to ask for is a blank check because, of course, in a law there are always things left to define. But everything to be defined? Everything? We have gone from 28 articles to 68, and in these 40 articles there has been no analysis, there has been no debate. It is not analyzed either what it means or what it costs or anything; it has improvised. It has been improvised and this is where I am surprised, and I appeal also to the rest of the opposition, the People's Party and Podemos, because in the end what is about to be done is to give a blank check. With such blank checks it's that he rules to the touch, that is, it's that... And therefore we think that the Law, (and I speak of Public Administration,) might be at most a section or chapter of the Law we need, and therefore the correction of our whole. Nevertheless, though it be not much, I wish to introduce a little into the law, because the law has privations, and there are very considerable privations. One, about the measurements, because the original text didn't mention anything, it's the same whether you keep the law or don't, because there's no measureifying. I shall not entertain much here, for the executive measures in the corrections come, and it appears to me that this may be well regulated. That's the second big deficiency in the financial area. We said that without funding and without self-control, this is not a law; it is a plan or intention, but not a law that will be effective. And this deficiency existed, and I think it exists. The memory of the law admits that hundreds of millions of dollars' investments should be made: 461 million in an initial estimate. And duty, Mrs. Tapia has mentioned many of them, but she didn't make any suggestions about making funds for investments. All this appeared in the report of the economic control office in a very crude manner and revealed the weakness of the whole law. In financial matters, it's important to mention the Eukadical Country Act. And this law is violated, because it mentions nothing of it about the money required to maintain the financial avarice of the townships. Of course, this problem was detected from the beginning, not just us. Eudel stressed it several times, and now we have on the table an amendment (apart from ours, which we have put in a whole chapter) that I think is... because I would say that completely insufficient. Because in an amendment from Podemos that says that "in the fiscal year following the entry into force of the law, the Administration will articulate the financial instruments so that the planned actions can be made effective", again we are with the blank checks. "It will articulate the necessary financial instruments": we are not talking about how, what, what amounts, who will manage it, we do not know what contributions it will have from each institution. It will be articulated, it will be done; well, we will see, we will see what will be done. A third section or third review is about the ambitions of the designs. Even now, Mrs. Tapia, you're talking about ambitious targets and you're looking at me as ambitious and ambitious strategy as 2030. The state of the Euscal administration, as well as of the neurotic dependency, as of the retrograde energy, is, in an alternative motion, very poor, and at the present day, the retractable percentage of energy is minimum. And the rate of auto-crement, nothing. This also is seen in memory: 9% is the rate of autowidth. If this is the case (and it is a difficult situation), but to say that we are ambitious, we should at least approach the ends of the European Union. Or didn't you? I mean, now, this month and the next, there'll be triloges in Europe, and there's a discussion. The purpose of the 27th retals proposed by the European Council, and of Parliament, of Europe, of 35% of what it pleases. Debilitating horrendous pie. Guk esaten dugu: Tapia andreak esan du legearen helburua, besteak beasts, administration her hersed hers. Hori horrella bada, Administraziorentzako helburuek nola izan ahal due, adibidez, lurralde osorekiko jartzen ditugun helburuak bath txikiagoak? Hau da, 2030 strategyk, 2030ean, ez 27 eta 35 arteko banda horretan, baizik eta %21 in final energy consumption. Considering that half of the renewable energy we consume here today is plugged into Spain via renewable electricity, because this 21%, actually, would stay, I don't know... The target could be 12, 13, 14 at most, at most. But it's the same, we're at 21, we're still far from that 27-35 fork. But with this law we are talking about getting 13.9% in 2025. And we say we're ambitious? Neither the law nor the energy strategy from which the law hangs is ambitious. So the 2030 energy strategy tells us: "a share of renewables in final consumption of 21 % is pursued. All these goals are certainly ambitious, but only if they are ambitious can they be achieved." But we are not ambitious, and careful, that I do not say that it is easy or reach those minimums that we have marked. I understand that as it is today, the energy situation is complicated, but let us not cheat; because we cheat, we say we are ambitious when we are not. Ambitious is Denmark: a 100% renewable target in 2050, 100% renewable electricity and heat in 2035. Ambitious is the Balearic Islands, which are now dealing with the climate change and energy transition bill; they are focusing a little better: 2050 target, 100% renewable, ban on gas or gasoline circulation on the islands from 2035 onwards (so the one with plans...), 35% renewable by 2030, 35% renewable by 2030, and they do not start from a good situation. Nafarroa, 40 % reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, compared to 1990 levels. We are talking about a range of 35-40%; it depends on the plan we are looking at, because the energy strategy does not say the same thing as the "Climate 2050", the strategy to combat climate change. That is another problem: that we cannot bring it together, and then it turns out that we have different objectives, in different departments of the Government. It's just that it's very serious. Even France, which is also not part of a good position, talks about increasing the weight of final consumption renewables by up to 32% by 2030. So, "ambitious" I wouldn't say. Well, the fourth, and I'm going to finish it, about the intervention, and I think, though it seems formal, there's one of the fundings here, one of the issues. The deficiencies of the division are pretty obvious. My God, before he accepted the bill, he sent it to some organizations. And, strange as it may seem, one of the answers arrived only in four cases from the 19 institutions. The town councils of Gasti and Donostea have given no opinion. Nor the people of Araba and Gipulia. Not even Basque City University. Parting mechanism didn't work, and I don't just blame you when you're doing it. But considering that we shall be citizens, the users of the public administration's buildings and services, the voices of the people are not very clear. The judgment of the religious class does not appear. Not the most different cause of energy. In the growth of the law, the division of the citizens is scarcely a part of it. And if the internality of the people is not reached, we shall have nothing to do with it, and the mechanism of participation would have to be maintained in the law. Starting with children in education, with all ages and all users. Even here, well, there's a bunch of corrections. And, to compare, two weeks ago the Balearic Government presented the Preliminary Draft Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. Francina Armengol of the PSOE said: "The energy transition needs dedication, means and collaboration of all." The accompanying adviser explains that the bill, which will soon begin the public exposure process, is born of a broad participatory process, with more than 2,000 people making contributions, and has been made with a multitude of meetings with different economic and social sectors to ensure the effectiveness of the measures to be taken. In France, the Energy Transition Act was adopted in 2015; it began to be implemented in 2013, with an energy transition plan. In two years there is a process, to get the participation of all actors in the sector. The views of the National Energy Transition Council, the Higher Energy Council, the Environmental Authority and the Committee of Experts on Energy Transition are taken into account. Thematic workshops open to all stakeholders, political parties, trade unions, energy companies, NGOs and associations representing local communities are then organized. Under the supervision of a monitoring committee, which takes stock of its progress, a massive participation, presentations, meetings, and after all, public consultation. And it seems interesting to me, because Ségolène Royal, who was the minister of the branch at the time, was saying something that I think is important. He said: "This is the first time that a great industrial power has involved civil society in defining its energy strategy. I count on you to continue to expand this project and make it yours in your day. The commitment of all is essential for the success of the energy transition. Everyone's commitment is essential to the success of the energy transition." And here, how did it go? Well, since the Energy Plan 2025 was approved in December 2016, without accounting for the previous plan, 2011-2020, and almost nothing of what was coming here had been accomplished. But it is that at seven months another plan is proposed, in July 2016, the one that is in force, also changing a lot of goals in seven months. And now the law has been written... How many people have written? And the parties that support the government, moreover, knowing that the law could change substantially, did not ask for a single appearance; I believe that neither did the People's Party. Of course, now a 28-article law becomes one of 68 articles, and the contrasts of these articles and participation in enlargement... who has taken part in this? To finish it, I can talk whatever you like about the law I'm about, but it's important to say what the law we need to talk about and what it doesn't have to talk about. And I think we need to talk a little about the law's reaction. For the effect of a law of energy must speak about the state of energy or of actual state, but it does not. The preamble to the law really seems amazing to me. He talks about energy a little as well as very generally and then mentions problems. On the problems, he says: "Now, energy consumption presents different problems; on the one hand, it is about using energy in the most efficient way possible" – without explaining anything about why it is, how it is,... nothing – "which is an obvious challenge in today's societies in physical and economic terms. On the other hand" – and for me this is the fattest – "is the issue of emissions". I mean, "there's the issue of emissions": "we have a little problem out there...". If we are saying that the issue of climate change and the issue of dependence on fossil fuels are two of the three most important challenges to maintaining our well-being, how can we talk about climate change by saying, "This is the issue of emissions"? He says: "It is necessary to adopt measures that significantly reduce these emissions through, inter alia, energy sustainability". Energy sustainability is that I don't understand how it's understood... Someone has to come down and explain it to me, because energy sustainability will be that stage, that situation in which we understand that this is sustainable over time for generations. But through energy sustainability, that is... I don't even understand what you're talking about. So, of course, I imagine the Basque Energy Authority has written this. I understand that this – "is the issue of emissions" – is something that sounds a little distant to them. Anyway, and to finish... (doesn't give me time to a lot of things I was going to say). This law has dangers, and the greatest danger it has is that it looks a little bit at the little thing, while we don't want to see the elephant in the room or, rather, the elephants in the room. The elephants in the room are several. One – and it does not give me time – is the dependence on oil, the dependence on gas and the mess we have with electricity generation, which we are in a 15% renewable generation of its own for 85%. And, of course, when we talk about electrification, we have a problem, because let's see if we're gonna make a bread with some pies... I mean, first you'll have to come, I don't know how to say, move on to renewable, and then we can talk about something that's starting to look like a path to sustainability. About oil, we have another problem. It is, once again, the consumption of oil and the consumption of gas. Of course, as the economy is growing, they continue to grow; we have not managed to untie that. Data from the last two years on emissions are also rising. And dependence on oil (which, one after another, all the plans have tried, or put it into the target), turns out we don't get it – least of all, this slide seems important to me to teach it, to see when we get let do a PowerPoint. Of course, we have been with the EVE since the year 82, after the crises of the 1970s, and it turns out that we always, in the plans, have the objective of reducing dependence on oil. Are we more or less dependent on oil now? Of course, if we look at the consumption of oil in terms of final consumption, it turns out that in the 1980s we are here, we climb to a peak in 2007, the crisis comes (and not anything else), we put a cake in the consumption of oil, but now it turns out that we have returned, in 2017, to the peak of dependence – in absolute terms – on oil; with which, we are getting nothing. And we continue to present the gas consumption increase data. Before yesterday or so, it came to Deia that electricity and gas are pulling out of consumption, and that's also good because combined cycles are set in motion. When it turns out that, of course, this comes because we have another problem, which is that the drought in Spain forced last year to lower hydroelectric production by forty percent. So, we have a mess here with which we grow and throw out consumption, then we throw out energy consumption,... and it turns out that that's giving us problems in emissions – as we're seeing – and it's giving us more and more problems in dependence. That's the elephant in the room. And then, finally, the other elephant in the room is the public interest and the private interest. Then I'll explain a little more of this. But there is one thing that worries me very much, and many amendments go in that direction. We ask, want (and through the amendments we have done) that the EVE be a strong institution, much stronger than it is now. Because we understand that energy is a public matter, to the extent that it is a collective challenge in this society. When we understand it this way, in safety, in health, in education...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u9	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u10	Yeah, I'm done right away. ... We put thousands of people to work on this, from the public treasury. And it turns out that in energy, which is a fundamental issue, we have the EVE with 66 people. 66 in front of... How many thousands are there in Osakidetza? How many thousands are there in the Ertzaintza? How many thousands are there in Education? Of course, if energy is a public matter, but of private economic interest, of private gain, we have a problem. And this law, like all the laws that exist in energy, will have to be directed towards the primacy of the public, but well... Well, for the time being, I leave it with this waiting for your answer. Let's see what the second shift looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u11	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Now, which side are they going to take? On the other side? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Not the Popular sects (explicitacion de votos). Well, Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u12	Yes, thank you, President, and good morning to you all. First of all, I thank Mr Otero for the tone, because, indeed, he who presents an amendment to the whole with the level of arguments or qualifications that he has used so, indeed, the tone is to be thanked. And before moving on to the intervention that I had prepared, which was a little more generic, explaining why we were against the Socialist Group of its amendment to the whole, I did want to say that, for a bit of the end, the importance or not that a department gives to a bill or to a decree or to any subject is not measured by the number of workers who have an address, a department or an entity. I think it's a bit of a general headline. I think I think that, because the EVE has a certain number of workers, the Basque Government, in this case, the department headed by Mrs Tapia, does not give importance to that project, I think it does not really conform to reality. And then, he has told us about other autonomous communities, he has put in particular the Autonomous Community of Balearics, which presides over it by a socialist, like Francina Armengol. Indeed, I agree with what Francina Armengol says, but it is also true that the situation of the Basque Government (the situation of neither budget nor industrial fabric nor anything) has nothing to do with the Balearic Government. Therefore, it also seems to me to make comparisons that, in fact... everything cannot be compared or at least not in such a general way. I can share with you, and I also share, that it is indeed an important debate and an urgent debate. We have often said in this Tribune that the subject of energy is an outstanding, very recurrent subject, of which we are all talking, but that, indeed, it is necessary to put on the table and, in this case, the Basque Parliament, bills so that all political parties can debate and contribute. And I also share with you that, in fact, the paper's work is going to be important. It will be critical and constructive from the side of EH Bildu, as you yourself have said, and let us hope that from that debate we will be able to reach the maximum possible agreement, because I do share with you that this law has to have important support, because in the end not only is the Basque Government involved, but other institutions, such as the municipalities, and all areas of society that are going to affect the passage of this law, such as the social sphere, industries, transport... And that is why I say that greater support from this House I believe will benefit from what we support here. Therefore, tell him that this issue was also addressed during the IX legislature, when the lehendakari Patxi López ruled. The previous legislature, as Mrs Tapia herself explained, comes to the bill, but it does not give time to be processed because there is an electoral call and, nothing else starts this legislature, the Basque Government, which leads Mr Urkullu, proposes as one of its priorities to bring this law to the House. It has complied with the legislative calendar and today we begin to work, after those appearances that, in fact, asked Podemos and EH Bildu, and that the government parties did not ask because they understood that they are clear about the energy project they want to put forward. And, apart from that, we knew and knew – we don't have to be very sharp about this – all the appearances that you were going to ask for and we knew that from there we would take note of the concerns, because we are already old acquaintances in what has to do with the request for appearances, in this and in other subjects. We knew they were going to flood us with them. They were more generous than we thought, but from there, don't worry, we take note and certainly many of the things that were said will be taken into account at least to enrich the debate of the different political parties. At the beginning of 2012, the draft was already available, as I say. Over the past parliamentary term, the issue of energy certification of buildings and the sustainability of Basque administrations is addressed through a decree, adopted in September, of the 15th, on energy sustainability of the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community, and the bill adopted last July 16. It means that there were outstanding issues and that the Government recognized it, and that is why steps have been taken. This law, as I have already said, we Socialists understand that it is necessary, possible and timely, taking into account the European mandates that we all know and that we all understand must be complied with, and the rules that already exist at the state level, because let us not forget that in the matter of energy the Spanish Government has a lot of competence, has a lot to say and also sets limits. Energy efficiency and efficiency is an obligation for governments, including the latter, and in the case of Euskadi, energy dependency data also oblige us to work on measures to ensure that efficiency and efficiency. Every day more is consumed, every day more is demanded, and the governments' bet on ending fossil fuels and betting on renewables is a reality. From that presentation we will also talk about everything that this implies, because we all recognize that there is greater consumption, that there is greater demand, but we have not finished agreeing on how to deal with this and, therefore, that presentation will put white on black. The law pursues the drive and promotion of energy savings and efficiency, not to mention the environmental component, through the implementation of renewable energy installations, which I believe we all agree on in this regard. The scope of the initial draft law was more specific; it was limited to Basque public administrations. But the Government understood that it needed to be expanded so as to be able to respond to areas such as the industrial, residential and transport sectors, as well as economic activities. Therefore, from the Socialist Group we understand that the outcome of this bill is more ambitious, Mr Otero, it is more complete and also more complex, as it makes it difficult to negotiate and makes it difficult to implement the bill that is adopted here. Because the government could have stayed in a condition only to the Basque public administration and it would have been much easier, and there you would obviously have come down to this rostrum to say that what little ambition that government had, that it only wanted a law to apply to the administration. So, I think yes, you can say it's more ambitious. The amendment to the whole that you bring us here today shows EH Bildu's concern about the final outcome of the project, and that is why I say to him that we will all work in the presentation – of course my group will do so – in order to achieve the greatest possible agreement. The Basque Socialists believe that the final adoption of the bill should be backed by as many votes as possible; it is a law that affects the citizens, businesses, administrations and the energy future of Euskadi. The time has come for us to start putting these axes that mark the future of Basque energy. After working on the bill, we understand that there will be significant progress; we could talk about, for example, that, on the issue of the company, we can talk about audits, energy measurement, obligation and energy performance; on the issue of individuals, greater access to information, an analysis of the energy behaviour of a house; and on the matter of vehicles, who contaminate more, pay more. You know perfectly well how complicated it is to cover the issue of transport in an autonomous community with an industrial fabric that forces transport to be necessary, and in that you will also work in the Basque Government. The Socialist Group will therefore, in conclusion, vote against its amendment in its entirety for a number of reasons. One, because we understand that the bill is necessary and essential, and to throw it back would be to start from scratch and waste time. Two, because the work presented through amendments by the groups supporting the Government completes and addresses issues that were not in the initial text, which we believe enriches the content of the bill and addresses issues that the opposition groups would obviously have brought through amendments. Three, because by Euskadi's energy data they force to address the energy issue as a topic that cannot have a longer delay. And four, although they could be many more, because the paper is an opportunity to reach agreements and achieve a consensual, ambitious law that is able to respond to the energy challenges of Euskadi. I'll keep the tone, Mr. Otero. I remain with the intention of EH Bildu to take advantage of the paper to work (I understand it from a critical but also constructive sense), and confident that at the time of voting the final bill will be adopted by – I do not know if by unanimity, I hope, that is the final goal – but by a large number of parliamentarians in this House. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u13	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Becerra, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u14	President, Chief, all the members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. We need a Basque law to save power and use better energy. We need a law. The law which is presented to us today is not good. It's not good, but it's a good opportunity to have that law. That's why our team from the start has had a constructive attitude, and that's why we've introduced 77 corrections to improve the law, and that's why we're not protecting the full correction that EH Collect has introduced. Why don't we support the amendment to the whole of EH Bildu? First of all, because Euskadi already needs a law, and that has been acknowledged by Mr Otero. It needs this law to be good, and precisely because it needs this law to be good, a constructive attitude is needed to make it possible. That is why our group has tabled 77 partial amendments, and that is why our group is not going to block the process, but will facilitate it. We need a constructive attitude, I said. We need a constructive attitude to promote energy saving, because this is a key issue for the future of Basque society. This is a key issue for our companies, because we need a more modern and sustainable industrial fabric that is efficient, and because we need our business fabric to reduce its energy costs, which between 2005 and 2015 have increased by 63%. To meet these energy costs: savings and efficiency. Energy saving for citizens is key because, if business energy expenditure has risen by 63%, that of families has risen by 110% between 2005 and 2015, and we need to avoid situations of energy poverty that now affect 150,000 people. Avoiding or palliing them, and improving family savings through savings and efficiency. If salaries are not increased, unless costs related to basic issues, such as energy, continue to be increased. We also need, and it is key, energy savings for our local administrations. Because our local governments need to balance their public accounts and can do so by reducing the energy costs that are now involved in public lighting, heating municipal buildings, or fuel costs for municipal fleets or urban transport. But besides, we need the local government. We need this local administration to increase and raise public awareness of the necessary energy transition. Mr Otero has referred to the threats to the well-being of our society; real threats, which exist. First, cheap fossil energy sources are running out, and second, we have Damocles's sword of climate change. The Basque climate change strategy says that by 2030 we have to cut our emissions by almost half. How do you do that? Well, the International Energy Agency itself says that in order to reduce our emissions there are two ways, two legs, exclusively: One, saving and efficiency and, two, promoting renewable energies. And this is one of the two legs: saving and energy efficiency. Therefore, in order to promote this energy saving and efficiency, the amendments that our group has tabled are essentially: (a) This law should be more comprehensive and effective, and should cover not only public administration but also economic sectors such as industry, transport, housing or services. (B) That it is a law that is truly applicable, and for this to happen, funding is needed for municipal administrations. Let it be a binding law, and for that a sanctioning regime is needed. Let it be an ambitious law, and for that we need concrete adaptation times and concrete improvement goals. And finally, a law is needed that involves citizens in this transition to a new energy model. We must therefore now remark that our intention is to obtain a just and extensive law by means of our reasonings. The wide, extended to all economic sectors, and a highly intentional law, both in time and end. And finally, an applicable law. And we need tools for that, both the whip-driver and the funding. And, after all, it's our last plan to start the energy transition we need to make in the Eukadin. And that's our main goal. Our goal, as I was saying, is to have a law that starts the energy transition that this country needs, and for that we need an agreement as broad as possible to have the best, most effective, most ambitious and most binding law. Under no circumstances will our group, under no circumstances, hinder this process, because what we are trying to do is to have at least the first step in the energy transition that this country needs in a few months' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u15	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. President, Chief, all the members of the legislature, good morning. I'll start with a confession, too. I am glad to receive the offer of Mr. Other, and I am convinced that with this will we shall be able to draw the law with the greatest agreement. But today, as you have said, we will deal with differences, and I will endeavour to answer this piece of patchwork you have made, because we have a kind of diagnosis, but because the answers we have about it differ. But, I think, if we can, we're going to have to get to a town concert in energy matters. Because the fight against climate change is one of the main motivations for action in the area of energy sustainability, and we must reduce, as you say, in the short term, dependence on fossil energy sources. And I would add: we must reduce dependence. Just like that. The debate is about beasts and baterako utziko dugu. We agree that our energy model is going through a turning point that must lay the foundations for sustainable growth in a decarbonised economy. And at this juncture public administrations must move to action and take a decisive step towards the transition of the energy model. This change in the energy model is an opportunity that we must not miss, and we must not and cannot focus solely on production. As Mr Becerra said, savings and efficiency are the other leg of this path. This transition will require action to change patterns and modes of consumption, to shift the use of fossil fuels and to integrate renewable energy. This change can and must occur while maintaining a reasonable energy channel for users and ensuring security of supply at all times. You take advantage of the process of a law, in principle intended solely for the savings and efficiency of public administrations, to claim the need for a law of transition in energy and climate change. Eta gu horrekin ez vuude teens. We think you confuse or pretend to confuse the whole with a part. Firstly, because we have been working on energy for many years in this country. Since the creation of the EVE, of the Basque Energy Agency, our model (with lights and shadows, like all) has improved substantially. Policies and social awareness have improved in a society that consumes energy intensively. But also, why not say it, it has improved, although you say otherwise, infinitely our mix, in which coal and oil do not even come from far, to the data of 35 years ago. Not to mention the commitment to combating climate change at all our administrative levels and in all our public policies. And secondly, because we do not see the need for that one law. At a time when, as you said, Europe is considering changing the established parameters, why we, who also do not have all the competences in terms of energy, why we must confine ourselves to a single law. Sincerely, Mr Otero, we believe that our energy strategy for Euskadi 2030 covers with this umbrella function, of central element, and allows us to be much more agile in setting criteria for intervention, analysis, drawing conclusions or even correcting what is not being done well enough, because the energy transition is not going to be a linear process. None of us have the crystal ball to clearly know where they're going to come from, what new technologies are going to develop. And that's why we think that policies that develop need to keep as many options open as possible. And, thanks to this strategy, we already have an integrated vision in line with Europe's current approaches. They say that this Law is totally inadequate and that, at most, it could be a sub-section of the Law that you say is needed. And that's right. Energy efficiency is a sub-section of our energy strategy, along with seven other areas of action that make up it. Why, as I say, a single law, when we already have a global vision? Why one and not two or three, or four, or 44 or those that are needed at every moment? We are making progress in the area that falls within our competence, also within our remit, without giving up further promotion of additional rules in the future. They treat it with some contempt, as if savings and efficiency were not important, when everyone knows that the energy that pollutes the least is the energy that is not used. You say that the text presented does not respond to the country's main energy challenges. No, it responds to one of them and, as I say, very important. No doubt one of the most important. They ask for a return to the government and ask for a lot of reports and put us in France as an example of a two-year reflection, analysis of citizen participation... And that's what I mean when I tell you that you do patchwork work, because you love to mention renewable energies in Germany, and as long as you talk about generation and you put coal aside. Today, France is an example of citizen participation in the effort they are going to make in renewables, but you have passed, not of dots, but you have not passed, when you speak of generation, and you have not spoken of the dependence they have in France, for example, on nuclear energy. And, as always, they omit why in this country renewable energies have had the development they have had, and what each has had to do with that development or that non-development. Ergo, if we listened to them, we would have to wait at least three years to bring another text. So, I don't know if this is urgent, it's not urgent, and they also say or suggest that this bill has been made into straw smoke, without analysis, without reflection, without debate... Look, the body of this law proposes measures to promote efficiency, which has a net positive effect on the areas it raises. And the measures are derived from the technical work and experience widely recognized throughout the world, except for you, the Basque Energy Agency and the Department of Industry. The touch, no. That, as far as I know, has not been involved in the drafting of the law. That the law refers only in its initial drafting to public administrations is also subject to criticism by it. But, you know?: Criticizing is easy, very easy. Eta kritika-kritika... guk etxeko lanak egin ditugu. For the difficult thing is to get to work and to contribute; exactly what we have done other groups less given to demagogy. And that is why this law will count, not only for public administrations, but for other key private sectors, such as industry, housing, services or transport. Therefore, another argument that falls from your amendment. Finally, you were talking about the fact that the law suffers from different structural shortcomings, of which four stand out, to which I will try to answer briefly. First of all, you speak of the absence of participation, when this law, as in its day the 3E2030 strategy, has had its corresponding processes of participation; and, in the case of the latter, it was not even mandatory. But I'm saying that whoever the defendants don't want to participate is not Mrs. Tapia's fault, is it? Either it seems to them that the law is correct, or it seems to them that it does not include them, or they do not want to participate. I have the feeling, in any case, that participation has recently been called upon rather than as an instrument at the service of society, as an instrument to improve laws or even coexistence, I have the feeling that we have recently used it a lot as a mantra to try to pursue by other means what does not give us the electoral results. And with regard to giving the voice in the development of the law to interested individuals or groups, you also had the tool of partial amendment. And those who seek to make sincere progress in this area have done so. Because whoever seeks the social benefit and advancement of society works the agreement and flees from maximalisms. And there will be citizen participation in the development of this law, there will be. With which, another argument falls. Secondly, they speak of a lack of ambition in the objectives. Here we don't match in the background or in the form. He says that the percentage of energy consumed by administrations is minimal, and that is not the case. Contrary to what you say in your amendment, a substantial part of the energy that the Basque Government employs today is renewable, and more and more administrations are opting for these energies. You say that the objectives are below what Europe stipulates, but it ignores that Europe personalises its objectives for the different states, and that since we are not lucky enough to have our own state and our social, industrial and economic reality is substantially different in many areas from that of the state in which we live today, we have made an adaptation of the objectives in the 3E2030 and we propose to adapt to it. With which, another argument, in my opinion, falls. Thirdly, funding or, rather, its absence. This issue has also been raised through partial amendments, and fully coincides with our own concerns. Therefore, we will look for ways to facilitate access to finance for those municipalities that need it, without losing sight of the fact that we are proposing investments, not spending, which involve improvements in current spending almost immediately (and what to say in the medium and long term), which will contribute very positively in the day-to-day not only of the municipalities but of the municipalities. And finally, you complain about the lack of measures, of a sanctioning regime, of executive measures. You complain that there are no measures for violators or for those who do not comply with the law. But have you realized that this law was addressed only to public administrations? Do you doubt the seriousness and rigour of the various administrations? Do you doubt the control capacity of the plenary of the municipalities, the control capacity of the General Councils to the various parliaments? To us, honestly, this measure seemed out of place, but it must obviously be a problem of confidence. We rely on the control capacity of the General Councils and the municipal plenary. But, in any case, we have returned to do our duties and as through the partial amendments we will incorporate the private world into the object of the law, we will also try to include the corresponding sanctioning regime, although our main scenario of work remains that based on awareness and training. Otherwise it is difficult to change the parameters to which we aspire, if we really aspire to an energy transition in the line we comment on. So, you see: what they missed is already there, and what they missed, too. I sincerely – and after hearing your words, more – hope that, save this process today, you will put aside the messages for the gallery and participate in the improvement of this law, so that we can all write it in the best possible way. Because even if it is only a derivative of our energy strategy, it is very important in the direction that we as a people must take, if we really believe that the coming energy transition puts us at a crossroads. He said before that the energy that is not used is the one that pollutes the least. There's something like this going on here. The amendments in their entirety which pollute a debate the least are those which are not tabled. That is why we will vote not for yours today, but we will not consider it oil, but gas of kilometre 0. And we will continue to try, as I say, to reach the greatest consensus with you and the rest of the groups. Thank you, Mrs. Legs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u17	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing on the answers, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u18	What a sluggish man, Mr. Grajales, with the zero kilometre gas. That's where he hit me. We'll talk some more about the gas, if you give me time. I don't know, because there are a lot of things. Mrs Red, with the 66 workers of the EVE and so on, there has also been a misunderstanding. What I want to say is that if this matter is a priority for this community, what I understand is that we must tend to push and make a public, collective, etcetera, etcetera solution. I mean: nowadays, one of the great elephants in the cacharreria is that the energy is in the hands of companies, usually very large companies, which have a lot of power, which Minister Soria – when he had to resign – acknowledged that they sent him the written decrees. So what we are saying is that all the steps that are being taken towards the publication of energy and public control of energy, and that are less market-oriented, are important, because the market is going to be giving you some signals, usually quite short-term, and the needs we have, the giant challenges we have, with issues such as climate change, are challenges in the medium or long term, although they are already beginning to be short-term. So that's where it's going. In this sense, a strong EVE, an EVE that has, not 66 workers, but hundreds or thousands of workers, public energy agencies, etc., etc. That's where it's going. You said the law is possible and timely. We say and insist that it is insufficient. It's almost going to get affected by that 3 per cent. Here is happening, on the part of the rest of the groups, one of the problems that I was most afraid of, which is that, once given the pass to how things have been done, we still involve it more. It seems that more is being achieved, it seems to be a great advance and such, when in reality we all know sincerely that overall it is not an advance. That's why we said we have more than two years of legislature and the climate change law has to come. I think we're in time to return the law, to do things as I understand what needs to be done, and then come up with the two joint laws at the end of the legislature. But, well, it's not his plan. You win; you're more. We can buruz. I have recognized that a law is obviously needed. And you think so too, we share a lot of things. But, of course, the problem is that this is not the law and this is not the only area to be addressed by the law. And we have this problem: that this government, after it presented nothing in the last legislature, no law on energy (in the previous legislature the only law on energy that was presented was the anti-fracking law, which came from the street), we now move, after two legislatures, to a law that affects only 3% of consumption and some brushing around. So you are so constructive and you have tabled 77 amendments; we 128, which are more constructive. I mean, it's not about that, it's not about that. It is a matter of deciding, in an amendment to the whole, whether it is the law that is needed or the law that is not needed. And I insist that it is urgent to make the debate of the whole, because you have mentioned something about the International Energy Agency. In his 2017 "outlook" published, not long ago... what he's telling us is that BAU policies, Business as usual ("business as usual"), directly kill us all. New politics scenario, "the scene of new policies", which I think is where this law goes a little bit, i.e. in making some improvement. And it says it clearly: "It is insufficient for climate change objectives". What we need are much more radical policies, in fact, that go further into the root of the problem. And that's where this law isn't coming in, which is why we have problems with this. Antzerakoa diagnosis, yellow grajales. Bai age ez; badago part beat not nik you had ez dugula, eta bai. Nik isaten doubt that we are looking at the flies and we have elephants in the room, obviously one of the problems, one of the biggest problems in energy, is that it decides Madrid, is that the general laws take them out Madrid and the infrastructures decides Madrid. And all the time we are in the same; we cannot make a sovereign energy policy that leads to energy sovereignty, of course. We agree on that. What I don't agree with is how much you say has improved the situation. You say the EVE is from 82, the oil in the mix. But it is not just a problem of relative values; it is a problem of absolute values, and I said it before. That is, we consume today, in the last year, the year that we have consumed the most oil in the history of this country, the most. Of course, I want to say that geology does not understand so much of mixes; it understands of reservations, which exist and are ending. So, if last year was the year we consumed the most, it's when we have the most problems with sustainability. But not only that, but the EVE has another major problem, in my view, which, in line with the mentality of this government, has focused too much on the reversal of gas and is something that is not questioned here, the issue of gas. And, in fact, we still consider it a positive thing. And the strategies, also that of 2011, approved by the López Government, said that what was desirable was and the goal was to increase the consumption of gas up to 49% and to reduce the consumption of oil up to 36%. Well, look, they say that successive governments have taken letters on the matter, as it turns out that we are in 47% of final oil consumption and 32% of gas. Screen. That is, of the plan that was made in 2011 – and we are in 2018 – is that reality doesn't coincide in almost anything with the plans. The development of renewables the same, and everything goes a bit there. So, it's a little difficult. What I am asking here – and I see that it is not going to be done – is to make a sincere debate. That's why I say it's not so much to criticize, and it's far from demagogying what I'm trying to do. Here, when you come and you say "it's that you talk to the gallery"... And who doesn't speak for the gallery? Didn't Arantxa talk to the gallery, too? Well, he points out what she thinks is important, and what he doesn't, because he doesn't. And all the same. Here for the gallery we all talk. Another thing is demagogy. Because for me demagogic, and in this case it's not your department, it's going to Germany, to the COP I don't know how many, and saying that Euskadi is a small emitter of greenhouse gases: Elena Moreno. Because it emits only 0.5% of the European Union. Of course, we compare it with the population and it turns out that we are not 0.5%; it turns out that we are 0.4% of the European population. Of course, are we a small emitter or are we a big emitter? We are a big issuer, because what matters is per capita and per capita we are a big issuer, bigger than Spain, bigger than Italy, bigger than France. We are a big issuer, like a company with an industrial weight in GDP of 24 % (or I don't know where it goes). We're a big emitter and we're cheating. We cheat, because we say: zero oil policy by 2050, which is going to be very difficult. But immediately afterwards we say: gas policy 2100. And this is where I get nervous, because it turns out that the demagogue is me. Let's see, and this is that if I don't explain it, it's just, I think it's... Urkullu, you say you're a gasman, I think you should pay attention, a lot of attention to this. The remaining gas resources in the world. Among four countries, oil has geopolitical problems, among four countries – Iran, Russia, Qatar and Turkmenistan – they have 57.7% of the world's gas reserves, and among 12 countries they have 83; the rest of the world, 194 countries, have less gas than Iran or Russia. Geopolitical dependency canvas, geopolitical dependency canvas. But not only that, but according to British Petroleum's Statistical Review, we have today's gas for consumption for 51 years, for 51 years. 51, plus 15 to launch the plan, how many are there? Sixty-six? And we're gonna be using gas until the year 2100? And I'm the demagogue? Well, I think we're wrong. But it's even worse; it's even worse. Because gas consumption has increased to 2.5% over the past 25 years, and according to British Petroleum (which is supposed to be one of the most reliable statistics), it will continue to increase to 2%. It is not going to increase here, it is going to increase here: Europe is going to lower consumption and it is going to increase a lot elsewhere. With this, the gas reserves remain, of 51 years that is supposed to exist now, remain between 32-35, depending on a little something. 32-35. And we're talking about gas policies until the year 2100? No, no, we're tying her, we're tying her. I mean, of course we're going to have to rely on gas, like 32 or 36 years after the EVE was created, we still depend on 47 % of the oil. If we already know that, and that's gonna be inevitable. Another thing is to say: "pro policies and to increase gas consumption are better". And that's what you're saying and the law doesn't mess with anything, it doesn't mess with anything, with all this. And of course, demagogy I don't know, but cheating on the lonely, we get a few. I, we will continue to discuss the amendments, and I see that this, the amendment as a whole, is not going to come out, but I believe that we are stealing, stealing from society the profound debate of the profound and urgent changes that we have to make. The IPCC will draw up its report in autumn and say that the situation is critical – it has already filtered it out – and the situation is critical and people need to be told about it. You can't tell him that we are now energy sustainable because we have finally got a law that puts in place I don't know how many and then others can come...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u19	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u20	I think it takes a little more time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u21	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing on the second round of answers, Basque Socialists, Mrs. Rojo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u22	Mr. Otero, and you see, I was here today as a conciliator... I measured the tone, I measured everything. It's just that you say a few things, Mr. Otero. Look, for starters, nothing has been stolen from society, nothing. What happens is that you – when you are interested – want to open a participatory process, as if instead of a government, we were an assembly. No, I don't. It is that the way to manage laws, to do them, to work with departments is not to convene an assembly in which everyone thinks, it takes us 80 years, but then we are the same ones that we say is urgent. It just doesn't fit one thing with the other. And you started by saying that it was a priority, what happens is that you understood that you had to have a public, collective push – something you said – and then I say to you: is it a priority or is it not a priority? And while we make those assemblies with that many people and ask everyone not to steal the participation of society, what do we do? Don't we have law? And then he says, "The oil data... is that it's when the most has been consumed..., we have to end the consumption of fossil fuels..., but at the same time we don't want gas, because all of them have gas and we don't have gas...", and between stopping oil consumption and reaching renewables, what do we do? Blow? Blow, we use a bellows, we take candles... What do we do? It's just that it takes energy, that's why it's called energy transition, to go from here to here you have to go through something in the middle. And you – and I have told you a lot of times and today I didn't want to tell you, because I was coming very conciliatory – have blocked and boycotted many measures in the middle (between oil and gas) for a lot of years in this Parliament. That maybe renewable energy data could be other, and you know it. And it brings here the energy strategy adopted by the Government of López, an energy strategy adopted unanimously, in which all political parties proposed what they understood in the form of political resolutions and which was praised by all political groups. Now, it's that it's loose, it's that this is what's holding... And you ask: is it the law that is needed? I would ask you: Is the law necessary? Is it necessary? Is that a priority? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, And then why do you want to push her back? Let us use the paper, which you spoke to us in your first speech, to work among all and, in a constructive way, to be able to pose, negotiate and agree on the path Euskadi has to follow on the energy issue. Because, even if you don't like it, I already know you don't, and maybe I don't, the competition that Spain has in energy matters is what it is. Therefore, we cannot invent a Basque legal order outside the general legal order, and you know it. That we'd rather it be otherwise? But it's who it is. That's why we have to build laws within what we can do. It decides Madrid in what it has to decide Madrid, but we will make a law within our own competences to reach the best possible scenario. And you spoke of the need to make a sincere analysis; more than sincere, objective. We must make an objective analysis, which I believe is the one done by the government, because it is the one that has the data, the one that has the emission data, the one that has the data on what the transport of goods means, which means the expenditure and demand of the industries... It's not sincere, it's objective. This is not about lying or telling the truth, but about doing policy on the basis of concrete data, because that is what we have to answer to. That's what I understand. And I could tell you a lot of things, but, by defending one of the departments that the socialists are carrying... I was saying a few statements that Mrs Elena Moreno, Vice-Councillor for the Environment, had made at one of the summits that talked about greenhouse gas emissions. And I'm done, Madam President. It's just that it's very good that it's playing to compare with per capita income today, it's very good. No, of course, we're more... We broadcast... Because of course, it depends on who we compare to. Now! But it's that EH Bildu uses the comparison, depending on which topic. So, when others have said that we have to compare with regions, because Euskadi is what it is, at other times EH Bildu and other political forces are interested in comparing themselves with countries, states... because it matters. Either here we choose the same measuring rod for comparisons always, or we never do. Today he has used the per capita income because it is what interests him to get the sum or the rest of what he means. Therefore, I conclude here: neither traps – because there are no traps – nor have anyone been robbed of anything – because you are going to have the opportunity to debate, and you represent a part of Basque society, which is the one that voted for you – nor lack of sincerity, nor anything. Here there is objectivity, concrete data, desire for a necessary, priority and urgent law, but to see if in the path that of the transition we are able not to boycott everything that comes out in the middle.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u23	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u24	I, Mrs Red, do believe in citizen participatory processes, and also assemblies, of course. And if we can do a participatory process for the new Statute, and your group shares it, we can also do so for the climate change law that will promote the department where you are. But, well, that's not the point right now. I think Mr. Oster did the correct diagnosis. But the solution you propose is incorrect. You said this isn't the law we need. We need a law to make the entire energy transition. Yes, but there are two columns for the power transition. One to encourage energy saving, the other to develop retractable energy. Both of them. Whose tools are available to re-productive energy development? Most of them are in the hands of the state. The powers to develop renewables, most of them are in the hands of the State. Renewable premiums, user rights, plant authorizations, self-consumption... We have no competence to promote as we would like renewable energy. So what's the situation we have? That on the other side of the energy transition – which is savings and efficiency – we do have competences. Let's use them. In that process comes this law, and it is an insufficient law, but it is the one we have. Right now it's the one we've got. We are not in the Government, we are not proposing the legislative timetable. And, therefore, it seems to me hasty to talk about blank checks, because we are at the beginning of processing. If we take the amendments that have already been made right now, we would have to have all administrations inventory their consumption in six months' time. In one year they have to have all the administrations energy performance plans; in two years they have to have all the energy audits done. In five years all buildings in the country have to have their energy efficiency certificates, and in eight years you have to stop using diesel in heating, that is, in uses, let's say, that are not for transportation. Well, you've talked about the peak of dependence on oil. We have a step there to put an end to the peak of dependence on oil. It can be improved, and the ideal is that, during the process of the law, with its amendments and with those of all groups, we can do so. He said the law isn't ambitious. And I agree that it can be more ambitious. But, of course, he spoke of the Balearic Government. He talked about the socialist councilwoman. Do you know who is the director of energy and climate change in the Balearic Government? Joan Groizard of the Partico EQUO, of the Green Party EQUO. There's the ambition. Of course, we cannot intend to compare the two governments that are ideologically different. What have Basque governments historically done for energy savings and efficiency? Well, very little. But the situation we have is: do we expect another two or four years? The IPCC has made it clear: we have to act now. Therefore, you have said: "This law is not a great advance." No, but it's a breakthrough. It's a breakthrough and what we can't do is give contradictory messages. We need this advance. It's not enough, but we need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u25	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. And, Monsieur Grivores, Eubertarian patriots, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u26	Yes, thank you very much again, Mr. President. Otero jauna, I insist that you deliberately pretend to confuse the part with the whole. You also forget that, generally, when questions arise in the "or everything or nothing" environment, they often lead inexorably to nothing. Let's hope this isn't the case. I am convinced that in the paper we will all be able to do our best to bring out this law, with the maximum support. But you insist or pretend that this law becomes a single law that brings together the whole Basque fight against climate change, as if the fight against climate change were to begin now or the energy transition was to begin now. And in this country, we have been fighting climate change for many years, as I said, with lights and shadows, as in Germany, as in France, as in all the countries that you usually name for hedges. But in this country many years ago we started with sustainable development strategies, with modifications of the DOTs, with master plans for sustainable mobility, with master plans for housing, with environmental framework programmes, with the Mugarri Plan in Araba, with the Bizkaia 21 Programme in Bizkaia, with the Local Agenda 21 in all municipalities... Finally, that this has not begun today, that we have devoted ourselves to this, I believe that almost all the parties that we have representation in this House. You say geology doesn't understand mixes. It's true, but society and companies don't want to live without energy. I have told you: this society consumes intensively, and that is what we have to put in front of the transition. I have told you before: this change can and must occur while maintaining a reasonable cost of energy for users and ensuring security of supply at all times. And we also believe that policies on the generation mix need to keep all options open while new technologies reach the necessary maturity that they do not yet have. On the other hand and to conclude, I know that the EVE has not been criticized in its amendment to the whole and that, therefore, today perhaps it did not touch to talk about this, but as has been mentioned several times and you have mentioned it several times with insistence, and also insists, that error, that the EVE seems to be dedicated only to gas or that it only intends to obtain gas of kilometre 0 in Armentia, I will tell you: look, the EVE, in relation to renewable energies, is dedicated to photovoltaics, biomass, wind, geothermals and oceanics. In relation to energy efficiency, it promotes actions to improve energy efficiency. It will shortly publish calls for aid for energy efficiency in industry, in industrial polygons, in tertiary sector and in the local public administration sector. In the residential and tertiary sector, energy certification of buildings, aid to promote energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy in public facilities and buildings, etc. In the transport sector, comprehensive plan of electric mobility, Itsasgas, participation in Ibil, the development of infrastructures of public recharge in collaboration with the municipalities, aids in investments of transport and efficient mobility... And in relation to the digitization of energy, Bidelek 4.0 and Basque Energy Bidea. I believe that they already have work, beyond gas, which is also necessary. I hope that we will see each other in the presentation, with this good disposition, and in the meantime I wish you all a good day. I generate art.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u27	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the bill when it returns. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 18; the opposites, 47; white, 0; abstain, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u28	So it doesn't come back to fun, the bill of law. Next, is the word of Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, representing the Basque Potula.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on energy sustainability for the Basque Autonomous Community, which aims to establish the regulatory pillars of energy sustainability in the area of Basque administrations, comes to this House because we have a compliance that must be reflected in the legislation of the Basque Autonomous Community, which is the European Directive 31/2010 on the energy efficiency of buildings, which requires from 31 December 2020 that buildings that are built must be of almost zero energy consumption, being mandatory for buildings of the administrations from 31 December 2018. This is the obligation. This is the objective, this is the scope. Why? Because there was an obligation to comply with a European directive. Now they're making up loas. This was the scope, the objective, and there we are. We share many of Mr Otero's arguments. We said this in the presentation of the project: a great opportunity has been missed, making a bill, not only for the buildings of the Basque administrations and for the vehicles. A bill to promote renewable energy and energy saving and efficiency in the Basque Country. And we say promotion of renewable energies. A debate that this Government does not want, but did not want the previous one, nor the previous one. He does not want that debate, and that is why it is not reflected in any rule of this Government. A bill, in which we are discussing an amendment to the whole. But this bill has another amendment to the whole, because if we go to article 135, it says that it will be amendments of the whole that postulate its return to the Government or that propose an alternative text to the Government. The amendments tabled by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist Group, in fact (I don't know if by law; it seems not, because the legal services have not made any mention), but in fact, it is an amendment to the whole. A bill that enters Parliament, 28 articles, three additional provisions and two final provisions. The amendments of the Basque Nationalist and Socialist Group amend the explanatory statement, the scope of the application of the law. It goes from 28 articles to 68, three additional provisions, five final provisions. Mrs Red, if this is a valid, classic procedure of a bill, let God come and see it; I have been here for a few years and I have never seen it before. And all this so that this House is excluded from the application of this law, because in addition to bringing these amendments, what has brought us is the presentation made. He's calling us to the paper. They've done it! But tell it all, it's done. What paper are you talking about? What paper are you talking about, the one you've already made? They made the presentation, then the amendments and then we come here. That's what we're on. What are you guys doing? Look, and another thing the law says, this Parliament is excluded from the energy efficiency law...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u30	López de Ocariz andrea, that's an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u31	This House is not going to take energy efficiency measures...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u32	López de Ocariz andrea, medez, ba medez. Mrs. Lopez de Ocarariz, do you hear me? Mrs. Lopez de Ocarariz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u33	The house of laws, listen. But what is this?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u34	López de Ocariz andrea, medez, which is an explanation of vote...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u35	If you speak to me in Spanish, I understand you. He's talking to me in Basque and I don't understand him.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u36	That is an explanation of vote. That is an explanation of vote, that does not enter the groups. Mesedez, who had not told you anything, mesedez, which is an explanation of vote. Then explain the vote, but nothing else, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u37	That's why we're... We abstained because, indeed, by sharing that it is mandatory to make this law, the amendment to the whole EH Bildu group has a lot of common sense and we share many of its arguments. But I tell you that, in addition to that amendment, there is another. It will seem good or not to you what I have said, but there is another law that you have said no, but in fact there is and there it is, and it will not seem to you, but that a law goes from 28 articles to 68 because it is not the most normal thing, right?, I understand, I understand. And I tell you, this House is excluded, it is excluded that this law is applied to it. Isn't this a public administration building where we draft laws? What is the argument for this House not to have that application? Neither the Ararteko nor the Basque Court of Auditors. Aren't they buildings of the Basque Public Administration? Aren't they? This House does need some energy efficiency measures, quite a few energy efficiency measures. And here we are, hey, here we are, and we don't get colored... I mean, nothing's wrong with us, it's just amazing, ladies and gentlemen, amazing. Look, they said we're going to set the framework we're going to apply, ambitious, whether we're ambitious or not. I am going to refer you to a reply that the Counsellor gave us in her day, when we told her that we were not going to meet the objectives, the objectives that have been agreed in Paris, the objectives that we have as an Administration...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u38	Amaitu, coedez, López de Ocariz andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u39	Yes, ma'am, you'll allow me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u40	Please finish. Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u41	And he said, of course, we don't have to meet the goals. It is the member states that meet the objectives, not us. We're appendages. That is, that the whole independenceist spirit has been loaded: it has been loaded in a minute, really. And to say, also the Government of Spain, Mr Otero, the Government of Spain is drafting a law on climate change and energy transition, has also made a committee of experts, has also made a prior public presentation to gather the criterion, because it is basic. Not here; here is the model they impose on us, Mr Otero. We'll drink it or nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u42	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Third point in theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the Leire Pindo Bustante EHG, about the idea of social Security and pensions in order to manage them well. "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group together about the public pensioning system." The next round of the proposed team, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Pindo, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u43	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. About 15 days ago, we were engaged in an interpolating the Chief Sub-Authon on the jurisdiction of Social Security, by the necessity of transferring it, and the construction of its own eupscal system. The chief physician's answer was moderate, a reply made in the name of the coalition. And in this answer, and that the subject is of importance, we believe that this legislature must have a clear attitude about this matter. Last week the pensioners gave us a huge sense of dignity in the streets. The streets of our capitals were filled with defence of their rights, defending our rights. Because the struggle for decent pensions is not only the pensioners, but it belongs to all of us. This is the situation he needs answers. Today's pensioners, as we all know, want answers, want measurements, even those who still see the pension far away. Because we need a system of social security, a system that supports worthy public pensions, a system that guarantees worthy conditions of life. Last week the pensioners of this country went out massively to defend their right to a decent pension; their right and our right as well. They went out to defend the rights of all, because today it is they, but tomorrow we will be others who will receive a pension, or at least we aspire to it. And we want them to be public pensions, we want them to be decent pensions, as they shouted on the streets of our major cities. They went out on the street for pensions, yes, but along with this struggle they told us many other things. They told us about the precarious jobs of their sons and daughters, about unemployment, which have made pensions a main livelihood for many families in our country. They were telling us about their goat because of the pharmaceutical replenishment and all those medicines that have been left out of the system and that they have to pay. And they were also telling us about their discomfort, about a citizen's discomfort with the rising energy prices, for example, which prompt many pensioners to choose between warming up and eating. That's what they used to say on the streets. And in the face of a pernicious rise of 0.25, which is insulting, pensioners and pensioners defend public and dignified pensions. "Pensions are a right, not a charity," they shouted the other day on the streets, and EH Bildu shared that claim, without compromise. Because as I said 15 days ago here, we are talking about a capital issue, a capital issue for any society that aspires to have a state of developed well-being, that aspires to guarantee a life worthy of its citizenship throughout its life. And in sight, you can't wait any longer. From EH Bildu it is not the first time that we have brought the issue of pensions and the transfer of social security to this House. We've already done it in the last legislature, and in this one too. There are already several initiatives on the subject that we have brought from EH Bildu, because it is something that worries us and it is something that concerns us. Because in this ongoing work to vertebrate a comprehensive and own social protection system, Social Security and, therefore, pension management is a fundamental issue. We've got it all figured out. This is a fundamental subject for us, and we have clearly to speak in this matter, that we must look for agreements. Our attitude is clear and known. We need our own Euscal system, and that's the way we're on it. We must make a step on this road, and therefore this initiative which we bring to-day is not the only one which has been introduced, because we know in this way that society needs answers until we come to the end. Reality is out there in the street. In Biscay, in Gipuzia and Araban 5470,000 pensions, although the average pension was 1,100 euros, 192000 pensioners don't pay more than minimum wage. Unfortunately, most of them are women. How can it be a pension between pensions of euscals less than 6k 700 euros? Thus they are by no means supported by worthy conditions of life, and thus they are by no means connected and erecting a more just society. If this be the case, then the insignificant ascents of 0.525, which is expected for many years in the system of state, and the permanence factors which will enter in force next year, will be brought down in a remarkable manner the purchase capacity of pensions. After all, this system leads us to become poor people who have pensioned at present, and we don't want it to be for the euscal society. Look, in the face of massive protests by the pensioners, the response of the People's Party has been to say that the pensioners have not been the sector most affected by the crisis, even that they have gained some purchasing power. Responses, in my humble opinion, to the defensive, of a party that amended the Pensions Act in 2013 without consensus, without consensus. The Monitoring Committee on the Toledo Pact, under the chairmanship of Mrs Villalobos, has been stuck for a long time, without giving any answer to a vital question. And, meanwhile, the state system, ladies and gentlemen, makes waters. A system which has been devoted to squandering through reforms, only aimed at reducing expenditure, i.e. reducing pensions, while, on the other hand, with its labour reforms, it has drowned income, the result of increasingly low contributions, as a result of a precarious labour market and to imputing to the system expenses for flat rates or other star measures, which no one has yet proved to generate quality employment. A state system that has closed in 2017 with more than 18 billion euros in deficit, with a balance in the reserve fund of just 8 billion euros, with a debt of almost 27.5 billion euros, with more than 9 million pensioners, of which almost five receive pensions below the interprofessional minimum wage. In short, a system that needs urgent changes. And those changes, unfortunately, cannot be decided in this House. The state controls as a whole the established pension system, as the data shows, in a system of Sociable security that is drowned. That's the reality we have. The system of Spain not only supports the dignity of all pensioners, but it has not, at present, supported by the constancy of its own nature. And, in view of this situation, 38 years later, we still have not transferred the competences on social security provided for in the Statute of Gernika. 38 years later, here we continue, without any of the competences and under an insufficient state system. Skills that would equip our social protection system with tools to respond to Basque citizenship in a better way, in a more global way. Competencies that we must assume without delay. Powers that have been refused to transfer from successive state governments, bringing up arguments built ad hoc, using the deficit of the system in our autonomous community as an excuse – when it is known that the deficit is of the state system itself – or invoking the one-size-fits-all box as if it were the Holy Grail. It seems now that the Basque Socialist Party is advocating transfer; we know that it is not the same as us, and I would dare say that it is not the same as the Basque Nationalist Party. I would like to know, in this case, what the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party says about this, because it has been in Moncloa for many years and has consistently refused to transfer social security. From Euskal Herria Bildu we firmly believe that assuming the competences on Social Security would be a great step for the well-being of Basque citizens, but we have no doubt that it is a step towards a system of our own, which is our final bet. Between those who defend our own system of state and euscal, of course there are differences. But is there not in this legislature a right to decide a majority? Now, in this matter, we demand the right of defending this people and the legislature, and therefore the majority of this legislature having a choice to complete its own tenet system. Isn't this democracy? Is there anything more democratic? Each of us will make his choice, ours is clear, our own euscal pension system. When we collect the Basque People, it is clear that the eating things (as some say) which are common to food, are a direct and indispensable relation to the independence which is to be established by so many public policies. We have many instances, and we have seen in the last week what has happened about the public health and the right of a free man at Navarro. For this reason independence is important to encourage public services to the benefit of society. Therefore we think it essential to leave the door of our own lodging-house system open, in order that we may be able to answer here, and not subject ourselves to the will and necessity of the state forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u45	Yes, good morning. From our coalition, Elkarrekin We can, today we also bring an initiative, a non-law proposal, whose objective was and is that the Basque Parliament clearly stand in favour of a series of reforms that guarantee a public pension system based on solidarity between generations, between territories, and that is the pillar of a society with decent living conditions. In other words, we propose concrete measures to ensure decent public pensions. And we have come to an agreement with a compromise amendment that we believe will enable this in a powerful way. We know that the Government of the People's Party in Madrid will ignore these proposals. We do not expect anything else from the main one responsible for the weakening of our public pension system. We expect no less from a People's Party that responds with insults and contempt to all those pensioners who are mobilizing in defense of our public pensions. But, beyond the popular party's consistent response, what we wanted today with this initiative is for the Basque Parliament to position itself as the majority expression of Basque society in favour of a series of measures that clearly indicate the direction to be taken to defeat the attack that our public system is suffering. An attack by private interests seeking to devalue public pensions for a long time to expand the market for private capitalization pensions. Our aim is therefore to achieve a public and explicit commitment by this Parliament to public pensions in the face of the neoliberal offensive which aims to extend private pensions at the expense of the public. It is about positioning ourselves in favour of a model of solidarity distribution, organized from the public. The political reforms carried out in recent years, both in labour regulations and directly in relation to our public pension system, have as one of their objectives to turn this pension system into a racist system, with the aim that people need to complete pensions in order to have a decent retirement. To supplement pensions with private products that are in charge of recommending to us some ministers with more cost than back. Some leader of the People's Party who has already been mentioned goes further and recommends that we save two eurillos a month for our pension, after saying, moreover, that there are pensioners who are more years living from the pension than from their work. There are people who, in addition to being right-wing, are genuine entrepreneurs. That model that they are trying to impose on us is the model driven by international organizations at the service of capital, the most openly neoliberal model that attempts to import our pensions and that has already been imposed in some countries even on blood and fire. From the parties of our coalition – from EQUO, from Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita and from Podemos – we have made clear the main measures necessary to defeat and overthrow that model, which is driven above all by the People's Party, but which it did not face, unfortunately, either from the last socialist government that existed in the state. But today we do not come to recriminate the policies, in our opinion, erratic, of that last socialist government, because we believe that we are in time to turn this attack around and guarantee a dignified, sufficient and supportive pension system, and our group will carry out this fight with all those who are willing to do it, without any sectarianism. We share the concern about the state of the public pension system, but we do not accept the thesis that the public system is not going to be enough to cover pensions and that we must therefore strengthen complementary private capitalisation systems. We do not accept it, because we believe that this is the goal – although unconfident – of some. But we think it's avoidable and we're going to avoid it. Nor do we accept that the problem of the deficit of the system is due to the population pyramid. The population pyramid influences, but it is not the one that is causing the system to be in deficit right now. That is another of the great lies that they want us to swallow to implement various measures, including the delay in retirement age. The problem, in our view, is essentially contributions, not so much the number of contributors versus pensioners; the problem is a lack of economic income to the system. In a country, in addition, where wealth continues to be generated and where some take it hot for their home, for Switzerland or for Panama. For us, therefore, the public pension system, in addition to being necessary, is viable if there is political will to do so. We will not deny from our coalition that the problems of the public pension system are influenced by high unemployment, because it is influenced, and so much. But, above all, we believe that low contributions also influence. And it has been, above all, the reforms carried out in recent years that have contributed precisely to the deliberate weakening of it. And I stress "intentionally": labor reforms and the reform of the pension system itself have made this possible. The People's Party Government has implemented these measures to weaken the system, rather than implementing measures that can enhance it. Many of them are included in the transaction we agreed today. Following the 2010 labour reform, it was the even more virulent reform of the Rajoy government of 2012 that brought, in a special way, not only high levels of unemployment, but low wages, massive job insecurity and abusive recruitment, contributing decisively to the social security deficit. The contributions, it is true, do not currently cover expenditure, and the Government, instead of dealing with the situation by listening to the proposals of the left and of the trade unions to strengthen the public system, has been systematically resorting to the reserve fund, until it is exhausted and almost exhausted. To this end, they have not hesitated to make legislative reforms allowing it to use this reserve fund beyond the 3% previously established. We must shield the reserve fund of the People's Party's claws, which uses it in order not to face the necessary changes that guarantee the sufficiency of the system. Of course I do, Mr. Damborenea. Alongside this, and also to avoid the necessary changes that are included in the initiative that we will adopt today, they did not hesitate to approve a reform of the pension system, passing – as I said in this rostrum on one occasion – the Toledo Pact for the Arc of Triumph. A reform, Law 23/2013, regulating the Sustainability Factor and the Pension Revaluation Index, made expressly to ensure that pensions have poor increases, which makes them lose purchasing power year after year, thus making them insufficient for the sustainability of the lives of pensioners. In addition, this was done under the demagogic argument that this would ensure the sustainability of the system and guarantee pension increases. What in practice is being the famous and infamous 0.25. A 0.25 which is being strongly answered on the street by the pensioners, who know perfectly well that the only thing that has meant has been a general impoverishment of pensions. But also the decline in social security resources has contributed to some government measures in the form of advantages for the business community. Bonuses on quotations, flat rates, etc. Measures that we believe must be eliminated. Measures that are sold politically as recruitment aid, but whose resources curiously do not come out of the budgets, but precisely from the weakening of the pension system. We must therefore, in our view, put an end to these gifts to the companies in charge of the system. In addition, from our group, we also propose that the administrative costs of social security should be financed directly from the general budgets of the State. This would free up a significant amount of money from the system that currently covers these expenses. And we would include some more measures, which are not included in the final transaction, because they are not shared by the groups with which we have agreed. But I'm going to mention them, because we think they're positive. We think we need to focus on income. We believe that the maximum contribution bases should be dismantled. This measure would allow 8 billion a year to enter the social security system and would provide a greater degree of solidarity to the system. And, of course, we are in favour of the total elimination of tax relief measures to the hiring of private pension schemes. But above all we think – and this is what this Parliament is going to approve today – that we must have a decisive impact on the increase in income, most immediately, most urgently, by establishing that the deficits that can be made in the system, as is the case at the moment, can be covered by the General Budgets of the State, because for other things there is already money. Secondly, and in the medium term, by achieving new labour standards that guarantee decent jobs with decent pay conditions and, therefore, with good contributions. And this comes, first of all, by repealing the 2012 Labour Reform of the People's Party. I'm done. Our pensioners, you know, are standing at war defending a public pension system that guarantees us a decent retirement. The parties of our coalition will continue to fight for the defense of a decent public pension system for all. We'll do it in the streets and we'll do it in the parliaments. That is why we were bringing this initiative today, so that this Parliament could become a powerful voice in defence of a good public pension system. We believe that we have succeeded and are satisfied. We know that much remains to be done and that, of course, the People's Party does not share this exhibition that I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u46	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u47	Thank you, President. Today it is possible for many of us to come here today with messages from our closest elders, and it is certain that one thing will be able to share all of them and all of them: we cannot allow that fundamental pillar of social cohesion that those who preceded us to be dismantled. We do not want to accept, either by the current pensioners or by those who come after us, that it will be all of us. And we note, fortunately, a broad will in this House for the public system, and we note a broad agreement on the measures to be taken to consolidate it, even with the nuances that we can introduce to each other. That is the main message that is worth the Socialists and that we want to get to those who are mobilizing in such an exemplary, massive and clear way. We have proposals to strengthen a public model that guarantees decent income and that does not lose purchasing power, and in the face of that conviction, and when we are putting realistic measures on the table, what we want to say is that there is no excuse for not doing so. Neither the severe crisis suffered, nor the ageing of the population, nor the obligations with Europe to meet the deficit, which are realities that cannot be eluded, can be the excuse of an ill-advised government to throw balloons out to hide its inability to manage a country. What is happening with the pension system is only one more step in the plan designed to dismantle all the pieces of the welfare state and of the social rights conquered, with their imperfections, sure, but with undoubted progress and cohesion. Six years of Rajoy's government leave as a provisional balance more inequality and more unprotected. They leave a trace of medication, which has led to sick people, where the main group are precisely the older ones, who take a pension, to give up or even to reduce the drugs prescribed by their doctors, and that in Euskadi we have been able to reverse thanks to the compensation we have arbitrated. They leave a trail of impoverishment of families, which on many occasions is only alleviated by the income of pensioners. They leave a trail of unprotected working class, which since the labour reform of 2012 has suffered a clear deterioration in their wages, affecting contributions to face current pensions and to ensure the future of the working population. And an absolute emptying of the well that intended to meet specific situations of insufficiency, and that this government has turned into a structural deficit. They leave a trace of contempt for all the voices who have warned of this situation, of this increase in inequalities, of the need to act on labour rights, on wage increases, on the health system, on the need to guarantee a public system. That's the legacy, gentlemen of the PP. It is known, it is public and it has forced to mobilize those who did not think they had to do it again, to whom four decades ago they already made all the effort they had to do: to fight for the public system, to work and to contribute. When they had their rights well won, this government has forced them to raise their voices, and the government tells them not to bother, that they already raise one euro a month each year and that those who say something else deceive them. No, the one who cheats and the one who lies is the one who refuses to listen to what the pensioners say and what we say by a large majority of this House, even with our differences. What the Socialists say, and we have already moved to the Congress of Deputies: increase in pensions according to the real price of life, that is, increase according to the CPI. We are not talking about charity that is dispensed to the taste of the government of turn; it is a right, that the pensioners in the rest of Europe have, to which Rajoy only invokes to cut, and that which guarantees article 50 of our Constitution, to which Rajoy invokes when he accuses others of violating the law. And it can be done, it is bound to be done, because, as we say, it is a right that the Government is forced to take care of and probably wants to take steps to do so; I suppose it will not be Mr. Maroto's buffoons and it will be something more blunt. And in this plenary, as in Congress, and contrary to the escapist arguments of the Government, we are proposing concrete measures to finance this update. Repeal the sustainability factor, imposed by the absolute majority that Rajoy no longer has, that poor 0.25 which impoverishes more than 8 million pensioners every day; prevent it from continuing to dilapidate the pension hedge; eliminate bureaucratic and administrative expenses from the pension account; current contributions should be allocated to cover pensions and not to expenses arising from their management, nor to cover bonuses and exemptions, which should be charged to the general budget account. We must recover the Toledo Pact, which you ignored when you set in motion the sustainability factor as an appropriate area to forge those agreements, including the blurring of maximum contributions or the study of new tax figures. Everyone can have an opinion, but that debate and the need for such an agreement is inevitable, and we must act immediately, establishing the reference to the IPC, which is what PSOE has promoted this week at the congress. And we have to act in the labour market. We must act now, by recovering collective bargaining, which this Government repealed by decree six years ago, as a axis for a wage recovery, and re-dress workers' rights. A new statute should be agreed that would recover those lost rights and update them by looking at new professional realities. And we must do so, as we are doing here, with our powers, fighting against labour fraud, against situations that circumvent the contributions that really belong to the workers and especially to the workers. And to improve those own tools – that is what we also ask in this plenary, once again – that the Rajoy Government should feel once again with the Basque Government to agree on what the Statute says, the transfer of the social security economic regime, so that we will have, among other things, a strengthened inspection service, which, although it may seem minor, is essential to combat the gender pay gap and the generational pension gap. Perhaps there are those who have better ideas but, of course, it is not a better idea to ask pensioners for patience or to face them than in the worst times of the crisis they were finally fired from the system. The PP specializes in confronting the worst passers-by. We already have close experiences in other subjects. And now he intends to confront pensioners with unemployed or precarious people, and shows, at the very least, that, forgive me for saying it, you have lost the north, you do not know the country you are ruling, that you are unable to manage it and that the only thing he does is that the pensioners today feel insulted by you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u48	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u49	Thank you, chief of the board, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. Our political position: the defence of the public system of pensions, which will continue to be a support for generations, and which will remain the fundamental post of our state of well-being. I believe that this debate has passed or evolved over the debate we had on 2 November, and today we have made progress thanks to the work of most of this House. And I sincerely believe that based also on the work done in the amendment that we were presenting. A work that essentially brought or brought together two debates that we saw on that day: the debate on how and from where; the debate on how, the debate on the challenges, the problems of the system to be overcome; and the debate on where, the debate on transfer, the debate on competition. Mr Damborenea looks at us from his watchmanship today and will surely delight us with some of the approaches he has already used. With regard to the debate on how, or the debate on the problems of the system, the challenges of the system will already tell us of its ownership as saviors of the system, as the creators of the reserve fund (now with less, a little more deflated, in that debate). He will surely tell us how Rajoy has today called a full monograph on pensions. And with regard to the sphere of competence, he will surely tell us about that deficient fear here, "the scarecrow", which Mrs Pinedo said, I think he will remind us, and he will also tell us about his theory of damaged goods. We hope today, Mr Damborenea, something more, something more than this. Principles. Our principles, our commitment to a public pension system, characterized by its sufficiency and sustainability, based on the existence of decent pensions, in a framework of solidarity and transparency, with certain sources of funding, which guarantee to present and future beneficiaries – pensioners – predictable and adequate pensions. For us, the social security system must contribute to a number of first-class social objectives, be the main social protection system in the area of pensions, maintain its public character, both in its financing and its management, to ensure that the elderly are not at risk of poverty. Social security must therefore recognise sufficient and non-regressive minimum pensions, which must be updated in accordance with the CPI. sufficiency and non-regression. To be predictable: it has to be a predictable system, avoiding corrective factors of uncertain and, in any case, pension-reducing developments. And it must promote solidarity. These are the principles from which we start, the challenges of the system. We are aware that the system faces challenges. That the system generates solutions for adapting to these challenges requires a thorough forecast of diagnosis and proposals, and requires it to be carried out well in advance. We all know the political complexity of that forecast. But if it doesn't happen, if it doesn't work, if you let the time pass waiting for the problem to disappear or the challenge to decrease, the consequences will be serious. There is no time to waste, because the challenges will not simply disappear. The catalogue of factors that condition or can condition the system can be very wide. We find a multitude of definitions, determinations, elements, birth rates, mortality, dependency rate, life expectancy, ratios, taxpayers, pensioners, number of ratios, different magnitudes and their corresponding scenarios, evolutions and deviations. If we had to summarise as much as possible all these elements, we would highlight two major blocs: the demographic challenge and the challenge of quality employment. And how has the Government of the State and, fundamentally, since December 2011, the 10th Legislature, that of the absolute majority of the Rajoy Government, faced these challenges? Well, with a clear methodology in front of these challenges. First, an absolute lack of consensus. Absolute majority, yes; absolute loneliness, too. Secondly, a lack of transparency, referring both to the system, to the management of pensions, in their maneuvers within the system (Law 23/2013, is clear this lack of transparency in its preamble), and also a lack of transparency in information towards citizens. Mr. Damborenea, what are you going to tell us about the orange letter, the one you promised, where you were going to give each pensioner that information? In addition to a violation of the law, for example, Organic Law 3/1979, our Statute. And what results, what concrete measures, resulting from the implementation of this methodology, have the People's Party Government launched to address the main challenges of the pension system? Is there any measure in the area of demographic challenge? Zero, empty set. In the other area, Labor Reform 2012: good choice, good action aimed at generating quality employment, no doubt. This is irony; a parenthesis. Another measure: Law 23/2013, regulating the Sustainability Factor and the System Revaluation Index, example of regressivity and lack of transparency in pure state, and Royal Decree-Law 28/2012, on the free disposition of the Reserve Fund, the most absolute of improvisations, pull out of the drawer. We have made a comprehensive approach to this issue with three clear basic lines: to modify the methodology used so far by the Rajoy Government, to unravel some of the harmful decisions of the Rajoy Government, and to propose new and concrete solutions that will never come to the Rajoy Government. Our amendment text, which is largely reflected in the text we have had, is the seven-point materialization of those three basic lines. I would like to highlight the most important ones: to restore the consensus prior to the 10th Legislature and, to this end, to repeal Law 23/2013, which regulates the Sustainability Factor and the System Revaluation Index, replacing it with new formulas that have an explicit agreement, clear, safe and transparent formulas and less regressive; to restore as a formula for updating pensions their connection to the CPI; to restore the prohibition of free disposal of the reserve fund beyond 3% (the Royal Decree-Law 28/2012 allows them to do what they want without control). Sources of the system. It has already been mentioned: to boost the increase in the system's revenue, by intensifying mechanisms to combat irregular recruitment and fraud of contributions, as well as, where appropriate, by supplementing the system's hypothetical funding deficits with revenue from the tax system. Expenditure, transparency, elimination of inappropriate expenditure, and other important measures. One tool: there was talk of the Toledo Pact. All systems have such tools, they are necessary. It gives me a bit the same as it is called; they are necessary, they are the R & D of the system, they are the study and the response that the system must have at every moment. In the Toledo Pact, absolute improvisation. Today, another example with Montoro. They do not take this tool seriously; they do not take it seriously. You just have to look at the figure of your president: you don't take it seriously. Comply with the law. At least, comply with organic laws, those that are up there, at least comply with organic laws. And, in this sense, initiate the actions leading to the immediate transfer to Euskadi of the management of the economic regime. We've made some progress today. We have made progress here, we have passed the debate on how and where with the subject we are dealing with. I think it is over, that we have overtaken that debate, Mr Damborenea. But you, Mr. Damborenea, have another problem, not just how or where. They have another problem: when, when. You're running out of time, you're running out of time. They will not be able to escape from it; they will not escape from it. Face it. And there's only one way to deal with it: tell the truth, reach agreements and abide by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u50	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The next round of the group that has not issued any correction is Lord Damborena, representing the Basque Potula team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Aiartza, apply it to him. Tell the truth. Tell the truth. Yeah, yeah. And stop making cheap demagogy with all the left-wing groups in this House in which, of course, I include them. And I say demagogy, because one thing is what is said and another is what is done. What you do when you rule and when you're ruling today, because you rule here, I don't know if you've forgotten. You rule here and you have ruled in Spain, and these gentlemen have had your governments there too. Well, and those gentlemen have some fantastic references to what they do with pensions. This debate reminds me a lot of those cheap demagogies. And I remember... It's been a long time since the older people were selling them libraries around their homes. Today goes the gas one; you always have to do a gas review every month... And it seems to me, it gives me the feeling that all of you are in this same comic book. I am going to tell the truth. Look, we are the only party in Spain today and in this community today that defends the public pension system we have, because none of you believe it. And if you believe it, lie, because all the speeches of the four who have come out here have been to say that we have to modify it because it is useless, because it is broken, because it is a disaster. And we are the only party that we continue to say from the beginning that we do find the model broken, of course. That is, that it is viable and that it has solution and that it is arranged if in the year 2019 we reach 20 million contributors. Because this is a contributory system. Solidarity, yes, but because there are people who contribute. Man, and let's see if you guys stop doing a little... I understand that you guys would have liked to be able to come here and say that's that the PP dropped the pensions, that's what the PSOE did, or that's what we can... Mr Hernández, 2017: Greece applies the thirteenth pension cut in seven years. These are you. 40 %. Sorry, 40 in seven years, 40%. But this was last year. This year, they're on. You have what the left does with the income of the elderly, because they care about a cumin! They come here to demagogy. I'm going to give you some data. And I say they do demagogy because, Mr. Pastor, you rule and you have ruled. They are the only party that has frozen pensions in this country. The only one. With support from others: some abstained and others voted in favour. You've taken them down. And he tells me that Mr. Maroto is bluffing. Hey, Mr. Sanchez voted... For buffoons those of Mr Sánchez, who voted to freeze the pensions and recently proposed that we are going to invent a tax on banks to raise 3 billion euros to pay the pension deficit. That's a joke, listen. Nor did the deficit in the Basque Country cover it with that joke. Tell people the truth. You have to tell the truth. Then tell the truth of things and numbers, and not occurrences! Since 2007, the average pension has risen by 40%. In their amendments they refer to the OECD report. Everyone has been forgotten today about the OECD report. What does that OECD report say, pensions in Spain? Pensioners in Spain are the least at risk of poverty in the OECD as a whole. 5%. That is what that report says, that the salary-to-pension ratio is the highest in the OECD, 70%. That's what that report says. That's what that report says. Why fool people, if that's what it is? I know that you would like it to be the way you want it to be, that no money would come, that we would have taken the pensions from the pensioners, that we would have lowered them; because I know that you would love to be able to come out here to the rostrum to say that the PP steals the older gentlemen, and the ladies more. Well, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry. And we did the 2013 reform, so we wouldn't let them down, why? Because if we have it referenced to the CPI... , now is the big news, listen: 2014, negative inflation, 2015, negative,... They would have liked the PP government to bring down pensions according to inflation, wouldn't they? I didn't hear either of you come here to say you had to refer to inflation. Where were you last year talking about this? Cheap demagogues! Man, Mr. Pastor and Mr. Hernández, tell us, what we've done. Hey, reform it to get them up. And it was reformed so that no government can lower them or freeze them as the Socialist Party did, with the invaluable help of the rest, except the PP, and 0.25 is the minimum that goes up. Because here some people have been filled with sustainability, which is, by the way, a European criterion, but they are forgotten when it comes to implementing sustainability measures. Because that reform of the 13th doesn't say we have to go up to 0.25. He says there's a fork: minimum rises by 0.25 and maximum inflation plus 0.5. Depending on the sustainability of the system. When the system is surplus, more than 0.25 may be raised, but with system costs and system revenues. And demagogue is the one who comes to say that we have to go up more now, even though it is not sustainable. Because what you would really like is for you to have broken the pension system in Spain, Mr Pastor. I'm so sorry, we're gonna keep working so it doesn't happen and that doesn't happen. Man, and may you tell us about the gap between men and women, for in the end... the only government that has done anything has been the People's Party government. Of course, Mr. Hernandez wants to take away all the bonuses we have. Of course, we have 15 per cent of the mothers who contribute: it affects 340,000 women. It will bother you; we consider it a measure that corrects that wage gap, and we will maintain it. And if we can, we'll increase it. Even if you think it's too bad. Or when this government of Mariano Rajoy considered the pregnancies and childbirths of women of earlier years to be listed years. Of course, on the left you've never thought of these little things. Freeze pensions, yes. I remember that, before Mr Zapatero arrived, in the Toledo Pact – which is filled here with the Toledo Pact – there was an agreement to raise widow's pensions. But Mr. Zapatero came to the government and ruled for eight years. And he forgot, and that there was no economic crisis. And it is this government that is making the rise. That, by the way, is not in force, because the unions continue to marry the decree. This government, that of the People's Party. The Basque pension system. I'm just, really, I'm not gonna waste much time. 2017, minus 3 billion, not counting management costs (which I don't know why we don't have to count them, Mr Hernández). Not counting expenses, $3 billion, in one year. 20% of this budget. What do you want me to say? And when you tell us about competences... listen, all of you have voted against our proposal, which was "transfer yes", according to the Constitution, the Statute and the Constitutional Court, as you have established 20 years ago, at your own request. And I think the most tangible proof that no one believes in the system is that everyone says we have to reform it, but none tells us what, when, or how, Mr. Aiartza, or how. And it has to have more revenue; that is, on account of the State Budget. And where does the income come from? No, no, tell me, please, where the income comes from. Because if you're going to tell me about taxes, I will remind you that we have an Economic Concert, of which, by the way, yesterday we celebrated the 140th anniversary, in which that is our competition, and we would have to pay it ourselves. Last year, 3 billion euros. This year, you calculate 3,400. You don't think that with 20% higher taxes you collect 20% more, no; you have to raise it much more, you have to raise it much more, but I hope you will explain to me how you are going to do it. And anyway I'll tell you one thing, you guys here are confusing what a pension system is. Pensions are a right, a right of which you contribute. The non-quota person does not have that right. And it is charged on the basis of what has been quoted. And another very different thing is the system of the state of social welfare that we have given ourselves, and that when we talk about dignity, dignified incomes, for that we have the system. And it doesn't matter if the income is low because it comes from pensions, wages, unemployment, or because there isn't. The one that guarantees the dignity of the system, in this case, is the GIR. And finally, I say to the progressives from here to my right, because I was ruling a Mr López when he proposed to lower it by 7%, and they are still keeping it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u52	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing over the answer, the representative of the EH Collect Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u53	Good morning again. I'll continue to defend our proposal because I think it's important. However, I shall say here that we know there is a medium, and those who have signed it know that my hand is in some parts, because I have corrected some things, or that I have made some contributions. But, today, from EH Bildu, we continue to defend our initial proposal, our initial motion, and that does not stop so that, by compromise with the pensioners of our country, we will approve the compromise amendment. The compromise amendment in which there are also parties to our initial proposal, including some amendments that I will then try to explain. Why do I say that we are going to defend and continue to defend our initial proposal? Because today we have also seen how the People's Party, which today had a complicated role – but Mr Damborenea knows how to torture with that and more – has made a defense of a system, which according to them are the only ones who believe it is viable. I have not said at any time that it is not feasible, but that you have made it unviable, you have made it unviable with your efforts. And not only with the changes regarding the pension laws – which have been bloody – but, even more serious, with what nourishes the social security system, which are the contributions of the workers. And you have dedicated yourself to making the contributions of the workers ever smaller, more poor, because you have dedicated yourself to making the Spanish labour market miserable, with regrettable employment contracts and with a working situation that makes, above all, those workers who have to work under that labour legislation that you have made from your point of view, of course, liberal and right-wing, that we care absolutely nothing about the welfare of the workers, those workers often have a hot meal in front of them because there are pensioners in their home who take them away. That is the problem, gentlemen of the People's Party, that is one of the great problems. And for that reason, we advocate without any cover for a public Basque pension system. Because I have said this here several times: I am an independentist and advocate for a Basque state, so I advocate for a Basque pension system. But that does not mean that I know what the situation is and that is why we also have other proposals, which will later defend my colleague Nerea Kortajarena, in other plenary sessions, on the welfare of today's pensioners. But we think of today's pensioners and pensioners and tomorrow's pensioners. And that is why we believe that it is important to move towards a Basque pension system, and that is why, in the amendment that you have finally agreed, that you put the subject of transfer, you have finally admitted what we were putting on the table, the transfer on the competences of Social Security, and not just economic management, because, as I have commented to you, in the Statute of Autonomy, in Article 18.2, we are also talking about legislative development, and it is essential that we also transfer that. Let us not trap the lonely; the Statute of Autonomy also speaks of that, not only of economic management and, although it seems to be something technical, it is also essential that we have that, because for us that is a scaffold to build a posteriori a Basque pension system. And it's the last point, the last point of our proposal, they say, that's caused trouble. And we used to say that the right of the Social Security, which we received in the Common-wealth, will no longer be a condition to make any other steps than to form a private pension system, as the majority says. And this is a democratic principle. If the majority of this country, at one point, that is, then endorsed in this Parliament, decides that we want to move towards a Basque public pension system, what is the problem? It is a democratic principle, it is a question of the right to decide, and that is what you did not want to put in the compromise amendment. There were people who were willing, because of their democratic character, and I say this by the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos; I did not see it badly as a democratic character, but there were others who were not willing to do so. I do not know whether it is because of the democratic character, non-democratic character or any other character, but I remind you that in the Statute of Autonomy itself there is a rather similar phrase in which it is said that admitting the Statute of Autonomy does not mean that the Basque people renounces the rights they may have. But, of course, it seems that now we don't want to talk about this. We will talk about it at other times, but it is very important. We are going to vote in favour of the compromise amendment, yes, Eta bukatzera noa, we are going to vote in favour, Bai, we are going to vote in favour, because we believe that steps must be taken, and because we are committed to pensioners, as I said in my first speech. Because this issue we have brought here on successive occasions throughout this legislature and in the last legislature we have also brought it. Because we have a commitment, a commitment to the pensioners of this country and to all those citizens of this country who we from EH Bildu do want to have a dignified life. And we are clear, it will be much more dignified in an independent state.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u55	Yeah. Indeed, as Mrs Pinedo said at the end of her speech, I have no problem in our group with collecting certain questions, because we have no problem with discussing the pension system itself. Among other things, because I am very clear that I do not want a system of my own, because there is a system in this public moment that covers us and I want to save that system – not I, of course – I want to save that system that is public and I want to strengthen its principles of solidarity between generations and also between the different territories and nations of our State. That is my option and that is why I have no problem discussing it, and that is why I believe that we are absolutely convinced and believe in the public pension system, as much as Mr Damborenea comes out here with his usual style vehemently, even at times cliché, to say that less they all the others what we want is to burden us with the public pension system. Man, I don't know, go out and tell those on the streets that it's everyone's fault but the People's Party. And not only the guilt, but also that, deliberately, the rest of the political parties in this country want to burden us with the public pension system, except the People's Party. Those who vote for you do not believe this, nor do those who vote for you believe such barbarity. And you also say that we say that we have to reform the system, but that we do not say how or when, when what we are going to approve is an initiative, a transaction with a lot of elements of how, with a lot of elements of how, and if you want the when I say it now: as soon as I can, already, as soon as the People's Party leaves the Moncloa government. Therefore, it is a lie, and here the only person who has made demagoguery has been you, Mr Damborenea, to such an extent that you have had to take from me what we have done in Greece. I've never been to Greece. Well, I lie; I was on my way to Cyprus, two hours at the airport in Athens. I didn't see anything from Greece, more than the airport. And you resort to such foolishness. I do not know, it has failed you to say that we were responsible for the missile crisis or some other matter, I do not know, the construction of the Berlin wall, I do not know whether it was my fault directly or not. In short, that shows that you had to come out here to defend yourself and sell that the People's Party has no responsibility for what happens to pensions. We will, of course, maintain ourselves in the speech I have made, which is an ideological speech, especially in the first part of my speech. Because although it certainly seems to you that what I am saying, and which I already said on another occasion here, is conspiracy theory; we believe deeply in this. There's a deliberate attack on the public pension system, and I don't believe in the inherent evil of the human being because I do. I don't think the People's Party wants to attack the pension system because they get up one morning, they say "how bad we are, we're going to attack the public pension system," but behind that attack there are direct economic interests. Very powerful economic interests, which see in pensions a niche market and what they want is a system of public pensions, yes, raquitico, that forces people to seek complements in private pensions. Therefore, we are going to maintain that position, that ideological discourse, because behind that issue comes the reforms that you drive. And we think it's important to understand it, and we defend it. I could refer to some of the issues that you have mentioned that are not true. We have not spoken, when we speak of some of the bonuses to which you refer, we have said – and you should read what we have approved – that they are not covered by this system, that they are covered by the General Budgets of the State. Yes, you've made reference to widow's pension bonuses, etc. Yeah, that's not in the amendment. No, Mr. Damborenea, you read it well. That's not what you said. In any case, we have put forward a non-legislative proposal with specific initiatives and I can understand that you do not agree with them. But what you can't do is come and tell us that we don't propose how to do it, because we propose it. And you do not agree, and it is very legitimate that you do not agree, but you do not agree because there are specific economic interests behind it. And that's what we came to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u56	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u57	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Damborenea, very quietly, without getting nervous, I'm going to give you data and figures, which you like very much. Statistical data; they are not the invention of the Socialist Party. Between 2004 and September 2011, the period corresponding to the two legislatures of Zapatero, the minimum retirement pension at age 65 was increased by 50.8% with dependent spouse and by 36% for those who did not. In that period the accumulated inflation was 22.8. This means that minimum pensions gained purchasing power and exceeded the price index by 28 and 13 points. The minimum widow's pensions, Mr Damborenea, also improved by between 44% and 66% for those over 65 years of age. Statistical data from an organism that you now control. This means that the increase was up to 3 times higher than the price increase in those years. And the pension fund, which you left with less than 20 billion, we left at the end of Zapatero's term of office at almost 70,000. That's the real data. It is true – but don't tell half truths – that in 2011 there was freezing of a part of the pensions, because half truths are usually the worst lies. You forget to say that all minimum and non-contributory pensions rose above the CPI. Only high pensions were frozen; this is a detail that you are permanently forgotten. By the way, that report that was referred to by the OECD is from 2007, isn't it? Yes, 2007 you said in this rostrum. Well, in any case, those reports are supposed to be updated with the current situation. I suppose that report today would not reflect such a magnificent reality for Spanish pensioners. And it is true, I admit, that the period before Zapatero, in Aznar's terms, the minimum pensions were raised an average of 3.7 each year; 7 tenths more than the CPI. But at the time of the PSOE they rose to almost 7%, i.e. with a much higher differential; and widowhood pensions, which rose by 3.7 with Aznar, and between 6 and 8 and a half with Zapatero on average, and are statistical data. It's not the invented truth that you tell. And what is true is that from 2012 until here you have fused directly into the pension box, leaving it below the EUR 10 billion in which Aznar left it, and purchasing power has dropped by 1.4%. And it is true that there are now higher pensions; but that is not your merit, it is a problem that the workers have contributed for many years and they are entitled to that contribution. So I don't think it's worth playing triplets. Among other things, do you know what's going on?: that pensioners already believe them. They believe absolutely nothing, and it has nothing more to do with the thousands and thousands of people who go out every week to protest because they are distressed by the situation. Because they know what they're saying? It costs more the stamp of the letter sent to you by Mrs Báñez than what you have raised your pension, and that is an objective reality. So, stop asking workers and pensioners to save. Save them from where, if they barely get to cover the end of the month? That is why we care, most importantly, that in this Parliament, beyond the differences, in which, if I have time, there is a majority will to maintain the public system and to link it to the CPI. It's true that there were three or four years in which the CPI was negative, but that's where the story ended. Since then that has not been given, that has not been given. That's why we say we have to tie him to the CPI. And let us hope that this debate will serve us to reinforce the debate that will have to take place and that will take place in the Congress of Deputies and, therefore, there you will have to retract and recover what has been a dynamic until you have arrived, which is consensus in the Toledo Pact when dealing with the necessary reforms in pensions. I want to thank the groups that have signed the transaction, PNV and us and Elkarrekin Podemos, for the effort of responsibility that has been made. I agree with Mrs Pinedo, I recognize that they too have been able to approach the fundamentals, but you understand that I cannot share the idea that if the pension system were Basque it would be safe from financial concerns and that if it were not, it would not be safe. The solution of the pension system is to strengthen the system at Spanish level, and we are in favour of intergenerational and interterritorial solidarity, and they do not respect it. Putting a Txapella on the system makes it neither more viable, nor more feasible, nor more efficient, nor more sustainable. That is our fundamental difference, but in spite of everything – I said it at first and I say it now – I remain with what we basically have a broad coincidence, and there I want to leave the debate and I hope that this will strengthen the real debate that has to take place in the Congress of Deputies, and that, sooner or later, pensioners do not need to go out on the street to defend what is theirs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u58	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u59	Thank you, ma'am, again. Mr. Damborenea, I like to listen to you in this rostrum. I'll have to make him look, surely; I like to listen to him, normally. I liked it less today, I liked it less today. And not because he called me a demagogue, not because of that, but because he's moved from irony to, I don't know, a little angry, and that gives me something to think about, and that gives me something to think about, just like that. Principles: I believe them, I believe in them. Objectives, which we as political formation raise from the basis of these principles: I believe them and I believe they are achievable. Viability of the system: I believe it and I believe it is achievable. Demagogy. He has given us another example of prestige today, playing hands – I am not going to say what Mr. Pastor has said – playing hands. You are the ones who met the broken model –photography – and you are, in the same sentence, the ones who met, you have told us here: "We meet the broken model –photography –, we constitute the Reserve Fund –photography –". The second is true. Photograph of the broken model, 2011. The other photograph, 2000. Year 2000, Mr. Damborenea. Don't play those hand games with us. You are not in the year 2000 with the broken system. Let's talk about... No, no, it's just that you've mixed up the two issues. You find yourself with the distribution system, and let's talk about that income, the income via contributions. You find yourself with the distribution system with contributions in the year 2000 of 89 billion (in round numbers), and benefits of 82 billion. Where do the remaining 7 billion go? You will tell me: the Reserve Fund in that year. Everyone? I wonder, all of you? And before, when the Reserve Fund did not exist, where did that differential go? Where was that differential going? Speaking of income. Quotes that go up like that. Benefits. They cross in 2011. In 2011 the system, as you say, is also not broken. They've crossed paths. These lines are crossed and approximately €102 billion crossed. The system's not broken. The system is not broken and it also had a spring that is, in fact, the Reserve Fund, to bear that issue. Do not use different photos from different moments. That's demagogy. That's demagogy. Time, Mr. Damborenea. And I'll be back in time. Today, here, I say again: we have made progress. Today we have advanced different positions, different positions that reach a minimum common denominator, and you know that you can move forward. What's going on is that you guys are keeping to the same methodology you've been using since 2011. It is maintained in that methodology; this simply happens. I would tell you, and seeing what has been seen in this House today, I would simply tell you: tell the truth. Tell the truth. Come to terms. Make agreements with others and comply with the law. I told you in my first speech: time. They have used time systematically, and they have used time, not to predict the system, not to generate proposals that transform the system into something more effective, more sustainable... No, no, They have not used it for that purpose. The time you have used during these 16 years, in part, from 2000 to 2017 – in part, because it is true that there have been times, there has been a parenthesis, in which you were not in government – the time you have used it with a calculation, a strictly electoral calculation. Use the time you have left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u60	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. And finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Aiartza – which I forgot in the first speech – reminds you that the Government of Spain, that of Rajoy, did approve a comprehensive plan to support the family in 2015, when you were talking about demography. I think we have a bigger problem than that of Spain as a whole, but that is good. And it says, "man..." It's a serious debate for me. You realize that my mother is a widow and a pensioner. It's very serious to me. I want my mother, as I have repeated more than once in this rostrum, to continue to collect her pension. There are some, Mr Hernández, that you prefer that there are no contributions, without being low, yes, because the salaries are low, the contributions are low, we prefer that there is none of that and that there are contributions, yes, yes, but of those there was no, of those there was no... Look, I'd rather have someone quote and get rights, even if it's low at first, from now on. Especially young people. Same thing because I have kids, too, you know? So I'm worried about them, too. The Basque system, me, let's see, I'm going to waste little time. The Basques have been, have been collecting their pension for 11 years (last year it was already 10, it is already 11 years), thanks to the national solidarity of the single pension fund. Because we are deficient, even before the economic crisis. Since 2006, since 2006. And nobody follows me here and nobody tells me where they're going to get the money so fantastic, 20% of this year's budget from the Basque Government. Mr Hernandez, I am not saying that you want to load the system; I am telling you that you would have been happy if the PP had lowered the pensions, if we had done all that you said. You would have been delighted. And I took Syriza out, but I could talk, because I told her, that I love that all the left-wings are together, because the left-wings did the same thing in Portugal: lowering pensions another 40%. In Greece 40% of Syriza goes over 40% of the previous 40% of Papandreu. It is not a joke; the socialist paradise that you create where you rule. But I'm just setting it as an example. Well, and they tell me their concrete proposals. Please, your concrete proposal, point one, I have told you. It says, "Guarantee a sufficient and sustainable public pension system." If paper endures everything, but his proposals... Now let's go to your proposals. Point two, repeal the 2013 Act. This prevented pensions from being lowered in the 14th, 15th and 16th for pensioners. Because everyone would have liked us to have had to lower them because we were referring to the CPI. Well, look, we don't agree, okay? Pensioners are the only collective in Spain that has remained guaranteed their purchasing power throughout the crisis: the only, the only. And I'm sorry to bother you. Prohibit, third point, the free disposal of the reserve fund. They would have liked it if we hadn't gotten our hands on the reserve fund, which, yes, would have been created by us by the time the times of skinny cows came, because they would have liked it if the pensioners could not be paid. We're so sorry, listen, we're gonna keep doing it. We're gonna keep doing it. Fourthly, take measures to increase funding from the State Budgets. Hey, in charge of what, what games? Are these your proposals, Mr. Hernández? You're in particular, what are you playing at? Five, you were telling me I read wrong. Eliminate exemptions, bonuses and reductions in the contribution of companies to social security, as well as, as well as, the management costs of budget entities, and those costs go there, not deductions. Repeal the employment reform of the 12, of course, which is the one that prevents more people from remaining unemployed, and starts to create jobs and contributors, because you would already have liked this to be a bigger disaster than it was. And little more. But, Mr. Pastor, widow's pension: listen, I'll tell you about the base. That the base had to have gone up. Then comes the increments... The basis, the basis of the widow's pension. Mr. Zapatero was forgotten in the days of fat cows. Five points should have gone up the base. Man, and the pension fund, "molten, rapture of the PP"... I am going to recognize Mr. Aiartza that virtually since the foundation of the fund no government has contributed to the fund all that it should have provided. Now, Mr. Pastor, Mr. Zapatero was forgotten for two years to enter a euro. He fused it to him. He knows what it's about. With the contribution of those two years, the fund today had to have more than 20 billion euros. Yeah, yeah, they forgot. He froze the pensions and they forgot to finance the fund with the surpluses there were, with the surpluses there were, to pay other things at the expense of the pensioners. And Mr. Aiartza: agreements...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u62	Finish up, Mr. Damborena.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u63	We are prepared to reach agreements where it fits, but that does, ensuring a sustainable and fair system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u64	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mrs. Pindo Bustamante's original text. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 18; contraries, 56; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u65	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u66	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Mary, Maria del lópez de Ocariz lópez de Munez de Muninai, a member of the American laws of the Gaspulian Group, presented to us as the future of the Touristic Guardian Guardia. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Lopez de Ocarariz has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u67	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I present this motion as a result of the inquiry lodged on 16 February concerning the future of the Basque Tourist Observatory.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u69	Today we remain in a position of failure and proof, entrail, entrail, test. I hope that this present will be amended as soon as possible. Indeed, we want to talk about the future, the future of the Euskadi Tourist Observatory, as a powerful structure, which is useful for the tourism sector, which responds and contributes to the information needs of analysis and study of tourism activity, the behavior of destinations, which analyses the information generated and shared by users, in addition to internal and external data from other sources. And as the Department's ultimate future tool, we have the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption 2017-2020. The 7th axis comes to say that it dedicates it to the structure, establishes a new model of management and governance, and talks about the model of management and what model of management of the tourism system to use. And it says: to implement a comprehensive command box to coordinate the follow-up of the Basque tourist strategy, to boost the Tourist Observatory of Vasco to measure the performance of the tourist system of the Basque Country. To promote territorial balance in Basque tourism promotion, to set up working groups specialized in the management of specific aspects of the tourist system. And if we go to the initiatives and proposals of each axis and implementation objectives, we find, in fact, that the Basque Tourist Observatory will be activated throughout 2019. It seems to us that this deadline is excessive, that we have a lot of time ahead of indefinitely. And in initiative 28, it is said that, in order to have truthful information on the performance of the sector and to share this information with the sector, the Basque Tourist Observatory will be promoted. And this initiative has two options: to implement the framework for monitoring the strategy and to adapt the Euskadi Tourism Observatory to the requirements of a competitive tourism intelligence system. And we again use two names for it, or not: Basque Tourist Observatory, Basque Tourist Observatory. Mr. Counsellor told me in the interpellation that I tend to be entangled with names; I will be entangled with names and with many more things, because I have a clumsy percentage and, therefore, because I am entangled, yes. But I may also be influenced by some forced readings, such as this strategy, which forces me to meet two different names that I don't know what they respond to. So, that's the situation. We said that we consider the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption to be a tool for the future and hope that the vices that drag from the past will be corrected. We want to take advantage of everything that has been developed so far and to expand the potential that is needed in the field of search, creation and production of data for tourism management. I am not going to expand further, because we have already spoken in the interpellation of all the factors that are essential for tourism activity, and the strategic plan lists a lot of axes and activities. The important thing, I believe, is that we have reached an agreement between all the groups, where I will read you the five points of the compromise amendment: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, within the framework of the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption 2017-2020, together with the agents of the sector and the tourism table, to define and promote the nature and functions of this Basque Tourist Observatory as soon as possible." The plan foresees it throughout 2019 and it seems to us that this can be advanced, can be shortened, and that we actually have that observatory, which is a benchmark for the whole sector. On the second point, we say that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to bring to Parliament, within four months, the conclusions obtained at that table and in that working group, so that it is known to the groups in the House and that we can get to know those conclusions first hand. "The Basque Parliament – we say in point 3 – urges the Basque Government to provide the Basque Tourist Observatory with the technical, human and necessary means to enable it to respond effectively to the requirements of a public system of competitive tourism intelligence." Mr. Counsellor, the inquiry showed that he could indeed count on the staff who had this Observatory in his day. Well, we believe that the Government must make an effort to ensure that the Observatory effectively has the necessary technical and human tools to enable it to carry out its role more effectively for the sector. In paragraph four we say: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to include the indicators necessary to determine whether the Basque tourism sector is moving towards a model of greater economic added value, more diversified from a territorial point of view and more sustainable from the perspective of its social and environmental impact". This is very important. We will have to measure this in all areas, and it also seems to me important that in the tourism sector it is measured, to see how we are progressing on the objectives of real sustainable development. And as a fifth point, we say: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to maintain, as at present, the activity of the Observatory, as long as and when these new structures that are to be designed for this model of Basque Tourist Observatory come into force". That is the compromise amendment. I hope that this will be achieved as soon as possible, that we will have a reference of the tourism sector as the sector itself deserves, that there are many people spending a lot of time improving the quality of the sector it offers, being in the most innovative techniques and, therefore, we, as a support administration, have to live up to the circumstances and have a solid response to their needs. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u70	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u71	Mila esker, Madam President. Good morning to all the women parliamentarians. Today it is up to us to talk about the Basque Tourist Observatory and its future, starting from a motion tabled by the People's Group, which in turn comes from an inquiry that Mrs López de Ocariz made two weeks ago to the Councillor for Tourism, Trade and Consumption, Mr Retortillo. If one listens to the debate that took place at the control plenary on Friday 16 February, it is clear that the interest of both seems to be more in the search for culprits than in finding solutions. An exchange of reproaches, excuses and plots that is not concrete in anything and that responds more to the electoral interests of the parties involved than to the taking of concrete measures that drive and facilitate the activity of the Observatory. However, today we find ourselves on a completely different stage. Everything indicates that, after a reflection, the parties that support the government have fundamentally changed their minds and are willing to acknowledge the shortcomings of the Department and the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Commerce and Consumption 2017-2020. And there is a consensus among all the parliamentary groups on the need to restructure and define the functions of this body, together with the actors in the sector and the Tourism Bureau. It seems to us a positive step and a small step, but an important step. For Elkarrekin It is essential to improve a tool that enhances the intelligent management of information and knowledge. A tourist observatory is first and foremost a report on the situation in the sector, which helps us to make decisions and develop future approaches and measures. Today, tourism is immersed in a process of changes and transformations and we are faced with new challenges and phenomena, as we have already discussed several times in this House, which call on the institutions to plan and rethink our policies, in order to intelligently address the challenges of every order that this new landscape poses. For this reason, in a world where everything is digital information and big data invades all areas of our society, it is essential to have a basis to determine the models of prediction of the main tourist variables of our community in the short, medium and long term, which is responsible for the elaboration of diagnoses and reports of the tourist destinations to which it applies, in our case, to Euskadi. An instrument that is able to identify real or potential tourist destinations, as well as to control the results and effectiveness of tourist policies, and help their possible correction. A centre for research, collection and processing of data and information on the activity, which serves to provide on a continuous basis the different agents of the tourism sector with useful reports and documents for coherent decision-making and planning of actions, without forgetting the monitoring and monitoring of the different strategies, adapting them to the real needs of each territory. To understand tourism in Basque, we need to be able to analyze, study and quantify the behaviors of tourists, tourist movements and the social, economic, cultural and environmental impact that they cause according to multiple variables, in order to advance among all towards a more sustainable and quality tourism model. To this end, we need an accessible, up-to-date and useful tool for the whole Basque tourism sector, to make decisions on time and with a lower degree of uncertainty and risk, to be a referent and part of a new model of corporate culture, more collaborative to inclusive, to coordinate with other autonomous communities to forge networks and exchange information, in order to improve collaboration, communication and public accountability, and to help Basque tourism professionals anticipate and react to changes in the environment, achieving greater success in their strategies and identifying opportunities. And as we proposed in the amendment we tabled, an observatory that includes the indicators necessary to determine whether the Basque sector is moving towards a model of greater economic added value, more diversified from the territorial point of view and more sustainable from the perspective of its social and environmental impact. The Basque Tourist Observatory was created in 2006 by the Basque Government, through public society Basquetour, developed in collaboration with the CICtourGUNE Cooperative Research Centre, and is currently divided into four different areas. There is now unanimity on the need to activate a new model of the Tourist Observatory, which supports sustainable and resilient growth in the sector, and which monitors and takes into account the environmental and social economic impact of tourism on destinations. For all that we have outlined, and thanking the other groups for their willingness to establish a solid basis for tangible information with a view to making informed decisions, we have signed a compromise amendment that urges the Basque Government to include the Observatory in the new tourism model, adapting the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption 2017-2020 within four months and providing it with the technical and human means necessary for intelligent information and knowledge management. But from Elkarrekin We believe that we cannot stay here, and we must continue to make progress to ensure that local stakeholders in the tourism sector are actively involved in measuring risks, costs, impacts, limits and opportunities, through an inclusive and participatory approach. We want to stress the fact that an observatory must be a meeting point, an agora where reflection and debate on the reality and future of tourist activity takes place. We do not want it simply to offer useful and aggregated information to companies in the sector, since the Basque Tourist Observatory must aim to be a process of research and open learning, which necessarily involves reflection and which has at all times the collaboration of the main recipients of the results. A tool that is constituted as an open forum, in which the main actors establish their information needs and have the opportunity to evaluate it jointly, with a view to having a truly valuable instrument for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u73	Hello. Good afternoon. As we have said today, we have obtained an arrangement in this Chamber, and, moreover, an extensive agreement, because we shall all sign the whole party, and in the end this agreement is not in the heart, but in the course of the proceedings. This agreement is an agreement to make things as they ought to be. It does not guarantee us success, but at least it ensures that things are done well in form, which is important, and it will probably help to succeed. We're dealing with economic intelligence around Turism, and we're going to have to make decisions around the observation, and, as we believe, it's logical that, for the area of tourism and for the sector of tourism, the economic intelligence which is essential to the world of tourism, the Turism table must also be central. It seems essential to us about what we're doing, and by this agreement we'll either give him a polite voice or allow him to be a polite voice about the important things that cause him to be in tourism. The government wanted to do things on its own, without consulting with anyone, without hiring anyone. By this arrangement, a sensible path page is planned, as I was saying, in the manner in which we ought to do things. In order to create the table of touristism, in the second article, the functions of the table of Turism are referred to, and among these functions the whole function of economic intelligence is connected with everything. But there is a special point, a specific function, statistics, and data, which proclaims or expresses or proclaims the importance of the table and the protagonism; it is said that between the functions of the table of Tourism the data and statistics of Tourism are evaluated, and if this be given, we believe that by means of the process of generating these figures and data. We live at a significant moment in the sector of turbulence, it's time of change in the world, even in economics, and even in the tourist world, new phenomena occur, we're entering a potless and deep cycle of growth into the world as regards Tourism, but we can also say that at some levels these changes are disruptive, and that it's important that the antennae should be well focused on the dimensions and orientations of these changes, so that we can take whatever measures they require. Just, and for the last few months, I think we'll solve this arrangement, but the steps that have been taken have been taken in the opposite direction. We lost a very ambitious and extensive project with the disappearance of CICourGUNE. Perhaps it was not well defined in character, perhaps that CIC did the functions of a non-CIC, but it performed a tybardo or misdeccination function, which disappeared. But when we were one-eyed, with the disappearance of CICtour GUNE, the government wanted to blind us by evading our observation. And we think reflection is always all right, and in this sense the discussion of today is rather parallel, symmetrical with the discussion that we had about the world of commerce last week, but it is possible to reflect on the possibility of cancelling the inertia, it is possible to change things as long as what is in force remains. And I would recommend this government, or at least this head of the department, to watch a cycling race, and there it will be confirmed that when riders are going to eat they don't stop for lunch in a dining room, but they have a capacity to eat while the bicycles are still on them. They do even more complicated things to eat and to do without coming down from the ring. So when we're at an important moment looking at tourism, we can't erase the tools we've ever done. The tools may not be perfect, but they are what they are. We can't even content ourselves with what is and the way of improvement must always be open, but what we have to keep between us until the new ones are in force, which, fortunately, is reflected in the bargain. I will not copy the points of the agreement, because Mrs. lópez de Ocarizzo has made it, but I want to insist on certain challenges in the world of tourism, and we believe that the new observation must answer it and that we must provide tools for it. We must moderate the impenetrability of the intricacies and the nebulabilitys of tourism, i.e., the negative intricacies, for the relief of the negative impacts, and for the relief or relief of the social or environmental impacts, if possible. We must also have constant information around the sector's work conditions to improve these conditions, we must transcend the stationization of turism, transcend the territory of turism, and, within a district, we must go through the concentration of certain particular cities and villages, we must strengthen the standard of the Basque Country, we must encourage high quality-turnism, and we must activate the activities of the other parts of the Basque Country in order to develop the turitions. It's not the small challenges and I haven't mentioned them all, but this proves us or this enumeration really puts the size of challenge on our table, and we must have the most suitable tools in the intelligence world. And having data is not enough. Creating data is important, having raw data on the table is important, but these data needs to be processed. And that's why we say this isn't solved by a mere statistical organ or by a technical organ within the government. Data must be created, please choose which data to create. It is not enough with existing sources, sometimes new data must be produced, and we must process them, in order to understand what we call them, and to understand them well, in order to do and do them. We understand that the fact that we have entered all the groups in this House, including those who support the Government, into today's agreement is a positive aspect. We hope that this will imply a certain point of inflection in the attitude that this department has been maintaining so far, because it is an attitude that, for, I don't know, we could call it an illustrated despotism if it had been an illustrated attitude. But the truth is that I believe that this government has confused leadership with authoritarianism, and thought it was self-sufficient to be able to do and undo without counting on the sectors in which it is intervening, nor with the groups in this House. But he said that since we have an agreement, we are not going to focus on the negative, but we are going to emphasise the positive and hope that this is a turning point so that we do not come back to these permanently unilateral decisions, of which the maximum exponent can be the strategic plan in respect of which the consultations to the sector have been the minimum to cover the dossier, and the groups will be treated or presented as a pre-cooked dish to which we will not have the opportunity to make any contributions. I am also curious, and I think I should mention this, although I do not want, as I said earlier, to highlight the points of disagreement that we have asked from Euskal Herria Bildu to introduce consultation with the trade unions in order to draw up this road map for the new tourist observatory we need, and it was precisely the Socialist Party that opposed it, when we understood that the difficulties were going to be in convincing the People's Party. While the People's Party has no problem, it seems that the Socialist Party here is annoyed by the unions. And one last reflection: we believe that the Tourism Bureau itself has the instruments to be able to house within it, or with a very direct relationship, this Observatory of Tourism, which, as I repeat, is not only a statistical body or a group intended to produce a series of statistics or numerical analyses of a sector, but is also intended to interpret them and to make all these data useful, and also to guide the direction in which these data are collected. Because sometimes, faced with the challenges, it is necessary to ask ahdoc to generate certain reports, certain studies, to calculate certain variables, and no one better than the Tourism Bureau itself, through the creation of a committee, of a working group – which is also covered by its regulation – which can carry out this function of evaluation and direction of the orientation of economic intelligence in the tourism sector. But that would already be a contribution, making a later phase. What we do have with this agreement is a sensible, rational road map that makes things right and that we also expect it to come to a good conclusion and a good tourist observatory, because this economic sector is of enormous importance, it also has great challenges and can present certain problems, which we hope this new tourist observatory will help to solve. I should just like to thank the groups for their cooperation so that this unanimous agreement can be reached and, in particular, the proposing group, which was, let us say, the manager of that agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u74	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u75	Thank you, President. Egun on, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. The motion put to us by the People's Party on the future of the Basque Tourist Observatory brings its cause for the inquiry that was formulated in the plenary on 16 February, in which the Councilor of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption already explained that the Basque Tourist Observatory was an initiative of CICtourGUNE, which was created in February 2007, with the aim of generating knowledge about tourism. CICtourGUNE proposed in 2010 to Basquetour a collaboration to create a tourist observatory in Euskadi, with a concrete, ambitious, rigorous, serious proposal, very current at that time and well attached to the ground. The areas in which this structure was organized were an area of statistics, an area of tourism, referring to digital information, an area of studies and research, and an area of documentation. And the Competitiveness and Innovation Plan of Basque Tourism 2010-2013 included, as one of the implementation responsibilities in relation to the plan by Basquetour, the development of a tourist observatory, as a competitive surveillance system. An accessible and reference system for the sector, which responds to information needs, analyses and, in addition, studies of tourism activity, also of the behaviour of destinations and markets, which was aimed at facilitating decision-making and with the participation of the actors involved, of the actors in the sector. In 2012, there was a more direct collaboration with Basquetour, and a job was created in Basquetour that would serve as a link between the CICtourGUNE and the department itself, through Basquetour. This job was that of an expert in social research, to make this link between the needs to be posed by Basquetour and the research and technological development carried out by CICtourGUNE itself. So, what we have in 2015 is a Basque Tourist Observatory, which develops CICtourGUNE in collaboration with Basquetour, which worked on these four areas that I have commented to you before. At the end of 2015, the CICtourGUNE cooperative research centre, among others, also closes the Tourist Observatory, and the original project remains exclusively the automatic burden of information from statistical sources, referring to some indicators and not including data sources that were included in their origin. And the department then had an interest in maintaining a database that was already being built by CICtourGune around a series of indicators, that is, much more limited, and that transports and contracts the maintenance of information regarding that tool with Tecnalia in the years 2016 and 2017, and that has the name of Basque Tourist Observatory. And there is another Euskadi observatory, which is an area within Basquetour, which organizes the expert person responsible for research who at the time fulfilled those liaison functions between Basquetour and CICtourGune. Therefore, two tourist observatories, which are two different things, but which have the same name; hence the diversity of names commented by Mrs López de Ocariz. The advisor and the department are committed to maintaining market intelligence, the statistical operations IBILTUR, Familitur and Frontur are maintained, and they intend to include many other studies in a new observatory that will serve the department's areas and, therefore, also the area of Tourism. It was also said the other day, last week: data flow information, for example, by the old part of Donostia-San Sebastián interest both in trade and in this case it would interest tourist management. With the specific statistical body and with the analysis that will be made – among other things – Segittur, among other entities, Segittur, which also depends on the Ministry of Industry and Digital Agenda, on tourism, will be known, first, what is the tourist information that is available, what would be the tourist information that would be needed in Basque tourist reality in Euskadi, what it intends to hire, what would be its costs... And this is what the department intends to organize over the course of this year and which Mrs López de Ocariz finds very extensive in time. But the question is complex: this is not a question of "I determine and it is done today by Article 33", but it requires processes, procedures and advice. It is intended, at the end of the process, to have an observatory that develops all the potentials that in the field of the search for the creation and the production of data for the tourist management becomes necessary nowadays, nowadays. There is no intention (so that there is no doubt) of a new renaissance of CICtourGUNE, since the structure of such a centre – already commented by the adviser in that intervention on 16 February – exceeds the possibilities of the Basque administration. The research technician at Basquetour is the one who currently directs the studies. All information that should be part of an observatory that will function with the synergies of departments will be implemented, in coherence, in the reports and documentation to be prepared in an instant coordination framework; that is what is intended. Because an observatory is a structure that diagnoses what is needed, then it does and integrates it with other studies and information it has. There is therefore an approach; the department has an approach to the creation of an observatory. Tecnalia has maintained part of the data load of the INE, Eustat, AENA and Ports del Estado, and opened a website last year. And since we do not want to dispense with market intelligence, nor can we be content with what is there, we need to reorganize that work on the part of the department in what can actually be called an observatory. That is the goal to be achieved by the department and by the Basque Government, and I say this so that there is no doubt, so that there is no doubt either. The original amendment put forward by the Basque Socialists together with the Basque Nationalist group seemed to us to be more correct and in line with the initiative originally put forward by the People's Group, because we followed the outline set out in the proposer's motion, and that is why we urged the Basque Government to ensure that, within the framework of the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption 2017-2020, specifically on the axis of promoting a new model of governance and management, and in the initiative "launching a model of monitoring and management of tourism", the establishment of a model of tourist observatory adapted to the needs of the department and coordinated by the specific statistical body of the department is defined and promoted. We urged the Government to provide the observatory with the necessary technical and human resources to respond effectively to the requirements of a competitive public tourism intelligence system, recovering tools and services outsourced by means of the specific statistical body of the department. And we also wanted to establish fast and agile mechanisms for the exchange of information with the sector between the different actors and the administration, and to be able, in the end, to address the challenges facing tourism in an effective and efficient way. And we were presented with a compromise proposal yesterday afternoon, to which the Socialists made a series of notes and corrections that have been accepted and supported (three of them, not the four we had raised). We Socialists believe that with this agreement we continue to bet, as the Councillor pointed out, on a public system of competitive tourism intelligence, and the Basque Tourist Observatory must be provided with technical and human resources so that it can provide an effective response to it. And these are important and remarkable elements, those that we put forward in that proposal for agreement or consensus, those are the elements that we in the Basque Socialists consider to be the most remarkable in the interest of reaching an agreement. Mrs García said that it seemed that the government parties had had a process of reflection. Well, I believe that the parties that we support the government and also the political groups themselves that are part of the opposition, because they have also changed and it is not the same proposal that they put forward today as they did a week ago regarding the Trade Observatory. To Mr Casanova, Euskal Herria Bildu, tell him that the government has never intended or wanted to blind anyone or anything, or to deal with anything. It was very clear that moving towards a new model of the Observatory was a need for management itself. It was not intended and was not intended to eliminate any instrument in the management of the Observatory; what was intended was not to continue with inertia when changes in management could be made and adapted to the new times. Therefore, what the Department wanted was to do and give a yes to the improvement in management, to that improvement in data creation and to process them. You said that the Government's attitude to leadership was opposing: rather than leadership, I'm sorry, there was talk of authoritarianism. Not at all. What is done is to intervene, act, contrast, debate, diagnose together with the tourism sector, in this case. Not at all authoritarianism. Everything is debated, everything is processed and in the end it ends up with what the majority think. Therefore, yes to leadership, of course, for nothing authoritarianism. And in the matter of, I believe, with the trade unions issue, perhaps what happens to you is that it is a sin of urgency and the same you have a problem really with what you approved last week regarding trade unions and how to deal with the fact that they are against the outsourcing of services and you, however, supported that outsourcing of services last week. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u77	Yes, thank you, Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. Well, I think we have a fourth chapter here today, I don't know how we are or how we are in a miniserie, but at least I think we're going to end up with this fourth chapter, and I think we're fine. At least I think we'll end up fine, and we'll end up with a deal. I won't repeat all that I've said here, because we've had the last discussion about the Commercial Commercialization Oservatory, but I'm not going to repeat them all. It is clear: We're in the same department where we saw an interpelation around the Commercium Observatory, then another interpelation around Turism Observatory, and then a motive. And I think everyone has a great relationship. The other day I commented on where the statistical organ came from, why, the laws and all, I will not repeat them, but I will bring back decreto de Land, because I think it's important, because here the chairman of the office said himself: In the structure decree of this Department which, as I said in the previous debate, is a department of new creation, that brings together areas that come from different departments and that, therefore, has to be reorganized, because in the decree tells us that it is intended to focus management on the promotion of tourism, hospitality and commerce, to encourage their synergies and improve their interrelationship with the area of consumption. This involves coordination of all areas at the senior level of the Department, which will enable the formulation of cross-cutting policies geared to the demands of society, both of consumers and users, as well as of businesses and professionals, and the optimal use of available human and material resources. I therefore believe that there are two important keys here, which are the ones that lead us to the end to this agreement and to this joint approach: one, which is the transversality, the joint work of the different areas of the Department in order to be able to take advantage of the synergies that are generated between them; and then the exploitation, the optimal exploitation of the human and material resources available, which I believe is also unbalanced. Todo esto, decía el señor Casanova en el debare del otroía, habla de la impancia del dato, and I think it is very important but very important how to place these facts, how they are analysed, how they are used one with another, and how they are managed. Therefore, I insisted on the importance of the specific statistical organ the other day, but it does not deny that it has other things. But with that, I coordinated around it. And how a specific statistical organ is contained in every department, so that this or this transverseness would be confirmed in all things that occur in the department. Therefore, I again place importance in this statistical organ, but with it all the Oberservatorys and the organ-organizations. Mrs Corcuera also said, she stressed our first motion, which I also believe is well anchored in the first proposal made to us by the People's Party (Mrs López de Ocariz), referring to the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption, and anchoring the issues raised there on axis 7, in particular in initiative 28. In any case, I think it is to be congratulated that we have reached this very broad agreement, as I said. I believe that we have finished this series or this season of chapters on this issue with a happy ending, and I thank everyone for the willingness that has been and encourage the Department to work, as I am sure they will, in order to comply with this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Passing on to the answers' turn, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u79	Yes, thank you, Madam President. If you will allow me, from the bench, to thank the groups for their willingness to reach this agreement, and now we have to follow the work of the Department, to see if the various initiatives and activities of the Department itself, of the Tourism Bureau, are actually being implemented, as we have agreed. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u80	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Anybody else want to talk? Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Esquillian Team, Podemos, EH Collect, Eukal Sozialists, and Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u81	So this is based on a medium-conditioning correction. Five point in theme list: "A proposition as well as a parlamentation of Podemos, concerning the extraordinary amount of money that has been paid in the foru-gauns. Discipline and final resolution. In turn for the difficult proposal of the team, Mr. Bollain, representative of the Podemos, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Good morning, everyone. Well, gobernukide asko ez daude gaur hemen, Eta gehien bat Azpiazu jauna, who will be in charge of directing that rain of millions; a pity it is not here. The objective of the initiative that we bring today from Elkarrekin We can raise something very simple. He called for the Basque Government to devote the increase in collection from last year to social spending. We ask that the surplus resulting from that increase, once the reduction of...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u83	Silence. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u84	Once the reduction in financial liabilities has been discounted, it is intended for employment policies, education and public health, equality between women and men and, ultimately, social spending. And it is a proposal that is based on a premise of responsibility, but a well-understood responsibility, that does not put budgetary stability at risk and that does so by prioritising people. Sometimes the dogma of budgetary stability has been explained through a metaphor or rather through a myth, that of Ulises and the sirens. The mermaids embellished the sailors with their music, who jumped off the boat attracted by the beauty of their voices, and ended up drowning in the waters. According to the myth, Ulises convinced his sailors to cover their ears, while he tied himself to the mast; he wanted to listen to the music that had led to the death of so many sailors, but without running his own fate. Today in Euskadi, in the Ministry of Finance, in Brussels some believe Ulises; Montoro, Juncker, Mr Azpiazu believe Ulises. They believe that families, citizenship are beautiful sirens to which we should not listen, to which we should ignore in order to save the ship. They believe that their task, their mission is to ignore them, and in this they strive, to cover the ears of their companions and their companions, to resist their righteous demands. But, as in the myths, the only teaching is that Ulises, by his own decision to tie himself to the mast, cannot change the direction of the ship, nor can he communicate with his own sailors to do so for him. The ship today goes without direction, it has no direction, because some – who think they are heroes – have decided to leave the ship, that of all and all, at the mercy of the sea and the wind, at the mercy of the invisible hand of the markets, the invisible hand that governs the common good of this government. Today I wanted to ask Mr Azpiazu not to be Ulises, and I ask him to be Prometheus, to choose to rebel against what they impose on him from Brussels and Madrid, and to be the protector of Basque citizenship. And today, with that proposal, we have a simple intention, which is to give a democratic and social sense to the purpose of the surplus of what Basque citizens themselves have paid in taxes. Basque citizenship wants budgetary stability that is not in conflict with social investment. He does not want cuts in public services to be kept hidden. Basque citizenship wants something very simple, and it is that the taxes it pays, that the wealth it creates with its effort and its work is intended to improve its life, to improve education, to improve health, social inclusion policies and equality policies. And it is that just as you are applying austerity, it only translates into prioritizing the payment of the debt, maintaining the cuts and a misunderstood austerity. And yes, I know that these issues have been discussed on several occasions in this House. In particular, we have also talked about article 135, that famous article of the Constitution that was changed with night and lightness, which was followed by another law that we have also discussed long and extended, which is the Budget Stability Act. The law with which Mr Azpiazu's friend, Mr Montoro, has tied his feet and hands to municipalities and institutions. Many institutions less one, this one, the Basque Government, curious, right? Or perhaps it is not so curious in view of the pacts of the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party. The Basque Government is one of the only institutions in the State that has been bypassing the Budget Stability Act year after year without any warning from Mr Montoro. How curious, and I say that it will be because the People's Party approves of you the budgets and you – the PNV – approve of Mr Mariano Rajoy. Well, I propose to Mr Azpiazu something very simple: since he skips it, since it has no effect to skip it for you, do it to give a joy to the Basque families. Do it to help them a little in their day to day, in which they arrive more freed at the end of the month. And that is precisely and simply what we are asking for, that what those same families have paid in taxes is invested in improving their day-to-day lives, in improving the public services they use, the social policies they ask for. But look, we're not even asking them to neglect debt reduction; we're not even asking them to do that. We ask you to improve public education or Osakidetza with the millions of euros that the Basques have paid. And today it is many families who remain appalled by the crisis and I know that this has been heard many times, but I would ask Mr Azpiazu to listen, that it is not those sirens that he fears, that it is the data of his own Government that I am going to say below. Let's put on the table the needs of 12,000 people who need Income Guarantee Income to supplement their poverty pay in garbage jobs. Let us put on the table the needs of our elders, those who have been on the street for months demanding decent pensions, and I know that Mr Azpiazu would tell me that he cannot decide on pensions, but he can do so through the Income Guarantee Income and thus assure them a dignified supplement to our elders. Let us put on the table the situation of those thousands of families who do not enjoy this Basque oasis of the Government, that mirage in which this Government has settled. In the real Euskadi there are more than 290,000 households, I repeat, 290,000 households, one third of the total households, which have no active persons. In the Basque oasis we have more than 116,000 people who want to work do not find work Why not have a portion of that excess tax paid by Basque citizens revert directly to these families? And Mr. Azpiazu created the expectations. I don't know if you remember today Mr. Azpiazu when he predicted that rain of millions of the quota, or if you remember with what frivolity he sold that pact, or if you remember what the Basque citizen said to you. For we ask Mr Azpiazu to fulfill his word and to fulfil the expectations which he himself has generated. And let it fulfill, because the ramplones budgets that have been approved for the year 2018 will not reach these people and these families. Budgets that did not bring precisely a rain of millions to public school, and even today, despite Mrs Uriarte's braveries, are below what was inverted before the crisis. Where is this government's bet on public education? And I'm asking for the public, because the private one has the millions, and in what way. They have even reached the Opus schools that segregate the student by sex. And there is another collective also, which is not exactly small, which is more than half of the Basque population, are women, who have not seen nor seen any trace of the rain of millions of Mr Azpiazu. Is it not a priority for this government to invest in the struggle of an equal society? Isn't it a priority to put an end to macho violence? Already said the lehendakari – now absent – that it was not and it seems that it was a lapsus. Well, show Basque women that they really do put all the resources in Euskadi to put an end to the macho violence. Stop making big statements, institutional statements and photos on March 8th, and demonstrate your commitment to facts, budgets, spending the excess of what Basque citizens paid, making them live in full freedom. And it is that in the face of these issues that I have put Mr Azpiazu on the table, this government prefers to spend the money on Euskotren locomotives, when they missell to Ecuador those they bought not so many years ago. And I don't know whether Mr. Azpiazu put a tweet back then or not, but I do recognize that in propaganda this government moves like a fish in the water. "Lakua's total surplus will be around 600 million," Deia. "Vitoria's Executive received 729 million, more than it had estimated in budgets," El Correo. I wonder: where are those millions? Where will the more than EUR 700 million be allocated? To mega-infrastructures that don't solve people's problems? At expenses that aren't what citizens want and demand? Well, in Elkarrekin, we can make it clear. As the Basque Government continues with its austere and neoliberal logics, we prefer to prioritize social investment. That is why we have brought this non-legislative proposal into this House today. I insist on the idea, because it's very simple. That what Basques and Basques have paid in taxes in 2017 is destined to what that citizenship demands, that it be done also after discounting what is necessary to amortize debt, that it is destined to four priority axes and common sense. The first is to strengthen employment policies. It's time to put the cat's rattlesnake, it's time to respond to the more than 116,000 unemployed people registered in Lanbide at the end of 2017: 116,000 people who want to work and don't find where or how. The second is the financing of public education. A public education of quality, free of charge and for all citizens. Look, we're not like the People's Party you're talking to. We're not going to ask them to give money to private schools, or Opus schools, much less. We are not going to ask 13 million euros for Opus Dei as the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party accepted in the Budgets of 2018. No, no, We ask that public money, which belongs to all Basques and Basques, be used to strengthen the Basque public education system, the education of everyone, simple, direct and clear. In Elkarrekin We can't hide, and we hope you won't either. We hope that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, especially the Basque Socialist Party, will really get wet by the public school. And quiet, Mrs. Corcuera – which I think you will be leaving – that this time we are not going to deepen as the previous time in your lack of coherence with the public school, because it was already quite embarrassing to see you last week renounce your electoral promises with the publication of the Oncological. Thirdly, to invest in equality, in real and effective equality between women and men. There is a serious contradiction between the Government's statements and the real resources allocated to equality and the eradication of machist violence. Unfortunately, in the 2018 Budgets the picture has been even worse than in the 2017 Budgets. Investment in equality policies and against macho violence is only 0.21% and there is no trap or cardboard. A figure totally insufficient to reverse a violation of rights that directly affects half of the Basque population. And that is why we ask that some of Mr Azpiazu's millions of rain rain in the area of the fight for equality between men and women. Last axis. Fourth: Strengthening social inclusion policies for citizens, strengthening social services, strengthening housing policies. In short, fighting for a more just society. Do you really have in mind a better destination for the 2017 surplus than these four axes? Can there really be any party in this House that does not agree to earmark the 2017 surplus revenue for these four axes? I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of the amendment we have negotiated with Euskal Herria Bildu, to vote on people, to vote to strengthen employment policies, the Basque public school, equality between women and men, and social inclusion. And I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSE, I will remind you of what one of your barons, one of your leaders, Mr Fernández Vara, said, and I read literally: "We are in charge of the public services of our country, the seams no longer hold. You can't square the bills at the expense of unravelling people's lives." That is why I ask you to vote in favour of using the surplus to square the lives of people who really need it the most. And be consistent, consistent with the word given the citizenship that voted for them; consistent with their principles and at least demonstrate that they have left political principles. And don't do it because we asked you from Elkarrekin Podemos. Do it for public education, do it for women, do it for employment and do it, ultimately for the social cohesion of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Passing the corrections to the teams, Mrs. Pindo, representative of the EH Collectors, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u86	Good morning again. Well, today we have discussed the subject which Podemos has brought together in one way or another in this legislature, and it is certain that the Basque People have in other ways brought in the proposals of this subject in several ways. We have made a correction, and it is a very clear and very correct correction: a social investment always before the payment of the debt. We clearly see that people and their well-being require the supreme approval of the government which governs public funds, which is our simple proposition. It is true, as I have said, that we have often brought this matter into several other ways, and that the deficit is, what is the bounds of the debt, and so many subjects, and we have several times laid our priorities upon the table from the United States of Euskalia. It is true also that every time we have brought it, we have been told that there is nothing to do with it, in some words. And today, the proposal that Elkarrekin has brought We can, once again, be a way of putting on the table one of the great injustices of budgetary management in which we are plunged, or whatever you want. Because the reality is that we have a surplus in 2017. Another thing is why there is that surplus. Because it's not all for collection, as we all know. I am not going to begin here to explain what is the reason for that surplus and, therefore, what treatment should I have, because, if it had not been given in the 2017 financial year, it would have been a standard income – let's say currents – over 10 years, and then they could have been destined. Therefore, someone should have negotiated that otherwise. But there are many issues behind this. Mr Bollain has put on the table the famous and well-known amendment of 135, sponsored by the People's Party and the Socialist Party. But from that came – as he rightly said – the Law of Budgetary Stability. The Budget Stability Act, in which the Basque Nationalist Party abstained, abstained. And of that law of budgetary stability we have found a posteriori many other things, such as the spending ceiling that has to be approved in each exercise, and in 2017 it was approved, as everyone knows, in July, and also the Basque Nationalist Party supported it. Thus, when we sometimes see that there are such superfluous ones, and when the representatives of the Government, or of the Aldudians, say that they are the boundaries of Europe, and confine them to ours, I do not know, that space to function, or to function, must sometimes be reminded that they have placed such difficulties themselves. I, when this surplus for the Basque Government was presented with a lot of money, and also the increase in collection and, well, this whole issue at the Basque Council of Bonds, do not have to forget the words of the deputy general of Álava, a few days later, saying that, of course, there were tightnesses marked and imposed by the Spanish Government that did not allow the money to be spent where it was wanted. Of course, the deputy general of Álava forgets that these narrow lines marked by the Spanish Government, which, as I have said here many times, are marked by the Spanish Government and not by Europe, as more than one and more than two want us to believe, because Europe marks them to the Spanish Government for their economic situation and for their failure to fulfil their European duties as a Member State. The deputy of Álava forgets that these constraints have had the collaboration, on the one hand, of the Socialist Party, because he was currently a member of Mr Ramírez's Government, because he sponsored the change of 135 of the Constitution and, on the other hand, the Basque Nationalist Party, because he abstained from the law of stability and endorsed the spending ceiling of last year. Therefore, to me when some politicians take their hands to mind on issues that they themselves have self-limited, for, truth, I don't know if I get the laugh or the shame of others, honestly. Podemos, to the point of the proposition which Podemos had made together, at last made a middle course, the least, I said in the first sentence: and this has been one of our maxims, in all the propositions which have been made about this subject, that the tax belongs to politics, that is to say, to the state of debt, to the political government of the public. We have said this several times, but they always tell us that our proposals are not possible, that there are litites, I don't know what, I don't know who. Look, these days, when we are told – as I said before – the theme of the narrowness imposed on us by the State, doing a little, as that said, archaeology in the documentation, I have remembered that I always told the former Councillor of Economics – and the current one too – and this week that we are in the week of the 140th anniversary of the Economic Concert, I think it is also good to put it on the table. The Economic Concert also has financial issues, but they are forgotten, but they are forgotten. Or what's even worse, we come here with supposed agreements on deficit limits, debt limits and already, well, the spending ceiling... we don't even talk about it, better. Because they agree and vote in the Congress of Deputies, with agreements that you know – or should know – that you should agree, but always, coincidences of life, as he would say, are mere coincidences, the same limits that Mr Montoro imposes on communities of common regime. Therefore, well, since this is the week of the anniversary of the Economic Concert, I think it is also appropriate to remind those who claim to defend the Economic Concert that financial issues are also in the Economic Concert and you are systematically forgotten, or forgotten or well forgotten. Perhaps sometimes you can forget them, because this is how you maintain that halo, as Mr Bollain has said, of austerity, those policies sponsored by European entities, which in the end have been to impoverish European citizens, to impoverish Basque citizens and to limit the possibility of government leadership, because hori dago ere mahai heurean, Gobernu honek lack daukana: leader publikoa. He lacks a public leader, and he lacks it in this matter too. It's 739 million and they're divorced, I'm afraid. Unfortunately, they're divorced. And nothing has gone so far as the welfare of society, very little, very few. Why? Because there are other priorities. But once again they will say that they are the work of the outward homes, and are the bounds they have taken from them; but it is reality that the members of this government, in some way or another, have approved them, have accepted them, and protected them. If, then, money cannot be directed here, to the point where it ought to be directed, which we think ought to be directed (persons and well-beings), it is because the parties which belong to this government in years, have protected different laws for years to be so. And so don't do ignorant things now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. It's the turn of the teams that haven't issued the corrections. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Bollain, the councillor is not here because the money you tell him to spend has already been spent. So let us say in the debate that, of course, you are rather unconcerned, among other things, because this debate is coming late. Because since October of last year, from before, I'm sorry, since last summer we already knew that we were going to have higher incomes. And when the budgets for this year were presented in November, of course, we asked how and to what these revenues were going to be allocated, and there already the advisor explained to us that it was to advance basically this year's expenses, apart from the debt, which was carried more than half, or by amortization, or by not issuing the expected debt. Plus other social investment expenses that you say. But your proposal is very generic, because this government, it's all social investment, everything. Of course, it's just that, I hear the groups that support the government and I hear them too, it's all social investment. So, if we talk about education, we talk about education, because the rest of the money, because it has also gone to parties on these issues. Everything is social investment in this budget, there is nothing other than social investment, because real investment has long since, in the end, this government forgot that it existed and could promote job creation. Let's see, in your speech, both of you have told us about the debt, the spending rule, the Stability Act. Which, in principle, little or nothing, or almost nothing, had to do with what the higher income is spent on what we have had in that year. But, of course, Mrs Pinedo, this is that we have invented certain financial rules and that the deficit of more than 3% – I think you have said – that they touch from Brussels... It's not that they touch you, it's that, let's see... me, let's see... that we've all been here a long time. These rules were created when the euro was founded. So the countries that wanted to be in the euro had to comply with a series of rules, of course, of course. And the 3% deficit was already there. And when some country goes over 3%, they give it a touch, as you say, and if it goes over a lot, they intervene. And if not, you have the option of leaving the euro, leaving the euro. So it is not that the PP or, in this case, the PSOE have invented the Stability Act; no, it is that we are in favour of being in Europe and in the euro. There are countries that do not want to be in the euro, but others, who are very close to you, and they said so, have not wanted to leave the euro. And I'm not going to set Greece another example, but come on, I mean, it's book, really, it's book. So, let's not cheat on the lonesome. They have brought us a proposal in which, in the end, I do not know what the expenditure ceiling of the state budgets has to do with the budgets of the Basque Government, or with what or what we spend the revenues we have here; I do not understand it. Now, there is one thing I have understood, because you have come to an end to a transaction in which there is no talk of any of this, nor of debt... Because in the initial proposal we were talking, in the Bildu amendment the opposite was said, and you have come to the transactional in which nothing is said, with which one is already perplexed. I congratulate you on your agreement. We don't know exactly what they think about the payment or not... Yes, of course, it is that the initial initiative said that part had to be allocated to that debt amortization. Bildu's amendment said that nothing about that, that social investment and debt first and last, and the agreement they have reached is: we do not talk about debt. But then the two of them come out here and 85 percent of the intervention has passed us talking about the Stability Act, the rule of spending... And in the end, I suppose I return to my initial speech: the advisor is not here, because that surplus money has already been spent.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u89	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u90	Yes, thank you, President, good morning again, Lehendakari. Let's see, the Basque Finance Council, which was held on 13 February, adopted various agreements, including the liquidation of the contributions of the outlaws for 2017 and the liquidation of the 2017 General Adjustment Fund. With regard to the winding-up of parliamentary contributions, there are several aspects to be highlighted. In 2017, the consolidated tax collection of outlaws was EUR 14,473 million, an increase of 11.8 % compared to 2016. This increase also collects or incorporates the revenue derived from the agreements of the Joint Committee on the Concert, incorporated the Adjustment Agreements of the Cup and which have also allowed the calculation of revenue for VAT adjustments. The overall increase in collection, if these latter issues had not been taken into account, would have been 5.5%. We took part in the General Budgets of Euskadi for 2017 of contributions from the foreign parliaments which increased by 0.3% compared to 2016 and thus were calculated as budgetary revenue. The 2017 harvest increases compared to 2016 by territories are 13% in Alava, 11.7 in Bizkaia and 11.3 in Gipuzkoa: a total of 106,226,400 euros more than the closure forecast. In the end, the final amount of the liquidation of the contributions of 2017 amounted to 9,833 million and this means a positive liquidation of 729,8 million more than initially or provisionally foreseen, which are the millions of the disagreements or the approach that they do here Podemos and Bildu. The Podemos proposal intended to allocate to social investment this surplus of collection, once the reduction of the financial liabilities was discounted, and the Bildu amendment proposed to use as a priority that increase of collection in social investment on the payment of the debt, and as Mr Damborenea said, here it is that by the art of birlibirloque, we make a cocktail and suddenly everyone here forgets the debt, which is bound by European regulations, and suddenly we propose that everything to social investment. And we say that the proposal of Podemos, the Basque Socialists say that the proposal of Podemos is late for this debate. Surely for the proposer this does not matter very much, because he has already achieved his task. You, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, registered this initiative on 2 February. The Basque Finance Council where the decisions were taken was held on 13 February. And by the time you raise this matter for debate, three plenary sessions have already passed; that is, you are going back late and wrong, and on top of that you are presenting a joint amendment with Bildu, which jumps to the chase of the current legality. Look, the Socialists established in the government agreement in November 2016 that we were going to be... We committed ourselves to having and doing responsible management; this was one of the principles for responsible and transparent economic growth. And we said that the economic management of the Basque Government and of all Basque institutions should be based on the principle of rigour and responsibility. We must maintain, Mr Bollain, the consolidation of finances, the commitment to the objectives of budgetary balance as a guarantee of economic sustainability, but also the sensitivity and commitment to the basic needs of people. That must remain the essential principle of the action of public institutions, and in those principles the Socialist Party remains, even if you do not like Mr Bollain. You claim that we do not guarantee essential public services, that we do not pay attention to or prioritize social policies as axes on which to build cohesion and quality of life in the Basque Country. You must be against the Socialists being in this. And finally, to make it clear to you, the Basque Socialists are committed to high-quality economic growth but which in no way encourages, in any case, social inequality. And hence the commitment of the Basque Socialists to address the consolidation of public accounts, economic and budgetary rigour, without undermining our level of well-being, essential public services, driving the productive economy and growth. We have committed ourselves, the Basque Socialists, to make it clear to you too, to consolidate a model of distribution of resources that will continue to guarantee the financial sufficiency of Basque public administrations. Because one thing is to preach, Mr. Bollain, and another is to give wheat, and you should not be giving wheat. And on these principles we acquired the Basque Socialists' commitment to maintain the public deficit target corresponding to Euskadi, to stabilise the level of Basque public debt in accordance with the objectives set by the European Union and reflected in the state stability plan. This consolidation of public accounts will be developed without affecting social policies or public services. That is our commitment, that of the Basque Socialists together with Basque Nationalists, in the government agreement. Black on white. So you are proposing a consensus amendment with Bildu right now, which makes it impossible for us to enter into a pact with you. It is absolutely impossible, because it is totally contrary to these principles which are already signed and sealed, Mr Bollain. That I believe you have made it bet, because small surprise if someone unmarried and approved the subject; you would have taken the scare of your life. But don't worry, don't worry, stay calm; the amendment that you have reached in agreement with Bildu will be put to the vote. From these principles, and from the essential commitment that I mentioned to you, we share the destination of the extra 729 million euros that result from the increase in the 2017 collection in investing them in 434 million euros whose destination will be the so-called financial transactions: the distribution was 266 million destined for a lower debt issue – to comply with the law –, 138 million euros to the increase of the remaining, which will serve for this possible social investment, 30 million euros more were destined for financial operations, such as the Basque Institute of Finance, which also takes advantage for social investment. And 295 million euros remaining to that amount of 729 million euros were allocated: 91, to compensate for the historical territories, that is, fora. You know for what? For the Basque municipalities. You know why? Because these had been retained and could not have had budgets, say, excessive or excessive or expansive to commit the needs closest to citizenship. Municipalities are the institutions closest to citizenship. 91 million so that the Basque municipalities have no problems in carrying out their government programs, in meeting the needs of the citizens. That is also Basque, also those in the municipalities, that is also citizenship and that is also social investment, Mr Bollain. 44 million were going to be used for the advance of the quarter of the 2012 pay to the Basque officials; it must be that that should not be recorded to you, or it should come out we do not know what drawer. And EUR 150 million would go towards spending on education, for scholarships, for universities, investments in mobility, investments in health... well, what else? With this application of the largest resources that was obtained with the 2017 collection surplus, we therefore promote a lower debt, and social investment is made, Mr Bollain; I know you do not like it, but social investment is made. Look, you were telling us Socialists: listen, practice consistency. Well, look, since we said in the election campaign and after the election campaign, the Basque Socialists said, Idoia Mendia, our secretary general, pledged that our seats would serve to improve the life of Basque citizens, to put the social agenda as a priority in government management. And in that coherence and in those principles, the Basque Socialists continue to find each other. That's what we did with the government agreement, and that's what we're doing, supporting and supporting this government as well. Others, while some of us were engaged, stopped being on the banner, others, as I say, entered this Parliament, made their partisan calculations and decided to prioritize their interests as a party or coalition in the face of having a real influence on the management of the government. They continued to be on the banner and decided that it would be others who would have to take on that challenge. Well, because the Basque Socialists are in that challenge, with a commitment to where those 729 million euros go or where they have gone, and others are still on the banner and making absolutely unrealistic consensual amendments that mean nothing, Mr Bollain, absolutely nothing, because they do not put the social agenda in reality. Today was headlined on February 2 in the media and point. And that's what interests you, who constantly comes to discuss issues that have already been in the press and good, to see if we give the Socialists a little bit and you already stay calm. Well, look, it's not gonna happen. We are satisfied with how public money is being managed. We are pleased that we have supported the 2017 and 2018 Budgets that you, on you, bear the burden of proof. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. There's a high cold from up there, and I've come to the throat this evening, but I hope I'll be able to discuss here in the last place. President. Pindo, Bollain, Damborene, Corcuera, and all the rest, good noon. I think that, Mr. Bollain, you have already spoken to me before you can tell me what you have to say. And to begin with, first, that you have introduced a quite out of time to the argument, and that you have been led away by it, and that Mrs. Pindo has carried you away, because you have followed you from the EH Collect for the time that you have been in this dispute of time. In your case, it's been your behavior to repeat the same discussion at the time of our earlier discussions, which has not been the principal object of your initiative in principle, if we consider what has been written. But, by the time you have repeated the argument, I shall only tell you at that time in our legislative circle the same answer in the emenout. And that's when you're talking about the legal team that you're making, that you've had the chance to reinforce the bill of budget by which you were introduced here, and you'd have refused to be a million if you'd wanted to, if you wanted to, an abscession in order to force the policies to do that. That's politics: to see what is his power, how far he can reach it, and what are the ends and prioritys which he places to advance. Having said that, zuk zurre diskurtsoa hasteko Ulises aipatzen izan dozu eta hor ibili zara. Ulises aipatzen izan dozu, Bollain jauna, and you referred to the siren songs. And what I have to tell you is that precisely that is what the Basque Government is trying not to fall: not to fall into the mermaid songs, whose aim was, with sweet sounds, to attract the ships in such a way that they could keep quiet, and the ship was sunk, the sailors were dying, and the captains and all those and all the people who were on the ships as well. And that's just what you want to hear. He answers your proclamations and follows them, and when he says, " pan para hoy and hambre para mañana." And with the policy for a short time to-day, it must be necessary for the infinite to join the public necessity that all of us are infinitely infinite, with the desire to satisfy it, to-morrow-to-morrow-to-morrow-to-morrow-to-morrow-to-morrow-to-to-morrow-to-to-morrow-to-to-morrow, to have difficulty in fulfilling public politics. And you've talked a lot before me, and telling me a lot of data about the money he's going to, you think it's interesting to talk about from fun about some data, you've seen the funniest change between 2009 and 2018. And I think that, if we were to make our political discussion, we could not deny it by facts. Then in our discourse we shall say what we please, but the data is data. Between 2009 and 2018, the budget has been increased at 3,1%, Mr. Bollain. And you could say: "este Gobierno se olvida de las familyes, se olvida de las pollicas sociales." Well, look what you did between 2009 and 2018 and expenses and investments. The first chapter, the worker's expenses, the workers, the 8th, the 1st. The second chapter, especially because of the promotion of the Osatical contract program, is up 8,7%. And this contract program is part of Osacic, the Basque Public Health System, which has been the rise of 19%. To the interest payment, 1859 million more is correct. We are often in society, and here we often do, not as long as we go from 2009 to 2018, from 90 to 2018: We were running 20 million in 90. And in the budget of 2018, he's turning over $500 million. In education, the functional expense has gone up to %2. And generally, the conversion of everybody else's functional charges has diminished 15%. And in investments, Mr. Bollain, the investments you criticize have been down to 2%. And all this is because you've got all the effort you've made during the crisis to help your patients, to strengthen the health system, to strengthen social expense, to strengthen the euscal education system. And to this, this is to say, that it is not so, but to deceive. Because if you're looking at the data, you're saying Facts. Esta es la verdad. But you're beginning to 'go to sea and hurry,' and try to make a discussion to strengthen a more serious discourse. You have only intended to bring here a debate in the spirit of making the demagogic speech that once and a thousand times from Elkarrekin Podemos are making, and EH Bildu has entered into the speech. It's a lie. It is a lie, because I am no longer going to say that it is not true, that the Basque Government has abandoned social policies. It has not done so over the years, as I have shown with the data, nor has it done so when it has determined what this excess of collection is going to be used for. Because for you the 5 million who have gone to the Department of Health for investments, in the Hospital of Eibar, in the Hospital of Urduliz, in the Hospital of Txagorritxu, in investments and equipment, is not social spending? Or do you think the 25 million that go to investment – are investments, in fact – in Alokabide for housing, are not social spending? In public housing for rent. Isn't that social spending? Or for you the more than 50 million that go to the Department of Education to finance the contract-program of the universities, to finance the Haurreskolak Consortium, to finance university and non-university scholarships,... is that not social spending for you? Is it not social spending for you to invest in Itelazpi to be able to renew the networks that are aging? Because some people, in some environments, need up-to-date networks and need to improve these investments so that the quality of life of Basques and Basques improves. But it draws my attention to the use of the term "locomotive" disparate to refer to an investment in mobility, infrastructure, to improve the safety of Basques and Basques as well. And I have told you before, that in the first act of public credit you have mentioned, and in which you have presented yourself, it was that which had been strengthened: "Eus New Law" demands "Euskal" to appeal to social conversion, subtracted from financial pills." And now, in the middle, it's gone to drown, it's gone. You must renounce it for yourselves, for you and yourselves are not the only object. We have this purpose and we have it clear. For the politics of the Euskok '09, when the fat cows are sober and they keep the money clean, that's why we've been able to go through 2009 between 2018 to face the crisis. Save in times of fat cows to resist the crisis in times of weak cows, and in no case respond to mermaid chants and fall into bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, which is nothing more than a short-lived policy. I'll give you the answer for the second round, for the rest of my time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Mrs Gorospe said that it is a lie that the Basque Government has abandoned its role in social policies. We want to talk about social policies and we want to talk about investment with social criteria and, take note, some alternative. The machine used at Basurto Hospital to perform diagnostic tests for cancer patients has been out of service for several weeks. I propose, for example, that we invest in a new one and not wait for the alms of Zara, of Inditex or of Amancio Ortega, and that we can do with the surplus there is. We continue to talk about investment with social criteria. Let's talk about the Miribilla school, to quote one; let's talk about the public school that has to close classrooms for leaks in the Bilbao of Guggenheim; let's talk about the school's situation with one of the lowest socio-economic indices in Euskadi. Let us also talk about the necessary investments in other centers, such as Jakintza in Donosti, or the barracks of Zipiriñe and Aldaialde. They have to choose, they have to choose what they like best, but we can keep talking about investment with social criteria. Let's talk about what this government will allocate in 2018 to policies of equality and against macho violence. You certainly remember, Mrs Gorospe, that million euros which the Basque Government has cut in the budget. Well. Why do we not reverse the cut-off and allocate, as we proposed, an additional EUR 25 million to fight against sexist violence? It would also be a detail on the eve of 8 March if you showed your commitment to equality and to 50% of the Basque population, which goes beyond a 15-minute break or partial initiatives that do not go beyond mere headlines. And we can also talk about how to invest with social criteria that surplus, putting on the table, for example, the industry in crisis. Let's talk about the money that is needed to save key companies from our economic fabric, in our regions most punished by the industrial crisis, such as the Naval in Sestao, such as Alpha in Eibar, or such as Reunited Tubes. And I would tell Mrs Tapia, but I'm sure Mr. Telleria can move it, that a storm is coming in this fundamental engine of Aiaraldea. And once again, Mrs. Tapia comes late and looks away. But it's not just that. Mrs. San José also intentionally denies us answers that are being given from her department to the multiple complaints to the Labour Inspectorate about work breaches, in Reunited Tubes, for example. And it's also true that money isn't everything. Nor do we want to see repeated situations like those that have occurred in multiple industrial enterprises, in Enkarterri, which have been located or closed to them, for example. You, Mr. Urkullu, will remember well. And cases like Xey in Zumaia, which Mrs Tapia knows well, and that, despite having an important package of actions, the government has been the last to know about the closure. And, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want the same to happen again. And that is why we also need to invest there and we need to do it with the best possible approach. We must keep the Basque industry also, maintain employment, maintain our productive fabric and our economy. And that's also social alternatives. Where will these more than EUR 700 million be allocated? Because the families, the people, the unemployed, the people we believe in education and the real public health as the engine of a society that lives together on equal opportunities, the women who see only 0.21% of the total budget allocated to fighting for real and effective equality between women and men, ask Mr Azpiazu. And they're really asking. And Mrs Corcuera said, and she tells us about the 44 million earmarked to pay 25 % of the outstanding overtime for officials. But are we crazy or what? Come on, we're talking about you working hard to fulfill, to fulfill, five years later, five years later, the rights of employees of the Administration. Come on, and this is not an expense to improve social policies. It is a right that this Government has stolen from workers for five years. Because it is more than EUR 700 million to be distributed at the will of Mr Azpiazu. Mrs. Corcuera said she's late. But it is that this government is promoting a debate in this Parliament on this issue, neither we nor we are talking about it. Because we had to be us and us, late, but we had to be us and us who brought him here. And you've been through negotiation. Because it sincerely reminds me of that February 14th with the full fiscal monograph, when there was not even the decency to call us to negotiate some resolution. But this time we are talking about more than EUR 700 million, more than EUR 700 million that this government is going to distribute at its leisure. A money that accounts for 40% more than it is allocated annually to income security income.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u95	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u96	Yeah. Money that accounts for 70% of the budget of the Department of Economic Development. And I finish, segituan, with Mrs. Corcuera. What is happening is that you have not been behind the banner for a long time or with the citizens and, unfortunately, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, have not been behind the banner for too long. And he talked about his seats and the wheat. Do you know what's going on? That you are the gas needed for the tractor that Mr. Rajoy left Mr. Esteban. And there, necessary, but submissive, the PSE remains part of the pacts between the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u97	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, must not speak. Mr. Basque Group of Popularene Damborene. Mr. Damborene, Turone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u98	Yeah. Just for mating, the tractors run on diesel.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u99	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u100	Someday they'll go to gas, sure; it'll come. Let's see, I keep saying that Elkarrekin Podemos has arrived at the debate late and bad, Mr Bollain. By the time you came with this proposal, the Basque Government had already done its duty. It is that all the decisions have already been taken, as I said at the beginning of my speech. And I have explained to you, paragraph by paragraph, point by point, what is going to be invested in those 729.8 million euros. I have given it in full description: 194 are going to dedicate themselves to the explicitly social issue, which is education, health, accessibility, the theme of the historical territories, the municipalities – I will not repeat it, because I spend my time – but come on, understandably few words are needed. Mr Bollain, you said: you are not consistent. Look, if in 2017 you hadn't supported 75% of the proposals made by the People's Party to the 2017 budgets... Hey, you come to me here and tell me you're consistent, and I'm sorry. Look, I recognize that I'm not going to get any pain in clothes. But of course, they supported 75%, who and the PP, that monster that's there, who now say "it's that you've given him gas." What do you mean, gasoline? Us? Tell Paul Iglesias and what his position was before Pedro Sánchez, and then we talk about what to talk about. But of course, you tend to disperse, don't you? I mean, this is the "all good." Look, a recommendation. I dare one. If you had participated in the Basque budgets from the outset by committing yourself, today you would be entitled to say why not one of those millions applies to this issue, to this other matter or to this issue. It's not worth coming here as the adalid of saving budgets, saving countries, saying the school such, the school which, because that, if you read the interventions of one of your colleagues, at the beginning of this legislature so came We can: "say this thing is wrong", "say this thing is wrong small", as if you were at the foot of the street and the others should be, I don't know, put in some office without leaving it. Well, look, no. We are also citizens, we are people, we live and we think about the street. And I say to him more: our commitment was to agree, to agree with the Basque nationalists on a government and to support a government, because we have said so since the beginning of the legislature and that is what we have been practicing, because the social agenda was necessary as a priority. And it's not worth coming here with the banner of "what a nice guy I am and how good I'm doing." No, no, no, get involved. Get involved, make some budgets, say you want these issues, make the budgets with the government and then demand. Then you can demand it, but not from the fact that you say, "How they don't want me..." No, no, that first 2017 was supporting the amendments of the People's Party and because "it's going to get ugly", I don't point to the pact. And then in 2018 we came because you had an internal process and you didn't go into discussing budgets. They just didn't even want to discuss them. Then it's not serious. And look, International Theatre Day is March 27th. And to me, do you know what's going on, that it seems to me that yours is a posture and it's overacting. So, stop bringing up debates that are already out of date. You seem to have been keen on the last budget debate. You're saying we haven't discussed it? Hey, to the satiety. From the budget debate there was the debate on the amendments to the whole and the debate on the partial amendments. It is not the fault of the Socialist Party or the Basque Nationalist Group that you did not come out altogether, I can assure you that. Then, there comes a time when, I tell you again, stop practicing overacting, because International Theatre Day, until March 27th, you can, in a way, fill us with a little bit. Hala, nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u102	Yeah, first round up without commenting on a part of the dot, EH Collector's response. But don't mention the answer, just to mention it, not to put it in the depth, but to let it go without putting it in the wrong way, when you're making mention of that collection of money that's more dominant, and it's like that, if it's been at Madrid's time, and if the ajusts became every year old, you'd think that you'd use the expression you're saying, "The way you're going to do, the nape de los capois corpores." And I think that you can interpret the doctrine when they are digested this time, and when they are guilty, it has been to suffer, to be indebted for the last years, and to repair, in some sort of way, that it would be to regularize, and to be carried away by that entrance every year. And talk about it, and accept this, Mrs. Pindodo, but I must tell you. Klaro, when you ask for the techo de gasto and all your speech about the law of stability in the past, and the financial downfall of financing, you've been able to answer the eternal, but it's reality, and here every one has his reality. Ah, a ha, ha, ha, ha! So long, so long! Remember, at that time, when we called Helena Franco the best student and student of Montoro, and how strictly to ask all the municipal councils of Gipulia to observe the law of stability and financial patience. That's reality. Mr. Bollain, do you mean "con total transparencia," but how can it be "se ha ha el reparto al antojo del señora?" It's not. It has been quite clear that the legislation in effect has been made, you know what it is, the legislation of legislation, the derivative of 1/2011, May 24th, a textbook of laws made in the case of the Eukadical Preservations, and the Euskal Autonomy of the Central Sector. And that's where you are, IV. In the chapter, to enable credits, the dysentery of the dysentery, not to read deut, because the others have no denra, and the 83th article is mentioned in what part of the legislation is to be fulfilled. And so it is done, but with all its transparency. The Basque Committee of the First Communities was the 11th of October, and then they took the 91 million, addressed to the councils, and accepted the 10 million for the supply funding. On the 20th of October Mrs. Pinedo asked the chief physician here to ask him why he'd be able to correct the money from the VAT adjustment. Ask questions, and the chief physician answered. We had a discussion here on November 2nd, and it was the law of the budgets in New York, 2017 to change a bill to pay the workers for that part of their pay. On December 5, he had been admitted to the Department of Health, the Board of Education, and the Governor's Department, which he would have left at the Castle of Itel. Here's the Decree, 260. Decree, and that is where you determine exactly what they are correct. In December 19, barriro, in another council of government, and here you have the Decret published in all its light, and also I (in the open air) take out the whole of this word, "that all this is transparent, and that you can get it easy to get it." After that, here on the 13th of February, there was the Basque Committee of the United Nations of the II, and from that time on, it was clear and clear to say: They're going to remove 433,000 debts from them, part of them will be transferred to financial corporations, 30 million accepted egoana, and others to rehabulsion. All the clear and clear, keep the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together for Podemos and EH Collection's medium correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-01.u104	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, I shall read an institutional expression, an institutional representation of the world's Day of strange diseases: 'It is not March 1st, this is February 29th, the World Day of strange Diseases. "Let's build it to-day," the motto of this day reminds us, and the Basque Parliament has done his thing. It is the commitment of all social legislators to know, learn, and cultivate the problem of diseases which are not very common in society, in order to obtain the universal and integrated access of the persons and their families. "In Europe, it is considered as a disease of little prevalence that affects less than five in 10,000 people. According to some institutions, they may affect 6% of our neighbouring countries, but the epidemical productions are very rare, so it is very difficult to know whether these calculations are correct and even Eukadin to be applied. "The Basque Parliament considers that it is essential to continue to ensure equitable access to life-saving medicines and health products for rare diseases, to carry out periodic reviews and to continue improving access to services and services such as rehabilitation and psychological care, the basic common portfolio of the national health system, to facilitate referral, authorization by inspection, to all persons affected by rare diseases, and to support the creation of new centres, services and reference units for integrated multidisciplinary care. "It is necessary to promote research and continue to promote both early diagnosis measures and the incorporation of new disease detections, while continuing to improve the route for rapid diagnosis and to continue to provide emergency services and primary care services with information on rare diseases in the respective reference centres. "All this on the basis of the involvement of the institutions in the development of the Rare Diseases Action Plan, ensuring the care needs through the inclusion of requests in the cross-border health mobility directive. "Eus Actual law requires that the singular peculiarities of rare disease should be considered in order to adapt to calmude, to speed up the transfers of dependence, and reduce the access to the work-world. It is also necessary to guarantee education and education and the resources of education in order to respond to the special wants of students with strange diseases. To increase the necessary co-ordination of those departments which have a right to do so, to respond to the wants of society, education, and health." As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and forty o'clock in the afternoon.
