ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Quiet, please. First point in theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: "Motion, Edurne García Troublembe, introduced together as members of the Podemos team, is about to face the violence of the sport. "As far as the Parlamentarian Society has made it, I'm talking about making an announcement on the sporting violence of Euskal Autonomy in Elegia." The call for the proposed team, Mrs. García Troublembie, is your word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u1	Mila esker, Madam President. Good morning to all the women parliamentarians. Today it is up to us again to discuss the prevention of violence in sport, following the call we made on 2 March at the last full session. Indefiniteness and lack of concreteness were the general focus in the answers that we obtained from Mr.Zupiria. The absence of activity of an organ which, in theory, should be a useful and effective tool for eradicating violence in sport in the Basque Country is unacceptable. We are still not aware of the reasons and reasons why the Basque Council against Violence in Sport, Kirolalde, has no activity, because it is clearly a useful and effective body for the promotion and development of preventive measures to help combat violence in sport, and it also has the participation of all representatives and agents of the Basque sports sector. However, the reality is very different: it is unknown when it met for the last time; its composition has not changed since 2013; there has been no activity since 2012, and no annual memoir has been published since 2011. It is, in short, a ghost organ, abandoned by the last two Basque governments, both led by Mr Urkullu as lehendakari. The episodes of violence...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u2	Please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u3	... that take place at the dawn of some sporting events related to high-competition men's football are a contrasted reality. We have already mentioned in this House all those serious episodes that have occurred in recent years, in the three Basque capitals; four of them occurred during this parliamentary term, five if we count on what happened yesterday. In the last year alone, between February 2017 and February 2018, there have been several occasions when there have been major incidents related to professional football matches in Euskadi. We are concerned, and we are very concerned, about the exponential increase in the outcry of hatred and violence that comes after the holding of a sporting event and, specifically, in the field of men's football of high competition. And just yesterday, without going any further, during the course of the match that they played in San Mamés the Athletic of Bilbao and the Olympique of Marseille we again witnessed violent aggressions and behaviors. It is shameful that a minority use sporting events to unleash their frustrations and misunderstood rivalry, with the excuse of male football. Yesterday's incidents resulted in several injuries, two of them security guards, one of whom had a cut in his neck. In addition, something had to fail when inside the football field itself several ultras managed to introduce flares with which several people who had come to see a simple football match were injured. It should also be added that one of the ultras had already been sentenced in 2008 to three years and six months in prison for assaulting and throwing chairs against agents in a match that faced the Olympique de Marseille against the Atlético de Madrid. We wonder what kind of preventive measures allow such an individual to continue to have access to football fields. The high-level male football industry and its economic benefits and interests seem to be above the right of any citizen to enjoy the positive aspects of attending a sporting event. This situation is unsustainable, and, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we understand that the involvement of all sports clubs, federations and associations to initiate a deep reflection and take effective measures and initiatives that can be exemplary before society, to banish in this form of sports spaces expressions, attitudes and violent behaviors, is fundamental. The various actors, presidents of clubs involved in the episodes of violence or the Football Federation itself, have indicated that the measures must be tightened and the problem of violence in sport must be addressed from the awareness and awareness of all those who practice or enjoy football as amateurs, in this case, and, of course, the involvement and coordination of the institutions, and of the measures that are promoted by the Basque Council against Violence in Sport, Kirolalde. And, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we understand that this reflection must also be carried out from the Department of Physical Activity and Sport, to which belongs the department headed by Mr. Zupiria. Beyond the necessary interventions of Ertzaintza, the prevention of this type of phenomenon is fundamental. We have defended, in other interventions, the value of sport and physical activity as a source of health, integration, cooperation and overcoming, which facilitates social cohesion and serves as a tool for combating inequality, violence, exclusion or misunderstood rivalry. To this end, it is essential to adopt strategies to prevent radicalization and to exclude all forms of violence around sport, and more so within professional sport, since in the society in which we live, what happens before, after and during football matches, mass sport par excellence, is reference and example in the eyes of citizens. We ended our intervention the other day by demanding that attending a high-level men's football match or any other sporting event should be a constructive, healthy, enriching and safe experience, where sport, overcoming, inclusion, cooperation and play itself are the real protagonists, and violence and its different manifestations are completely excluded. And that is where we are going to draw up the motion that we have tabled and that we are debating today. Finally, we have reached an agreement with EH Bildu to table a joint compromise amendment. This Parliament must express its rejection of any violent attitude and behaviour that is committed with the excuse of sport, both that which is practiced in basic sport and that of elite or high competition and, specifically, around men's professional football. We need to be able to claim the positive, healthy and enriching aspects of both practicing and enjoying sports activities in our autonomous community. And we have to do this, as we have said before, by developing prevention strategies and relying on the collaboration and coordination of all the actors involved. The active participation of sports institutions, associations and bodies is essential to work on the premise that violence in sport does not cease to be one of the reflections of violence in society at large. It is a problem of all, that we can only fight among all. Awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns are essential and very necessary tools. The body of the Basque Government responsible for implementing these measures is the Basque Council against Violence in Sport, Kirolalde, a participatory instrument for the study and prevention of the different forms of violence in sport. However, as has already been demonstrated in our inquiry, this body is currently inactive, and in seven years no measures, strategies, campaigns and actions have been promoted to ensure that violence is not the news in the context of the celebration of sporting events in Euskadi and, more specifically, in high-level men's football. We ask, from Elkarrekin Podemos, to activate and potentiate this tool as soon as possible. The task of the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy – which belongs to the Basque Council against Violence in Sport – is to carry out a diagnosis of the situation and to begin by drawing up a detailed study on the characteristics, evolution, causes and consequences of violence in sport, in particular taking into account the latest episodes of violence linked to professional male football, as well as a comprehensive plan to combat violence in sport, which incorporates effective measures both in relation to prevention and in dealing with it. Both, within six months, will have to be presented to the Committee on Culture, Euskera and Sport for in-depth discussion. Clearly, we're not complaining about anything weird. In Euskadi there is a reality in which incidents of violence in sporting events are increasing, and it is necessary to get to work and take action. However, Kirolalde's activity has not been promoted, the membership of the committee has not been renewed, and effective measures against violence in sport have not been taken. Worse still, we have not been given any explanation in this House of the reasons and reasons why the Basque Council against Violence in Sport does not work, following the mismanagement carried out by the councillor, despite the fact that during his exercise as a councillor (Mr. Zupiria, who was responsible for this matter) there have been at least four serious incidents involving men's professional football matches, five of which took place yesterday in San Mamés. On the other hand, sports federations and entities, and high-level football clubs in particular, must open a deep reflection on whether it is acceptable for ultra-groups to continue to be part of their hobby, and whether, in the face of repeated violent attitudes and behaviours, permanent internal disciplinary measures must be taken. It is unacceptable that those who break the rules of the game and rely on sport to develop violent behaviors and attitudes are not subject to exemplary measures. Let's get to work to prevent and eradicate violence in sport in Euskadi. We have the tools and we only lack the political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr Barrio, the representative of the Basque Group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u5	Thank you, President. Egun on lehendakari; advisers, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Well, my group, after the events of last day in Bilbao, after the Athletic Party against Spartak, wanted to do one thing: it wanted to move, with the non-law proposal we presented the next day, the debate on violence in sport to the Basque Parliament. And we wanted to do so in a twofold area, and certainly as will be seen in this plenary: the area of security, which will then be dealt with, but in the area of strictly sporting matters and of the competences and political debate that we can also have in this House regarding violence in sport. That was the triggering event, but, logically, Mrs García has already remembered, too, there have been many more. But also in line with the field of sports and certain conclusions and analyses and possibilities that we can analyse in this House, as we have discussed so many other issues, because they are part of our competence and of the competence, no doubt, of the Basque Government. We have succeeded in this claim, because in the compromise amendment we have signed, we have managed to involve the Basque Government in the drafting, after a series of steps and before the end of this year, of a document as a communication, which will be transferred to this Basque Parliament and which we will undoubtedly be discussing in the Committee on Culture and Sport. We too agree with the proposal and the wording basically of Mrs García's compromise amendment. I believe that we could certainly have made a definitive compromise effort among all of us on our non-legislative proposal, on your motion, on the amendments that have been signed... But, in any case, well, it seems that this is not going to be possible, but I also say that the end we wanted to bring this debate to the House, after the work of the government to analyse these circumstances and the incidence of violence in sport, I think it is achieved. That is to say, this plenary can be a good starting point for this analysis that we can carry out from Parliament. We have already asked this in the question that we have asked in the past full of control of the Councillor of Culture and Sports: we have to deepen much in this phenomenon, in that phenomenon, moreover, which revolves around certain sports shows, basically. Violence in sport has other expressions, but well, that phenomenon that revolves around certain sporting shows, with certain paraphernalia and associations, that revolve around the practice of that violence... and now that social networks are also channel and transmission belt, so much more, and that is all part of a perfectly rejectable culture and that, of course, Parliament will have to analyze and manifest that rejection and the measures or actions that can probably be taken. In addition, we raise and analyze it from the point of view of sport, and of those news and negative visualizations because of the impact these situations have on girls, children, young people, who have in sport and who have permanently placed their eyes, their eyes, their eyes, their attention on what they are referring to today. On this subject, then, and at this time and in this debate, we do not yet want a thorough debate now, but a parliamentary debate with a document, with proposals and with a required analysis from the Basque Government and society. Here are the points of the compromise amendment, urging certain collectives and certain actors in the world of sport and, in addition, well, we have to welcome, as a reference, the degree of consensus reached in the Senate on 7 March, for a little over a week ago, when all parliamentary groups in the Senate, all parliamentary groups, signed an institutional declaration. An institutional statement that is perfectly clear in relation to what sport is: "Sport is a fundamental element of the education system and its practice is important – as we have always stated – and, therefore, this need to isolate the violence of sport – in the maintenance of health (...) It is a correcting factor of social imbalances, which contributes to the development of equality among citizens, creates habits conducive to social inclusion and also promotes solidarity. All this constitutes sport as a determining element of the quality of life, the active and participatory use of leisure time in contemporary society, as well as a fundamental element for the growth of our society." A basic value of our social life, sport and the culture of sport and physical activity. "Sport has always been identified as a symbol of effort, clean competition and continuous overcoming." And the Senate identified this situation, this circumstance, this element, this general approach and, of course, in addition to other considerations in relation to legal issues or to the issues of the international conventions on violence and security, which are there, xenophobia in sport – and there are these general approaches – we have a good framework for action, and the Senate, in addition to deeply regretting the death of the inocencio Alonso inertzaine, expressed the issues that have to do with the antagonism of society and the very concept of sport with expressions of violence, and with strengthening the control and sanction of violent behaviour – it is clear – and, moreover, the appeal – I say again – in that institutional declaration, supported by all groups, to public institutions to strengthen frameworks. The legal framework, surely, existing and also the international framework. It also called on entities such as UEFA "to promote proper management, control and self-regulation that minimizes this violence to the maximum." That is a framework in which we want to discuss, and that is the framework of our initiative and of our non-legislative proposal. In addition, in this agreement signed by all, the Senate of the European Union requested "through Article 165 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the support, coordination and complementarity of the action of the Member States in the field of sports policy, promoting cooperation between the bodies responsible for sport, and protecting the physical and moral integrity of sportsmen and amateurs". It is clear that there is the framework for action, and there is the framework where we want to discuss and work. And we want to do this with the work of the Government too, in relation to the approaches that the initiative, the compromise amendment, wants. I say again that this initiative was signed by the People's Group, Socialist Group, Podemos, Esquerra Republicana, Catalan nationalist groups, the Basque Nationalist Group and the Mixed Group, where all the other parties represented in the Senate are framed. So, in that sense, it is a good reference and it is a reference that serves us to establish here the framework of action and the framework of... I, as I was saying, with Mrs García I practically share, of her original initiative, of the motion, I shared almost everything with Mrs García, except for that somewhat disembodied criticism she made to Mr Zupiria. I would prefer not to criticize Mr Zupiria at this time, and there will certainly be other areas of government that are more critical, and I would prefer at this time that the Department of Culture and that the Directorate of Sports and Physical Activity should get to work, draw up a document and present it in accordance with the compromise amendment in this Parliament on violence in sport. Mr Zupiria has no powers of public order and, in this regard, I believe that we are going to preserve a little more of his ability to act in relation to the sporting framework we are talking about and which is what we are interested in. And that document will be a document to talk about sport and violence in sport, and we will talk and we will be able to talk, because now, once the document comes, we can also contribute, and the document, I am sure, will talk about the role of the Government, of course, but it will talk about the role of clubs, the role of federations, the role of the Government itself, I say again, of the Sports Directorate, the role of municipalities, the role of Kirolalde, to which you have indeed referred, surely, is an area in which you can work and have a lot to do. But well, let's see if, regardless of whether or not activities and performances can be given, the ones you claim, in the Department of Culture and in Kirolalde in relation to that topic... We will also see whether in that document and in that parliamentary debate we can also draw conclusions on how those committees that revolve around sports policies can work and, in that case, also make an analysis, which can be critical, which can be constructive, in relation to Kirolalde. I understand that we have made progress with the signing of this compromise amendment. We are going to promote, apart from rejecting by this House everything that has to do with the negative in sport and, in this case, violence, because we are going to urge the government and to establish a parliamentary debate on sport, which I believe will be welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u6	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collectors, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u7	Ma'am, it's the head of the table, members of the legislature. Good morning. Well, in the first place, for all violence, whatever the area is that has been suffered, we want to give our suffering and support to those who have been beaten and wounded, wounded, wounded, wounded, wounded, wounded, wounded, wounded, wounded, and wounded by Saint Mames. Tonight, the sport, even the football, I want to praise it. I'd like to throw a little punch in the side of the sport. It doesn't seem right to me that sport, football, crime, or, under the pretext of violence, sports, football, despises, as if they were merely the deserts of violence, seems to me to be hypocritical. The other thing is that everything that's mounted on football and all the people have swallowed, but that's not football. It's not all good, it's no use to justify the society of violence we're building, the world, to justify the world, to justify the world that we're fostering from different states. The value of the patriarchal relations which we are constructing amongst us, and of justifying society, is of no use. And here no one is saved, much less they encourage the infinite neoliberal and social policy of the principle of violence, so that before you open your mouth, it would not be amiss to make a profound reflection. Violence is in all men: There's violence in this country, in every corner of the street. We have a natural violence. The question is how we manage it, how we manage it, how we manage it, and in all our expressions and actions, in all the fields of life, how we do it to avoid violence: the violence of words, the violence of expression, the violence of conduct. The violence may be expressed in several ways, and often it is connected with certain definite areas, and unfortunately, in certain definite areas and conditions, we know the hardest expressions, the extremes, the death. Klasism, isn't it violence? Matxism, bullinga, hynophobia, homophobia, transphobia, apophobia. I can keep going for a while... All of them, basically, have a culture, a culture we all ate. But fortunately, most of us are able to manage it somehow, based on positive values, but not always, and unfortunately, when we go to mass sports experiences, it appears somehow. But one question, all of you here: when you go to the mass sports jails, do you shout against the judge? You yell at the refunds? When you yell, what do you say? Do you insult him? It seems to me that we all ought to reflect on it. As sport, we say it's a masculinized space. Okay, yeah! Sports is a masculinized space. But this MP, isn't this a masculinized space? Isn't society a masculinized space? Isn't there violence in this parliament? In this law there are many violence and many wickedness. A lot... What are we fostering with all of us? I think it would be necessary to reflect on the role we all play, the role of different agents, and the role which the media play...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u8	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u9	Why is the focus on football right now? Or about football or the violence that happens around the sport? Has anyone mentioned it, and is he continually mashing when they've taken a rabies in the street when they've beaten him up and thrown him into the water? Does anyone remember that? Do we bring in the institutional expressions here? What are we doing? What kind of society are we building? A two-speed society, a society of punishment, security? Are we building a social state, or are we building a penal state? What are the consequences of all this? I think we should think about all that. The sport, in all its ranks, is an area of society; it is a expression of society, not more nor less. And like in other areas, in sport, we people get our best or worst of us, like football. Football isn't much more sporting or better than other sports. No... what happens is that football is one thing, and another thing is the business that's been thrown around football, politics, interest, and everything that's got it on sports and football. Unfortunately, we've had some sad events lately. But all these events, in other respects, in other areas, with another form, are daily in our society. And what do we do, by the elections, and public offices, as we stand here? What do we do? It seems, then, to me, that besides reflecting on it, and always remembering after something has happened, we ought to endeavour to promote from the institutions other values in our society, to promote a different culture, founded on mathematical values, to cultivate prevention. Even in sport, in all sports levels, with all the means of football, with public policies, and, of course, in all the areas where the public finances are directed, to make the society and all the fields of society unmasking, to make the proper management of violence, even when we find it in great groups, by strengthening and approximating positive values. I know it's easy to say all this, but the day isn't so soft and simple, but everything doesn't get along with the safety, everything doesn't get along with the edge, everything doesn't get along with the punishment, and you don't get on with the prohibitions. Most of the time, the opposite effect is achieved. As a society, as an institution, it seems to me that we have an important exercise to exercise, and that we have a great deal of work to do, in which this government must be wetted. It's not enough to take out the ball by looking into Europe, this time looking at the UEFA, when it never looks at the UEFA, or silences. It's not enough, and if we really want to build a society without violence, or if we want a field without violence, we'd have to try to transform the culture of our society by public politics. That's what we're supposed to do in every area. And the government has enormous tools there, lots of them. For example, one, a sporting, 2012 that hasn't been updated, well, this week had an update on it, and we tried it on the radio, with a campaign that has been started. I'm sure today it's from the point of this discussion, if it's anything, and the debates, too, move the government, and see if we can share all those groups in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u10	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u11	...by this monographic, well, we can see if they can promote this prevention culture in order to guide politics and activate the government. We all share, and we all have it in our middle-class delivery. One question to come to the end. I don't know... Does this government make an allergy to the agreement with the Basque People gathering? It is a question, e, because it seems strange to us as well as to what has happened in this matter. Of the three, that is to say, between PNV and PSE and PP, we close our agreement, and then direct our agreement to ourselves. Sleep tomas o' sleep dejas And lastly, all encourage to practise sports based on positive values. I'm sure the world would be better and happier if we made more sport, and perhaps even here we should have fewer debates and more sporting together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. The images are worth more than a thousand words and are in everyone's retina: flares, fire, violence in the stands of San Mamés; outside San Mamés, races, blows, broken crystals; there were knives, there were white weapons, assaulted vigilantes... And, above all these images, unfortunately, that of the inocencio Alonso inertzaine falling apart from a heart attack among the starters of a bloody street battle, which is what remains for us in the memory of these last days that have given rise to this motion and to this non-law proposal on violence in sport, which unfortunately relate two terms and two worlds in principle, and ultimately, antagonistic: violence and sport. I will not overlook the direct responsibility of that group of people who went to see a football match, but who, on the excuse of it, went to make a fuss, to destroy, to beat, to insult, to frighten and, if the case came – because they have also done so – to kill. It does not matter anything or anyone; they have no motive or cause, because violence never has cause, nor origin, nor justification. And that's also worth, in this case, in sport. That direct responsibility therefore exists, but that does not exclude the political responsibility that lies with all political forces and all institutions – I say to the whole of the institutions – to prevent and eradicate this violence and to take it out of the stadiums and out of our sport. From the Socialist Group, we understand that events have taken place here and now, but the problem of violence and sport could not be focused here and now, in Bilbao, on the Basque Government, on Sports and the Interior and on its institutional leaders, Mr Zupiria and Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, because the demand for responsibility lies with the competent institutions, from the European level to the local levels, and with all the political forces we find present in it. Because responsibility, I understand that it belongs to everyone, and because we are all concerned – and responding a little to previous interventions – of course Kirolalde's work will be important, and of course it will be important to work in Culture, from the sphere of coexistence, human rights and respect and the momentum within education in those values, but we will have to rely on more people, with more competent institutions, to end this phenomenon, which is global. But I say this because the violence in sport is not private of any country – here there are no flags or homelands – nor of ours, nor of Russian, nor of French; nor is it of Olympique, of Athletic, of Real Madrid or of Spartak. Unfortunately, to use sports events, especially football, yes, especially football, male football – for something to be – as an excuse to trigger violent acts or macho, racist, xenophobic or intolerant attitudes are events that have been repeated for a long time, back in the '80s, too often and all over the world, weekend yes and weekend also, even if it is not in the form of violent altercation; in fact, I will not remember things that all of you know: since when comes the legislation promoted by Europe in 85, with the state legal framework around the Law against Violence, Racism, Xenophobia and Intolerance in Sport, and there is also Law 18/1998, the Basque Sports Law, of urgent renewal and adaptation. I will say this again in this rostrum, as I have said on other occasions and also on this subject: it is urgent that the Basque Government and the departments present this new law on sport, among other things, because although the fight against violence in sport was included in that law of 98, from 98 to today, which we are in 2018 – with which it is 20 years – it has been a long time. At that time, the forms of violence, for example, because we are confined to this area, have been inserted into sports practice in the way they have been inserted, and the data are there and we have to assess new ways of dealing with such violence, from education and from other relevant areas of the Basque Government. That is why I was saying that not everything is Kirolalde, not everything is Culture and Sport, not everything is the Basque Government, not even everything is the Government of Spain, but that the European Union must also coordinate a solution and a global response to a problem that is global, and which is the responsibility of everyone. It is an organized violence – all of you, all of you know it – with a single excuse, which is sport, but only as an excuse, spread over pillars of intolerance and racism. Whether football, violence is unleashed through it against society as a whole, not just against sportsmen and amateurs, because the activity is planned to be violent and is organized to damage, break, kill and destroy. The celebration of the football game, therefore, is an excuse. It is a problem, then – I say again here – with an answer, however, that we can not only give. But it is not only about flares, aggressions, irons, stones, balls, blows, fire and fury, because some spokesman who preceded me, Mrs Ubera, has also spoken about it. It's not just the insults to the opponent in the field. It is also about sexist violence in sports shows, about the insults to women who are despised for entering that stop that men consider theirs. Of the contempt and frivolization of the macho violence, of the exaltation in the ranks of the abuser and the contempt of the victim, of shouting, in full lung, thousands and thousands of amateurs, in a field, "you are a whore; you did well", when a person of macho violence has been accused, of the exaltation, therefore, of the abusers against the protection of the victim. Also of racism and xenophobia, to chant also thousands and thousands of people "black", "black", "mono" and "dead" in full lung in a spectacle broadcast before millions of spectators and spectators. It is therefore a question of promoting, at the end of the day, in addition to a violent world, a homophobic world, which is discriminatory because of sexual and racist orientation or identity. Deeply racist, which have also always been. And that, obviously, is also violence because it is intolerance. And that doesn't just happen one day, on the occasion of a confrontation in the European league; that happens every weekend, in all categories of all events. Therefore, I do agree with many of the speeches, and that is why the compromise amendment tabled which – in my opinion, as Mr Barrio said – was in line with being able to be fucked with all the political groups, is what I wanted to do. If it is a problem for everyone, and it is not confined here, we will all need and act in coordination: the institutions, I insist, as the statement in the Senate also says, from Europe to the premises, and also the clubs, federations and competition entities, such as the UEFA. Yesterday he passed in Bilbao, but he also passed in Lyon, where he had been arrested, and UEFA knew this since the last confrontation in February. And UEFA has done nothing, knowing that it had a high-risk confrontation, both in Bilbao and Lyon. So, I insist, we are going to be, I don't know if generous, but mostly responsible, when we demand, all those people who can do something to help us prevent violence and act against violence, who are here. This is also the responsibility of the clubs; obviously it is the responsibility of the clubs. Clubs no longer have excuses, and we also reflect it in the compromise amendment, to expel any violent and intolerant person or group from their stadiums and their hobby, as some football team did in the past and brought problems to their management, for example, the Barcelona Football Club. No more excuses, no excuses, no second chances, should be allowed for the Athletic of Bilbao, with regard to amateurs and amateurs who practice violence, or for any club that allows it. I therefore urge you to cooperate with all the actors and all the actors involved in this matter, which is the responsibility of all of us. Because then there is education in values. This was said by the adviser in his speech, in the answer to the question, and I repeat: an education in values, in human rights and in respect, which we are also building in this country, is deeply needed. And to know also and to teach our children that sport is not just a victory or a defeat; that sport is much more, that sport is also equality between men and women, it is freedom, it is a fundamental instrument of a welfare state that facilitates social integration, and that a society, a country and a decent sport, as I believe we want it to be that which is in our country, cannot tolerate this kind of violent clashes, charged with intolerance, hatred and anger. Neither these, nor all those that occur every weekend and that we do not bring to this Parliament or to this rostrum, because, unfortunately, that referee who is insulted by being a woman has no room on the front page of a newspaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. In sport, general, and football, especially violence, and to disappear, you need everyone's interaction. And the leadership of this association ought to be carried away by the political institutions of sports and institutions, as I have said, in conjunction. We are facing a problem that transcends the Euscatacies for a great deal. The least part of the problem is to take the whole continent of Europe. We may safely say that the limits of the European Union are slighted by this problem, which affects the people and countries of Europe which are not of the Union. And knowing the structure of sports and football institutions and political institutions, it is evident that there is one which could act most efficiently: UEFA. for it is chiefly in his power to act in the presence of all such postures and actions. Today, with the dimensions of football, and especially with the economic dimension, there wouldn't be a team that would risk the intervention of its cities, cities, cities, countries, or states, in Europe, if UEFA's haters, who are organized by UEFA itself, were to do violence, to the game, to the gaming, or to every action, without taking any part in the hats that UEFA arranges for a few years. Besides, he shouldn't do anything new. In the final European Cup of Turin and Liverpool, 1985, 39 Italians were killed after an English ultra-old against them. UEFA left all the groups of England without playing in European hats for five years, and Liverpool for six years. And this decision on both the pressure of the British Government and the co-operation of the football clubs, the physiognomy of the football fields, or the social habits of that country, produced a change in the formation of the fans. As long as UEFA does not succeed in the problem with determination, the States of Europe have a question of security, which is what we have in hand; security problem. "Eso es lo que tenemos entre manos, un problema deceridad plublica, no propiamentte de culta y deporte." And before this question of security, the States are obliged to defend themselves. The Violentians in England mentioned did not allow them to leave their homes in the days of the games. With international competition, it wouldn't be bad. Waiting always for what the Chinese have to say, of course, if each state did not allow the British police to get out of their bounds, as the British police did in 2006, when they had withdrawn $3,000 passports to the Violentetus, who were going to take the road to the German World Games of that year. Nor would it be superfluous to allow the States to penetrate within their limits, as France did in 2016, with 2,000 Russian risks directed to the Eurocopara. And in this, as Mrs. Romero said, the European Union also has its meaning. And, yes, I'm sure you're gonna have to do it too. He must act in the prevention of this violence, in the respect of human rights, and in the promotion of the values of sport. And he does, in my humble opinion, and in the belief of our party, promotes human rights and values. Even if it were necessary, he'd have to give up the repression in front of such a security problem, because our football teams, luckily, play European contests, and that's why we get foreign ultra ultras, but because we still have the right foot-feet of violence which is too easy for us. It is clear that we are entirely agreed with the necessity of applying education, culture, and preventive measures. But this matter cannot be repaired by being alone, or at least by putting it in order, without society and, above all, the support of organized society. Social, organized in football teams or football figures, where the football teams, like clubs in England, have a big story. Our football club shouldn't take these ultras as representatives of their fans, not even the social masses of our football clubs. Hence we believe that the football clubs ought to establish certain measures in their reception or punishment procedures, so that their social mass does not belong to groups of persons and groups who will have violent behavior against sports and humanity. And so we put it in the middle we signed. At the same time, the feds of faith should be an active part of what lands those of the Chinese would be part of the Security Department in this area, in order to continue working in the field of prevention. I repeat: this is essentially a matter of security, not of culture and sport. So, according to the parliamentary initiatives that have brought us here today, the inks are loaded with Kirolalde, who in Spanish bears the name of Committee against Violence in Sport, and perhaps by that name there is a confusion, which I would not dare to say is intentional, although, truth be told, I would not dare say otherwise either. The point is that confusion is easy to clarify. Kirolalde is a Committee against Violence in Sport, in sport in the field, not in the surrounding and streets adjacent to a football stadium; violence in such surrounding and adjacent streets is a security issue. So if you, Mrs García, ask for a detailed study on the characteristics, evolution, causes and consequences of violence in sport, with particular attention to the latest episodes of violence linked to professional men's football, as you do in the first paragraph of the fourth point of your original motion, you will find yourself with a report that gathers information derived from the arbitration proceedings that is contained in the Basque regional football federations on cases of violence, insults, macho shouts, racists, xenophobics, etc., which took place in the four states of the elite teams of this community, read the Royal Society, the Eibar, the Alaves and the Athletic of Bilbao. That's what you're going to find with. And that has nothing to do with the ultra phenomenon that makes you stay. But it is that, to finish, we have to analyze the ridiculousness of the misconception, which is at the fifth point of your motion, Mrs. García, and that is that you have bitten the thing. You want the plenary of the Basque Parliament to draw the attention of Mr Zupiria, the Councillor for Culture, to alleged errors in the management of an area in which he has no managerial powers or responsibilities, and all this because he does not promote the activity of a committee which does not have competence in this area, where such errors in management are supposed to have occurred. Note! Why, after all, are you saying that if Kirolalde had met as often and assiduously as you consider appropriate, there would not have been the unfortunate events of 22 February in the run-up to the European competition party between the Athletic of Bilbao and the Spartak of Moscow? I think we should put a lot more emphasis on it. And I agree with some of the views that have been made in common, in the approach to the reality of the issue. From there, I would like to express to you our readiness to work together in the future, in the work that can actually be carried out by the Department or by the Committee on Culture, on the line of the transactional that we have signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u16	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. García Troublembie, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u17	Thank you, señora, president. Listening to the speeches of some speakers, it gives the impression that there are parliamentary groups that do not see a problem around policies to prevent violence in Basque sport, despite the reality. And what is worse, no responsibilities are taken on or addressed from public institutions and from the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy; in another exercise of self-congratulation and lack of self-criticism, the emphasis is placed on the proposal that you have presented, in the work of sports clubs, federations and associations. While the participation of these actors and their involvement in the search for solutions to this problem is essential, it is the duty of the Public Administration to lead the fight against violence in sport in our autonomous community, taking concrete and effective preventive measures. Sometimes, one doesn't know if we're being fooled. It is incomprehensible how, in the compromise amendment signed by the parties supporting the Government and the PP, there is no mention, in the eight points they raise, of the Basque Council against Violence in Sport. And I wonder: isn't Kirolalde an effective tool for coordinating and developing policies to prevent violent behaviours and attitudes in the course of sporting events and shows? Because we do have a point. You seem to be unclarified, or have no interest in taking concrete and effective action. Do you really believe that with the realization of training days, a decalogue of good practices in sport and the elaboration of a study by the end of the year, which ends in a set of recommendations, the problem of the violence of sport will be solved? Is it so difficult for them to recognize the mismanagement developed so far and to assume that the solution is to activate and validate the Committee against Violence in Sport? Not only to bring it together, but to map out concrete strategies and actions. Why do they strive to duplicate functions and not use this body as a tool for prevention and analysis? We don't know the interests behind it, because they haven't given us any explanations either. I believe that what happened yesterday in Bilbao confirms the need to put in place urgent and effective measures, and a comprehensive shock plan, as we proposed in our amendment. We thank Mrs Ubera for her willingness to reach an agreement and for trying to reach a consensus on an issue that is of great concern to Basque citizens today, and we agree that the issue of violence is a general problem of society, not only limited to the sporting sphere, but that this is what we are talking about today, the sporting sphere. We regret the attitude of the Group of the European People's Party and its spokesman, Mr Barrio, in the course of the negotiation of this initiative; at all times we have been willing to give in and change our positions, sacrificing some of our points, in order to reach a consensus and a broader agreement. However, it seems that you have changed your mind, Mr Barrio. Two weeks ago, you asked in full control of Kirolalde's activity and you showed the inactivity of the last seven years; but today, instead of being consistent and demanding the activation of the Basque Council against Sport Violence, you sign an initiative with the Government, which contradicts what they put forward in full control, and I really don't understand it, because none of the eight points lie to the Council. You were talking about an institutional declaration signed in the Senate, and we understand that it is insufficient, that what needs to be done is concrete and effective measures, and you yourself mentioned that you agreed with most of the ideas raised in my motion. If you agreed, why don't you ask for a point vote? If I agreed, why haven't you called me and we've reached an agreement? That's things you'll know, Mr. Barrio. In recent times, it seems that the PNV, the PSE and the PP put the automatic in order to sign together, in order to mark the pattern of pacts and agreements between the Basque Government and the State Government, without addressing the issue being discussed, prioritizing their partisan interests and electoral revenue, in the face of the reality and the needs of Basque citizens. Despite all this, I tried yesterday to reach an agreement with you, but he did not answer me; he already had an agreement, which was more suitable for those who run his parties. Flaco favor we do to the struggle for the eradication of violence in sport. And, Mr Urrutia, you are to this debate what men's football sometimes has to do with the world of sport: the majority choice that looks at its own economic interests and benefits, rather than reflecting on the behaviors that occur within it, and imposes its roller and does not count on the rest of the parliamentary groups. It is also curious, Mrs Romero, that the PSE, which was the main driving force behind Kirolalde, today accepts that the amendment by this Government does not mention or highlight the Committee against Violence in Sport. Today, the PNV, the PSE government, with the support of the PP, has shut down Kirolalde. Euskadi today ceases to have its own committee against violence in sport. Today we refer, according to Mr Urrutia, to the state and the European, and not to instruments of our own. We must continue to work as a society to prevent and prevent episodes of violence in sport. We have missed a good opportunity, from the institutions, to reach a comprehensive agreement. We'll keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Popular, Mr Barriio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u19	Yes, thank you, President. Soon... Well, Mrs. Garcia may have some dissatisfaction, surely, with the final position. What I wanted to do was to ensure that the Government did a job; I wanted that communication, I wanted us to discuss, after that work of the Government, a communication from the Government, and the truth is that the best way to secure it in a non-law proposal or in a motion, such an initiative, is to agree with the Government. The truth is that it is a matter of seeking effectiveness or usefulness or opportunity, look at it this way, but I wanted that document, that study and that internal analysis of the Government in relation to sport and the violent expression in sport, and for me, nothing better than to agree with the Government, to compromise that action. Kirolalde, where you have put the accent: neither you are entirely right, nor Mr Urrutia is entirely right. You are right; Kirolalde had to have done much more, and that is quite clear, because if you read the decree of Kirolalde, where its definition and its functions are regulated, indeed, one thing has been the drift that Kirolalde could have had in relation to that strictly internal area, strapped to sports facilities and enclosures, but the philosophy was very different. Reading the explanatory statement of the decree that regulates it and the functions, which even have to do with the recommendations, gather information, assist with recreational, sporting shows, in relation to... I mean, there could have done a lot more. That is, the work is what you want to do, not the one that strictly seems the literality of some rules to say. No, no, there you could have done a lot more, and that's pretty clear and you're right. And to a large extent also Mr Urrutia, who has spoken about how it has worked; for that too we want to bring to the parliamentary debate, those bodies, or this, or the one that can be generated or the proposal that we can make of new sports bodies in relation to and around sport and violence in sport and that we can debate, evaluate, analyse and propose to the government... That is why I wanted to identify – and I want to identify – problems, to solve them and to help the government from this Parliament. And I believe that redefining Kirolalde's functions will surely be one of the priorities that we have to do; but, in that sense, it would not base the whole element of his motion on Kirolalde's functions, because the issue goes much further and we have to be all-encompassing on this issue, on a number of issues that affect us. That is why, in fact, I basically agree with what you have proposed. I have signed a compromise amendment, and I will have to abstain in yours; but, in any case, I say to you that I share most of the arguments you have made. We have signed a compromise amendment to which you too could have joined absolutely, because the eight points, I believe, are, of the compromise amendment, all of them. Because regret... the first, without any doubt; the second, the rejection of any attitude, violent behavior, committed with the excuse of sport; the third, manifest what is the violence to sport, which is antagonistic with the concept of sport, declare the definitive eradication of this type of behavior, the role of UEFA, the Basque Parliament... continue to work towards the eradication of violence through the prevention of violence –prevention of it, you were talking about it, too; you were talking about it, you were calling Kirolalde's name and surname, but that is also what we say in the area of prevention in the compromise proposal, the role of federations, sports clubs, in coordination with the Department of Security... – urges the clubs to establish in their statutes – as Mr Urrutia pointed out earlier – those procedures to prevent violent people from forming part of their social masses and their rocks and clubs. Indeed, it is an element that we have all required and that some club – already remembered here – has taken at some point... To urge that, in order to raise awareness of the public, the Basque School of Sport carry out a series of training or information days, well, that is fine; it is the work of the Government. And then we came to the communication, which is what we wanted, in relation to the work that the government has to do and the debate that this Parliament can have. I believe that we have made a compromise amendment which you can add perfectly to. Indeed, Kirolalde has not been lied to, but Kirolalde will undoubtedly be the protagonist of the Government's communication and of the proposals we can make to improve its relative inefficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u20	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The representative of the EH Group will not speak a word. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, okay? Yours is de word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Well, first of all, I am going to refer to an issue that I have not said before and I think it is important: I do believe that this is not just a security issue. Indeed, I do not believe that homophobic, racist and anti-equality attacks are one thing and violence in sport is a matter of security. Security is part of the solution, not everything is security, but it is also within the agreement. And I insist: this is a problem that affects education in values against violence, in which we are doing, I believe, important work in the Basque Government and with a great consensus, at least working on consensus. And that's what I wanted to make clear. On the compromise amendment, it is precisely those values that we wanted to make clear. This is not just a point-by-point issue; it is an issue that really affects the sports and interior departments, but also the whole Basque Government, clubs, federations, UEFA and other institutions, which at state or European level have competences and need to be coordinated. Therefore, uncertain and false that this compromise amendment that we are presenting... And that may have a thousand flaws, but one of them isn't that I just talk about clubs. Uncertain. But if you're talking about clubs, it's because you have to talk about clubs. Because clubs have to position themselves and take steps to get the violent ones out of the stands. Yes, Mrs. Edurne. If you don't like that part, I like it especially, especially... That at first. Secondly, what dark interests do the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party have in supporting this amendment? Say it yourself and I will defend myself. I have none, but to work on a compromise amendment with the will that it should reflect the concerns of all, including Kirolalde, because it was in a socialist government when that body was created. Yes, yes, yes; if you read a little back and can see the whole story, Kirolalde too. Put the roller on, put the roller on! Look, the spokesman who is speaking right now with the only one who has not agreed in this Parliament will be with you. Maybe the problem is you, not me. Exactly. Because precisely because of the will to reach agreements and consensus... "If you let me finish, I will finish; if you want to talk, then come down and ask permission from the president," I have reached agreements on the issues that seem important to me, as I arrived with Mrs. Arana in the elimination of macho violence in sports shows. We've all come to an agreement. You'll have the problem; I won't have it! I will not have the problem, when I think perfectly well that your concern is sincere – that is why you made an inquiry and made a motion – and that your concern is resolved in this amendment, not as well as you would, sure, but it is resolved and is trying to respond. So, the land policy burned here in the rostrum, it's not for me, it's not for me. I don't practice it, but it's not for me. It is not worth saying anything on any subject, because it is not allowed to break all the consensus that you can build around essential aspects, such as the policy of human rights, coexistence and respect, whether in sport or outside them, to say that there are hidden interests of two parties; I do not allow it, I do not consent, because it is a lie. And that, in addition to saying so, I will say that it can hinder other agreements that are necessary for this country, and we will not consent. But, of course, the policy of burning land, of screaming in a rostrum without any sustenance, throwing accusations in front of people and groups, I do not like; I do not practice it, and neither will I allow it in my points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. To conclude, Euca patriots, Lord Faraway, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u23	Yes, ma'am. Well, first of all, I would like to make one thing clear: I too believe that the issue of violence must be dealt with in a much more comprehensive way than the issue of security. I do not know whether there will be the feeling that I have turned the whole issue over to a security issue, but it is that the initiative itself - at least Mr Barrio's - which has brought us here - is a security problem at European level. That's for starters. Second. You talk about interests. Look, I want you to come to the gallery one day and tell us exactly what interests you're talking about or what interests you're accusing us of. Because this transaction that we have signed by the Socialist Group, the People's Group and we, if not an integral copy, is very similar to the one that has been signed in the Senate. And you will see why you have not entered into the agreement. As for Kirolalde... Look, Kirolalde is a committee set up by a decree of 2004, and it is a committee that has certainly remained quite inexecutive, because Law 19/2007 of 11 July, against violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sport, emptied it of contents and competences. It has therefore remained a non-executive committee, where aspects such as prevention end up as a security competence. You said, Mrs García, in your first speech: "We have the tools; we need political will". No, no, It's just the other way around. It's just the other way around. The Department of Culture has all the political will to eradicate that violence and all of it. Another thing is that this violence, which has brought us here today, has no tools through Kirolalde, for the reasons I have explained to you before. And just a little bit of funk. You said we have allergies to make a deal with you. What a coincidence, I thought the same of you! In fact, one day before, at the Board of Education, on the subject of a physiology, I did the same thing you did with the same words. And then I had to hear that we didn't want to make a deal because you had a good will. We also had an honest will to make a treaty. But, besides, I think that's a bit of a hypocrite. Have you seen the fifth point of the media you signed? Yeah? And do you think we're going to sign an agreement on those terms? Is that all you have? Is that all you've got? That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u24	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Now that the argument is over, we'll vote together for the middle-direction signed by Podemos and EH Collectors. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 37; the whites, 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u25	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Euscalia Socialeists, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eucousists. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; Abstations, 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u26	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the American legislature of the Popula, a police officer of the 22nd of February 2018. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Miss Llanos has the word to introduce and defend her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u27	Gracias, señora presidenta. Good morning, everyone. On 2 March, she asked the Security Adviser about what happened on 22 February, about the party playing in the stadium of San Mamés between Athletic and Spartak Moscow. A party linked to a tragic fact: the death of the agent of the Ertzaintza Inocencio Alonso. And, therefore, the first point of our motion was to show that regret and solidarity of this House with the Ertzaintza and his family. A party that, as I said when the interpellation ended, will not remain in our memory precisely because of the sporting result, but will do so because, as I said, in the course of these incidents, the member of the Mobile Brigade passed away, because there were nine wounded, wounded, also from outside the Ertzaintza and serious riots that put at risk those who were going to access the stadium, and that once again gave a picture of Bilbao linked to violence, just the opposite of what Bilbao is and what we want Bilbao to be (a welcoming, friendly and quiet city) and of the image we want to give, and especially when we are going to have international events such as, for example, European Cup parties. That is why we must show, in this House, the absolute rejection of the violent acts of the radical swelling of Athletic and Spartak. And that was the second point of our motion, as we must also reject and condemn what happened again yesterday in San Mamés: two security guards were wounded, one in the neck and the other in one hand. From here we wish you – our group, we wish you – a speedy recovery, as well as we condemn your aggression and aggression against an El Correo journalist when he was doing his job. Again football mixed with violence. Therefore, our intention with the interpellation – and today also with the motion – is to focus on a fundamental issue, and to separate football and violence altogether. And it is necessary to do so, as has also been said here today, in a preventive way, trying to prevent football from being used as an excuse – because it is no more than that, an excuse – for violent actions and attitudes, and expelling those who do. Police action must also be taken, including preventive measures, to ensure that no incidents occur and, if they occur, intervene to ensure that they are suffocated as soon as possible. I said it the other day. All the institutions, all the groups, all the teams, we must act together, we must show our absolute rejection that violence and sport, that violence and football can go together, and take all possible and necessary measures to that end. Because, as I said the other day here, those savages – because that's what they are, savages – don't understand football or their values. They don't care much about football anymore, they don't care much about their team, because their goal is not to encourage the team; their goal is the altercations, it's violence. And violent radicals, there were Russians in the match on the 22nd, as there were Frenchmen yesterday in the Olympic party, but as I said the other day, we also have them here. On the day of the Spartak game it was the incidents that began in the esplanade of the football stadium; they were the ones who were confiscated extensible batons, metal bars, American fists, knives, stones, pyrotechnic material,... all of them are not specifically intended to encourage their team. All of us who have gone to San Mamés have seen them and we have identified them. We all know that here we also have those violent and savages, who use football, who use Athletic and other Basque teams, staining their name, their history, to do the only thing they know how to do: practice violence and intolerance. In fact, most of the detainees the other day were Basque radicals. But not only the other day, also on the occasion of the Olympic match two years ago, the Zenit, the APOEL, etc. That is why I was saying the other day that when, from the Basque Nationalist Party, through Mr Esteban's mouth, he was going to UEFA to tell him how he could afford to have teams with those hobbies and play in his competitions, it should be pointed out that, unfortunately, there are also some of those hobbies in Euskadi, which we also have, and why not name them. We have said this: the hobby of Herri Norte, which is just as radical and violent as those hobbies to which Mr Esteban referred. And we also want UEFA to act to prevent violence in football, but because we do not want UEFA to prevent Athletic from playing in European competitions, or other Basque teams, we need to take action, action against violent football. Against them we have to act, avoiding that they are present, and it can be done, because other teams have done it: Real Madrid did it with the Ultras Sur, Barcelona did it with the Boixos Nois, Atlético de Madrid, Valencia, Espanyol,... Moreover, the Athletic, by the mouth of its president, Mr Urrutia, pointed out that violent acts should not be placed in the environment of the team, and that, if it were known that any of the partners had had inappropriate behaviors, appropriate measures would be taken. He also pointed out that Athletic would go hand in hand with the institutions, with all the institutions, to find the best solutions, because the violence that is generated around football is unacceptable and appropriate measures must be taken to tackle it. We cannot agree more with the statement he made, which pointed out that amateurs and amateurs have the right to go to the countryside without having to suffer fights, insults and confrontations between groups of alleged amateurs who do not represent anyone. We fully and absolutely subscribe to those words. Therefore, in our motion, and also in the general compromise amendment to the rest of the teams, we urged the Athletic to initiate, in application of its statutes, the timely dossier leading to the loss of membership of the club to those individuals and groups who have shown a violent attitude on the occasion of this party, and to do the same in simulated situations that may occur in the future. We know that the Athletic, and I'm sure the rest of the Basque teams, also want the violence to disappear from San Mamés, and that's why we think it will make partners who have violent behaviors have no place in the club. We also took up one point in our motion, which is now reflected in the compromise amendment that we have signed, when we are talking not only about the partners, but also about the rest of the groups. But I want to make a reference, as we did in our motion, to a group, a radical and violent collective, such as Herri Norte. Because not only did we refer in these terms to them from our group, but it was also done from other instances; for example, the union of the Ertzaintza ESAN asked the Athletic to once and for all expel the members of this ultra group. The use, incitement and advocacy of violence and the removal of basic principles from the coexistence to which this group incites are well known to all. And as we have said, violence, violent behaviour, must be disconnected once and for all from football, through the necessary instruments, with the collaboration of other institutions. Both associations and violent groups, as constituted by Herri Norte, have to disappear from football. That is why we also urged the State Commission against Violence in Sport to draw up a proposal for a sanction that would entail the prohibition of entry into San Mamés to those people who showed a violent attitude on the occasion of this party and do the same in similar situations that may occur in the future. We have extended this, in that compromise amendment that we have signed with the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, to the rest of the Basque clubs. And if we were referring to the Athletic specifically it was because the motion brought cause for an inquiry that we made in relation to a particular party, but that we see it right to extend to all the teams. Finally, we are going to refer to the operations organized in relation to this type of party; because, as Mr Urrutia said before, it is true that in many cases this type of party and this type of event are transformed into a question of security, of ensuring public safety. When I asked the counselor 15 days ago, in connection with that operation on the 22nd, the truth is that I got little response. In a masterful exercise of the maximum that the best defense is always a good attack, he did not answer any of the questions raised by this group, by this parliamentarian; he used three quarters of his intervention to charge against the representatives of the Ertzaintza and to point out that the operation had been perfectly organized. The following Tuesday it seemed that this self-completion had been renewed, and at the Ertzaintza Council, held on the 6th, it seemed to give some sign of replacing that pride – which I said here, demonstrated – with a dialogue attitude, an issue that this group pointed out that it was pleased – and we want to reiterate it here today, that we were happy – and that we see it as positive. But we also pointed out, when that meeting occurred, our scepticism, and we asked that that meeting and that subsequent meetings not become a firewall, a way to gain time in that conflict that exists within the Ertzaintza and, specifically, a way to gain time in front of yesterday's party's operation. By the way, it's a very different operation, a very different one from the one on the 22nd. In this House, the truth was missing when it was said that the operation had been perfect and that I do not know... and that, therefore, assuming that the following operations would be the same. Yesterday's operation had nothing to do with it: Comprehensive checks were carried out from the first hour of the morning on the French fans; surveillance was carried out with the Herri North swell; San Mamés was used to avoid contact between the two swells; glass containers were removed – which was not done the previous time–; many more agents were deployed than the other day; perimeters of agents were made, and this, as I say, allowed the creation of a safety ring. Security in San Mamés failed, indeed, which allowed those two security guards to be injured and flared into the field. These caches are carried out jointly between the security of the field and Ertzaintza itself, with which it will be a point to improve, specifically that point. But it has to be acknowledged – because it has to be acknowledged, and we do not make any criticisms in the void, or criticisms without foundation – that yesterday's operation worked better and that, therefore, what we were saying the other day here, 15 days ago, was true. The operation of the other day, that of the Spartak party, was poorly organized, as were other previous operations. Like the one that was made two years ago with the Olympique de Marseille, with this same team. What a difference, what a difference, the correlates we lived two years ago with what happened yesterday! And you're going to say that the operatives have been organized in the same way? The question to be asked is: why now yes, why yesterday yes, organized in this way, and not before? The question to be asked is, do we have to get things to the limit? If only when the Security Council has been questioned from all areas, when it seems that the post itself has been endangered, has that temporary improvement of operations brought with it? And I say temporary. – and I hope that this temporality will not be confirmed – because the confidence of the agents and representatives of the agents in reaching an understanding lasted a week. It is true that at that meeting on the 6th they were optimistic, but at this week's meeting the two majority unions were disappointed. From ErNE they have denounced that the councillor has returned to the exit box, and from ESAN, that the meeting was sour and with great tension, pointing out, also, that it is necessary to make progress and that there is a real will to negotiate, that it is not only intended to buy time, because, otherwise, the mobilizations will return. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary that this advice improves the functioning of the Mobile Brigade and improves the functioning of the operatives, so that they do not relive extreme moments of great tension, such as those we have experienced and that they cannot relive. The will, the good intention, the good disposition of the agents of the Ertzaintza is clear; yesterday they gave a clear example of this. Your professionalism, too, is clear. The point is that to that good intention, to that good disposition, to that professionalism, there is a good willingness on the part of the council, to move from words to facts, because what the Mobile Brigade needs, what the operations organized before special events and parties such as yesterday's, or Spartak's, are done; because it is with facts, and not with words or intentions, such as security, that is the duty of this Government. Therefore, that is the last point: to continue to improve in a real way with this operation of the operatives and the Brigade. We have signed a compromise, for which we are asking, from here, for support for groups that have not signed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u28	Thank you, Miss Llanos. This is the turn of the teams that have advanced the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. García, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u29	Thank you, señora, good morning to all again. Those who believe that citizen security is an exclusive land for the right are deceived. Those who believe that citizen security is the perfect excuse to cut freedoms and rights and want to raise their development in these terms will face us. We will be faced with those who propose to use Damocles' sword of law to silence protests, but we will not be able to count on those who intend to return to the use of the means of action demonstrated as violators of rights such as rubber balls; we will be faced with those who want to stir up emotions at the dawn of violent incidents to fish votes in revolted river; we will be faced with those who do not take care of the working conditions of police officers. And we also say loud and clear: protesting is legitimate, defending the rights of the Ertzaintza workers is legitimate, but there is an unstoppable limit. Those who are called to protect and comply with the law cannot use as a pressure measure the threat of non-compliance, let alone stop protecting. Today there can be no room for those who want to take advantage of or drain the package in the face of a real problem that affects the day-to-day life of citizens, which legitimately generates concern and needs effective answers to be put on the table. And the left, the transformative and progressive forces, we have alternatives; we have them, and we are going to defend them today in this House. The political change that Euskadi needs goes by listening to the citizens, by listening to them when they say that insecurity is an issue that, under certain circumstances, affects their lives, as is natural. That legitimate and objective dissatisfaction, on many occasions, deserves a response from our institutions. Let us imagine, for a moment, how the parents and mothers of the thousand students of La Pureza school in Bilbao feel, which has closed, for the second time in fifteen days, for their proximity to the stadium of San Mamés, where high-risk games have been played. What about the locals who have had to lower the blind in the face of fear of suffering damage. It is easy to imagine that they do not feel especially protected by their institutions in recent weeks. Without going any further, how that huge majority of football fans feel that see how incidents have happened inside and outside. Make no mistake, Elkarrekin Podemos is not going to fall into the alarmism of some, nor in the denial of the problem of others. If we put these situations on the table, it is because we believe that they deserve an answer, a response proper to the 21st century and a society that wants to be at the head of Europe, and that is not done with laws or rubber balls. Most Basque society is progressive. Basque society has mobilized and manifested itself over and over again against cuts in rights and freedoms. Basque society does not want to go back to the past with scenes of balls and racing in the streets. Basque society rejects violence, loud and clear. That is why we must start today by saying that, as Basque society itself, our group and the whole of this Parliament, without any doubt, reject all violent behaviours or attitudes, that the violence that takes place, not so much in sport as with the excuse for sport, is unacceptable. It is unacceptable from any point of view and does not accept any justification either. No guy! And we must continue to sincerely convey our condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of Ino Alonso. We send you, from here, a strong embrace to accompany you at these hard times, just as we wish for an early recovery to the two security officers who were injured yesterday and to all those people who were involved in the incidents. And it is that the incidents that took place around the party against the Spartak of Moscow were not isolated facts, as were not those of yesterday against the Olympique of Marseilles. They were not isolated events, because, in the last five years, at least 10 times – yes, on 10 occasions – there have been serious incidents with the excuse of sports competitions. That's not isolated facts. It is unacceptable, it is irresponsible, to say that there is hardly a problem of violence in sport in Euskadi. Mr. Zupiria's words the other day were stuttering. Denying is denying reality. It is to want to drain the bulk of the mismanagement that is being made of this problem. And this problem has names and surnames, because these violent episodes don't generally occur in all sports, they don't occur in women's football. This problem, a serious problem, is precisely about men's professional football; it is about First Division football clubs, without ignoring what happens in other lower divisions. And, gentlemen of the PP, Mrs. Llanos, this is not a problem of Bilbao, nor of Athletic exclusively. It is also a problem of the Real; it is also a problem of the Alavés. Of the 10 serious incidents that have occurred in the last five years, four have occurred in Bilbao, three in Donostia and three in Gasteiz. That's the reality. As undeniable as there is a serious problem, this problem affects equally the three clubs and the three historic territories of Euskadi. That is why, Mrs Llanos, there is nowhere to take your motion; that is why, Mrs Llanos, trying to criminalize a particular club – the Athletic – is not admissible. That is why, Mrs Llanos, the solution is not to focus on urging, over and over again, Athletic, as you intend. It goes on to put in place comprehensive measures and solutions, addressing society in general and the four male First Division clubs in particular. But even more so, Mrs. Llanos. You have come today to settle with a specific group, with Herri Norte. We do not feel any affinity or closeness with this group, but today the problem is not confined to them alone; there are more rocks and groups leading incidents. That is why, Mrs Llanos, your solutions loaded with demagogy, which seek to point out Turkish heads, do not solve the problems. Moreover, most fan and rock groups have exemplary sports behavior. We cannot point out to all fans and fans of men's football, when it is a minority who are guilty and who do not represent the values of sport. They cannot pay righteous for sinners. Let us not fall into generalization and make proposals based on fears, social alarm or the legitimate pain of direct victims. Doing what you have been doing these past weeks is a lack of absolute, short-term, electoral responsibility and, moreover, is clearly ineffective. It serves no purpose; it does not serve to build that society free from violence and insecurity that citizens want. You have come here today to offer, like the Romans, a head, saying that that will solve the problems. And that's not true. That's not true, Mrs. Llanos. Today you, a problem that is serious, want to solve it with false solutions and demagogy. And no, we're not going to support them in their attempt. Plus, they're gonna have us in front of them. But if today the People's Party finds this broth of cultivation it is not just because there is a serious problem of violence in sport, it is because this government, the PNV and the PSE government, has not put a single solution on the table. The void, the Government's non-existent work to prevent and eradicate violence in sport has put the breeding ground, but that has already been addressed in the previous point. We have already drawn attention to Mr Zupiria for his poor management of this matter; now what we have now is an assessment of the security policies that the Government has put on the table. And honestly, we have to tell them that, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we do not support or support the government's policy in this area. It is necessary to change the course of what has been done so far. But we also tell them one thing; we tell them in a constructive way: our amendment to the motion of the People's Party seeks, precisely, to offer alternatives to correct that bad direction of the Department of Security. A Directorate of Ertzaintza that does not speak with its staff of agents is not sustainable. It is absolutely unacceptable that anyone is threatened with applying the law gags. No one, Mrs. Beltran of Heredia, no one. It is a misconception that the negotiation of the working conditions of the workers of the Ertzaintza has been blocked for years and generating situations of insecurity at work. It is indefensible that today, after the tragic events of 2012, with the death of Iñigo Cabacas, but also with the case of Xuban Nafarrete or with the case of Rosa Zarra, in this country, in the year 2018, the debate on rubber balls has become more topical. And yes, we advocate clearly and without any rodeos for banning rubber balls. We say this clearly, just as Amnesty International or the Council of Europe or Ararteko himself says. Now the question is, why are they still not prohibited? Why, if there is a consensus of prestigious human rights institutions and organizations, do rubber balls remain unprohibited? And we are in this situation because they did not want to get into the bottom of the matter, which is nothing other than that of means and measures. I insist on measures; effective alternative means and measures to deal with incidents. And I say "measures", because today, among other issues, the design of devices is fundamentally at stake. Indeed, you, the people who lead the Ertzaintza, the politicians, are right with the design of the police devices. And everything makes you think you don't. But, as I was saying, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we're not going to make wood from the fallen tree. We propose solutions; we propose an external and independent assessment of these devices. And, honestly, if you are so sure that the devices you design in your department are so good, what problem is there in assessing them objectively? What fear do they have that it will be someone external and independent who evaluates them? You're going to allow me to suggest that you don't convince us that it's you, the ones who design the devices, the ones who say whether they've worked or not. They're not exactly friends of self-criticism in your department. Yesterday, without going any further, it was checked again. Yesterday a group of ultras who arrived at the stadium San Mamés throwing firecrackers, flares and insults, a group of amateurs with a manifest aggressive attitude, managed to get into the forbidden material field; in this case, flares. It is true that we have improved on the device two weeks ago from the Spartak in Moscow, but there is much to be done. And these facts and yesterday's facts show this. Let no one misinterpret these words. Clearly, there are inevitable things. Hurting is very easy, unfortunately. There's no need for weapons or great means to do harm. But one thing is that there are situations that are avoidable and another is that mistakes occur, as everything points out yesterday. But there is more, today it is necessary to address the reform of the Law...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u30	Go to the end, Mrs. García.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u31	... Police – I'm done – and the Public Security System Organization Act. Yes, it's time to open the melon, and it's time to do it by talking to the Ertzaintza staff of agents. It's up to you to do it with dialogue; you can't stay locked up in your ivory tower. Good for sitting, finally, last week, with the body unions. Good for starting a dialogue, but there are no substantive solutions. Solutions to the Ertzaintza organization itself as a whole. Let us not deny the problems, as the government did in the previous control session, by Mr Zupiria's mouth, but let us not fall into the demagogy and in the search for Turkish PP heads. Let us opt for a sensible path, which is what a majority of Basques and Basques want. A path that moves forward, not one that retreats into freedoms and rights. Today there are alternatives, but something is needed that in this Government shines through its absence: courage to recognize problems and mistakes. Recognize them so that they can be corrected and shortened. Courage to defend the solutions that are needed and to stop slipping the bundle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u33	President, ladies and gentlemen. The important part of the debate we are holding today is in the compromise amendment. It is both in the content of the compromise amendment and in the spirit of that amendment. It is a majority pronouncement of this House, which I hope will have more support than the signatories, in which it shows, as it cannot otherwise be, solidarity with all those who have suffered violence; it shows, as it cannot otherwise be, a deep rejection of those who act violently; it calls for collaboration from all parties involved to eradicate these violent behaviours, and it also seeks to improve police action, to persevere in what has to be an ever better security scenario, so that this security holds between citizens and there are no episodes like those we have experienced. That is the content of the compromise amendment. But the spirit that arises also seems good to me. I think it is right that we should work together with the political groups in the task of security; I think it is right that we should strip the debate of the security of over-exposure and confrontation, because that is also a negative move to the citizenry, and because it seems to me that it also reduces the importance and the work that is being done on security. Being a cop is not easy; being a part of security is not easy. Having to prepare for what is not known to happen tomorrow is complicated and difficult. However, we have many men and women who are dedicated to this, who are officials of this Administration, who are professionals and who, beyond their problems and difficulties, even their tensions with their leaders and with those who manage this work, know how to overcome themselves and know how to act safely and give that security to the citizenry, taking risks, as they demonstrated yesterday and as they have always been demonstrating. I believe that yesterday there is a positive fact, and that is that it can be improved, it must be improved. The zero risk does not exist, nor does the perfect police security system exist. It is therefore an instrument under constant review, that of security. Self-reviewing and how it can be improved must be carried out on an ongoing basis. I believe that yesterday there was a demonstration of that situation. Therefore, I would fundamentally value that. Because I think that, when we start debates about these things, we go to dangerous scenarios, where I even feel uncomfortable and seem unpleasant, among other things, because I think that football – since it is one of the things we are talking about – is a beautiful and noble sport, which is played as a collective, which is played as a team, which is played in solidarity, where the ability of each one intervenes, where the intelligence, strategy, the plastic beauty that is generated, the skills,... and it seems to me that it is an excess to call violent football fans. I believe that violent people are fond of violence and that football fans are others, that we do not exercise violence, and we should also start to distinguish this. It is true that there are sectors of activity, of society, in which there may be specific moments where violence is concentrated. But, in fact, I am against criminalizing a sport – whatever it is – when there are so many millions and millions in the world of amateurs who see it in a quiet way, with passion, with admiration, and who do not generate absolutely any tension, and I think that we should stay there. I believe that sport must be treated as sport and violence treated as violence; those who practice violence also have parents, and we do not make a statement against the family; they also have professions, and we do not make a statement against their professions. Let us not do this either: let us not link them to sport. In any case, it is the place where you can feel safer, because of the concentration of many citizens, to commit crimes, to exercise violence, to violate the freedom and rights of people. But let us give them exclusively and radically the consideration of violent people and, therefore, of people to whom it must be placed where it belongs, with the application of the law and with preventive measures, outside any space where they can practice violence. I believe the Ertzaintza deserves recognition once again. He deserves it always; but, once again, he deserves recognition, consideration and praise for the work he is doing. I believe that they are also entitled to raise their demands and their improvements in working conditions, like everyone else, but that they must not be mixed with the activity they carry out in order to ensure compliance with the law and to guarantee security for people. I believe that the plans must be differentiated and I believe that each of them must be taken with the prudence and in the appropriate field, and I believe that the initiative that has been presented, together with the compromise that will finally be adopted in this Parliament, allows that; it allows us to delimit each of the things. It seems to me that it follows a constructive vision to deal with this issue; it seems to me that it is also the case of political parties with responsibilities of government, which sooner or later we also face having to operate with operations and ensure the safety of citizens and, therefore, let us strip ourselves of confrontation, of public over-exposure to security and of common sense, of effectiveness, of unity, of respect and of consideration for those who do and practice this public activity. And that would leave me, that I believe is the substance of this debate that we are having today, and that it has a tone and content and an infinitely more positive conclusion than that of some very close precedents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u34	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. In the previous item on the agenda of this plenary, there has been a general debate on the issue of violence in sport and, of course, many of the considerations that have been made are immediately transferable to the motion put forward by the People's Group, which we are now discussing. We will not repeat ourselves; we will only highlight two basic concepts, which we consider important to emphasize: First, sport has always been defined as a symbol of effort, of clean competition and of continuous overcoming, with the function of promoting values such as respect, tolerance, sports, non-discrimination of people; that is, values that clash frontally with the violent episodes that we have unfortunately been witnessing. We are faced with violent behaviors that have no place in sport. It's not acceptable. Yesterday, for example, on Radio Euskadi, an energumen – let's call it that – French said that flares, firecrackers, insults... They're part of football folklore. These people are left in sport; they're left in football. And secondly, violence in sport is a global problem, linked mainly to the world of football, which must also be addressed from a global perspective. And you have to cut it down a lot of ways. Violence obliges all public institutions to take all necessary measures to promote prevention and strengthen the control and punishment of violent behaviour. But, for its definitive eradication, it is also necessary to promote measures from the family, from school, from clubs, from federations, from UEFA (in the case of football)... , from all areas. In this regard, it is worth noting the example of joint collaboration between the Department of Culture and the Department of Security, which sent a letter to UEFA, in which, after expressing its concern about the proliferation of violent acts in football events, it requests it to take letters on the matter so that sport and violence are not mixed. These violent acts which have nothing to do with sport, which are very far from sports activity, are now moving to an area, as has been said here, which is more connected with security and public order. I think you'll share with me that the last thing you have to do is resort to the police operation so that people can enjoy a sport show in peace. Mrs Llanos, with her motion, intended to highlight the issue of Athletic and also part of her hobby, and we also understand that of the Security Adviser. What happens is that events have not been given in the most propitious way to achieve their goal. I wanted to transfer a worrying and serious general, global problem, as I said earlier, to a particular case: that of the incidents that occurred in Bilbao on 22 February. Yes, in that interrogation he called the operation of February 22nd. – which he did not say today – about a harmful organization. He said he was better today. So, yes, he had the detail of qualifying the operation – I thought he wasn't going to do it and he had the question planned – but he did. But that "was better", because I don't know how to qualify it, to what point of appreciation. And I also believe that we must be honest, and I think that you, Mrs Llanos, will also share it with me, even if you do not say so, that the assessment of the operation on 22 February had a determining and deterring factor in that assessment, as was the unfortunate death of Innocent Alonso. The objective assessment of this operation I do not know if it had been the same in the event that this unfortunate event, death, had not occurred. And each party has a different operation; none is the same, as is the case with the actions of the Civil Guard or the National Police elsewhere. Yesterday, in the Madrid neighbourhood of Lavapiés, there was an incident that resulted in a dead man, 20 wounded, many of them police officers who intervened in that operation, burnt containers, destroyed banks, etc. So, starting from this point, what we really need to thank is your inextremity. The transactional motion, the transactional amendment, to which we have arrived shows our sorrow and solidarity with the Ertzaintza and with the family and people close to Agent Inocencio Alonso García, who died in the context of the violent events of 22 February in the esplanade of San Mamés, and we have also included in the transactional amendment our solidarity with the two security guards wounded last night inside the camp of San Mamés, wishing them a prompt recovery, and also to the attacked photographer. It should also be pointed out that there are three persons detained by the Ertzaintza for these acts, for whom strict application of the law will be required. Secondly, we showed our most absolute rejection of the serious violent events starring radical amateurs – said Mr Txarli Prieto to call them amateurs..., yes – by radical people of the two amateurs that night, of the Athletic and Spartak of Moscow, and also of the Olympique of Marseilles yesterday. This point is forgotten by Elkarrekin We can in his amendment; I do not know whether it is a deliberate forgetfulness or not. Irmoki baztertu behar dugu kirolaren aitzakiaz egondako indarkeriazko jarrera eta jokabide gold, edonork eginda era. And we must also make it clear that these violent behaviors have no place in the world of sport or in our society. Therefore, these two points, I believe that all of us here should approve and ratify them fully, if I do not believe that we have a problem. And for our part there would be no problem, if some group is not going to vote in favour of our compromise amendment, in which these two points are voted on independently. But we also highlighted points three and four of your proposal, because, as you said, they focused exclusively on Athletic – as you have been told here – when we were talking about a global problem, which affects or can affect all sports clubs. That is why our amendment did not focus exclusively on those events of 22 February in Bilbao, but went further and addressed all the Basque sports clubs, urging them to establish in their statutes, both in admission procedures and in disciplinary procedures, concrete measures to prevent people with violent behaviours contrary to the values of sport from being part of their social mass, whether they are allegedly radical or not. The State Commission against Violence, Racism, Xenophobia and Intolerance in Sport was urged to continue to exercise its sanctioning power with those who engage in violent conduct in sports venues, especially by ensuring that such spaces are not accessible to such persons or, where appropriate, groups, which was added to the transactional. This is in line with its fifth point and serves not only for those who exercised violence on 22 February, but also for possible future situations, and not only to prohibit access to San Mamés, but also to any other sports venue located in Euskadi. Nor did we share, Mrs Llanos, the third and fourth points of her motion, since it was a generalization, let us say, generalization – here we have talked about criminalization – to an entire collective only because it was a member of the same; moreover, it was literally saying that the status of partner is withdrawn to any person who is identified as part of the collective. We asked: Have you ever committed violent acts or not? If he has not committed, it seems incredible to us; we do not share that approach. Of course, we do share the view that specific and individualized people who show a violent attitude, be they from that group or not, are subject to the sanctions that are legally appropriate. It seemed like an excess to us! Also tell him that the State Commission against Violence in Sport has made a list, which has made it to the clubs at the end of 2017, in which he points out that there are nine ultra-risk groups that are still active in Spanish football, six of them in Primera teams, and there is not the collective to which you referred in your motion. It also called for a ban on the display of any identifying symbols of that collective, Herri Norte Taldea. In this regard, the report of the State Commission against Violence of last season, on the causes of the proposed sanctions, notes in the section banners or propaganda inciting violence, which have been reduced from 18 to six, and makes no special mention of the aforementioned collective. Finally, in our final point of the amendment of the whole, which has then been included in the transactional, we propose to urge the Department of Security of the Basque Government to continue working with the union representation of the Ertzaintza in order to implement the necessary improvements in the Mobile Brigade, in order to gain in effectiveness and guarantee the security of the citizens and of the agents of the Ertzaintza in the development of the operations. As you are well aware, the Ertzaintza Council, a joint consultation and proposal body of the Ertzaintza, where representatives of the department and trade union representatives are represented, met on 7 March and reached an agreement to address a work plan for the modernization of the Mobile Brigade. Bilateral meetings have been held with the various trade union representatives on Tuesday, the 13th, and these meetings will continue on Monday, the 19th. Horren aurrean, gure taldeak eskatzen du kirolean eskatzen dugun gauza bera: respectua eta joko garbia. We demand that both the representatives of the political parties and the trade union representatives exercise their responsibility, leaving behind totally irresponsible statements, which are in no way conducive to negotiations. Libreki negociatzeen utziko diegu bai Segurtasun Saileko arduradunei, bai sindikatuen ordezkariei. Let them dialogue and reach agreements, but from respect for each other's sphere of competence and functions and that they are beneficial for the workers, but above all for the public security service that must be provided to Basque society, which is a basic pillar of the social welfare model with which we have been endowed. Mrs Llanos said that we must move from words to facts; it is with facts as public safety is ensured – we share it. What I would ask you: what facts do you bring to this? With many words, but with what facts in particular it contributes. With regard to Elkarrekin's amendment We can, in principle, be such a totum revolutum First: who do you think meets the qualities necessary, in addition to being independent, to carry out those evaluations that you propose in your third point? With regard to the processes of amending and creating laws, I believe that I have held some seminar on parliamentary law, and we all know where and how and what the procedures and mechanisms are, including for citizen participation. Another question would be: since the inauguration of Mrs Beltrán de Heredia in December 2012, in these five years and three months, can you tell me how many rubber balls have been thrown at this time? That would be the next one. And the last and not a question – well it could also be – is that the Department of Security, as you will know and as you know, has an obligation to comply with the current legal framework, which you may like and which you may not like, and, in this case, the Law on Citizen Security is in force and who fails to comply with the law has to be responsible for its consequences, and you already know that it is an organic law and, therefore, its amendment corresponds to the General Courts and, therefore, that is where it should be amended. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u36	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. A group without correction, representative of the EH Collect Group, madam, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u37	Yes, good afternoon to all; thank you, Your Excellency, for giving me your word. "The fanatic is the fan in the asylum. The mania of denying the evidence has ended up pecking at reason and whatever it may seem, and the wreckage remains are drifting in these boiling waters, always troubled by unbridled fury. "The fanatic arrives at the stadium wrapped in the club's flag, the face painted with the colors of the beloved T-shirt, erected with strident and blunt objects, and already along the way has been making a lot of noise and a lot of mess. He never comes alone. Placed in the bar brave, dangerous centipede, the humiliation becomes humiliating and scares the fearsome. "The omnipotence of Sunday conjures the obedient life of the rest of the week, the bed without desire, the job without vocation or no job: liberated for a day, the fanatic has much to avenge." (Eduardo Galeano) I wanted to start my interference with these words. And why? Because it's very clear what Galeano's writer is and what's capable of. When we're talking about violence, what we're talking about and what we're talking about, and when this separation is done, it connects it with the routine and the real reality of this society. And I think these words are very expressive, and, beginning with these words, I will tie them to the second part, with my intervention. But before we begin, I want to make two things very clear: On the one hand, the Basque Country is not protected by violent football... Violence doesn't support football and it doesn't agree. Let's make it clear for all of us. That's what I want to be clear about. The second, us too, at his moment... all our spokesmen had given our support to those two persons who had been wounded yesterday at the edge of the border, and even today. And in saying this, what I'm going to say is another thing: It's probably football that's probably the one with the tops of his fan. I probably doubt that. And it is true that when this sports go forward, or when it does, we have often seen them in and out, and have probably lived violence. News such as the death of Aitor Zabaleta or that of the devotee of Depor, of the death of the ertzaina, of the death of Iñigo Cabacas, have surely left us more than once perplexed and it is difficult to understand why these situations still occur today and there is so much violence both inside and outside the fields. So much aggressiveness is not understandable and, by extension, it is not understandable that when we go to San Mamés or some other football field, let's think who touches us next door, because we can have close a fanatic of these described by Eduardo Galeano. Eta beasts gauza gehiago: Cappak esaten zona... Ziur aski, denok ezagutuko duzue nor zen edo nor den: "Violence in football, all studies say, is a reflection of what is in society, and this society, as it is today, expresses in the ranks its anger, frustration and aggressiveness that accumulates in their daily lives." This didn't mean it was acceptable, but it is a reality that we suffer every day or see. And in front of this, it won't be enough to try things alone in a punitive way. and this is what the proposition does not, which the original proposition does not, and which the other does not, as the agreement is proposed. Beast aldehyde, zergatik gaude gaur hemen, age zergatik gaude honetaz hitz Egypt? Ba, gertatu zelako gertatu zena ore of gutxi Spartak etorri zenean Bilbora, Athleticen aurka party jokatzera. And at that point, all the alarms went off. All the alarms jumped over what had happened, and all sorts of reproaches arrived, conjecture arrived, speculations, accusations... And at that time and surely following specific and specific interests, and supported also certainly by a social alarm, which in many cases has been sponsored by the media, we have had after the incidents absolutely everything. We have had social networks set on fire; we have had statements from the Athletic Club; we have had statements from the Ertzaintza, the parties, the media, pointing guilty, and the bill that has brought us here today. And in this proposition, as to the first point, I have said what I have to say, but I will say more. That's what we said, but even San Mames did and the union was expressed. The whole of San Mames, including the rank of the people, and within the ranks of the village, was silent. He was very quiet, and that's not what you say. That's not what you're saying. [[Words]] For a minute he was silent. And that's the main thing. Then they cried out, but we'll talk about it. "Serious incidents starring radical fans", aipatzen du Llanos anderek. Mrs. Llanos says that they are the triggers of that situation that was generated later. And he also says that they were fucked, that they were taken away, I don't know how many things... Well, I've had a chance to see the police attestation. And if we go to sheet 192 et seq., we'll see where the fuckers got caught, and the fuckers got caught in front of a bar, the Athletic. No radical amateur was there at the time... And on Ingeniero Torres Quevedo Street. No radical amateur was there at the time... He says these people started the incidents. It's not true either... The police attestation expressly states who was there, and none relates it to Herri North Talde or any other group that Athletic has legalized. That's not true; none of them are there for that reason. But he says more things; he says these people were in the vicinity. It's not true either... They arrived at the camp an hour later, because they had requested permission for a concentration, for this concentration and were all detained. [[Show some pages]] - No, no, no, They weren't there when the incidents occurred. Then your argument to bring this to you is wrong. And what I don't like is using one thing to make another proposal or anything. Take an example and make it the truth. You see, things didn't happen that way. Even in this proposal, it is also mentioned that it is to be told of Athena what she should do... Well, Athl's been telling me what he's going to do. Far off the gentleman said, and the Athl does what is necessary when it comes to them. And the Athltics have some states, and here they are. [[Show some pages]] - No, no, no, If you want, Mrs. Llanos, I'll give them to you, so you can read them... Well, if you have them, read them. Because look, on the page... Article 19 et seq. states how the statutes are amended, and article 78 explains what the sanctioning regime is and what needs to be done. And you know what to do? Among other things, go to the compromise assembly. And enter through the front door into the compromise assembly and not through the back door, through a motion that is made in Parliament or an agreement that is made in Parliament in a transaction, to urge a private entity to do what we are interested in. Let's do it, if we want to do it – I have no problem – by the front door. But not using these kinds of arguments. And there is a second and final question, which has to do with what is raised in the proposal, and it is said that we need to talk about how the Ertzaintza has to act and what needs to be done. And true, it is true; I agree with it, I quite agree with it. But I don't think the road is either this or that it's a transaction signed. What I think is we have to talk about the police model, we have to see what changes we have to do and how we have to do it. And we must probably begin to make changes, see how we choose to include people in that group, and what measures we must make when we choose them, and what preventive measures we must take when things have to be done. I agree with that. But that's another debate, and that's what we have to do in another context. We have to do that debate when the law comes. Let us see when we bring this law, which is to be treated in order to do all the changes we have to do, and in truth to treat it. And what I see in the proposition, and afterwards in the amendment, is, to turn or correct the measure. No proposal! Mrs Llanos – and now I'm finished, Madam President – tells us that the reason or one of the reasons for your proposal is that we have to take preventive action. That we have to separate football from violence, that we have to do it all together and that we have to do it also with preventive approaches. Not a single preventive proposal, all are urging to do things to sanction; not one, not one, not in their motion or on which they have agreed. Not one, not one! Because also Mr Zorrilla has told us the same thing: measures from all areas, not one, not one. Maybe I'd like to explain this in my first round, and I'll go in second with that amendment, to explain what our vote will be in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u38	Thank you, madam. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u39	Thank you again, Madam President. Okay, I'll start at the end. Mrs Goirizelaia, do not be confused; nor are we the assembly of the Athletic partners, in which, in one case, you have defended this directive which is currently in place and has acted to get this directive out at the moment; nor are we in court, because I cannot know the attestations, because obviously no one from Herri Norte is going to call me to assist you, for sure. Sure. Sure... With this, I cannot know in detail the point, the moment, at which they were requisitioned and to whom they were requisitioned. But, Mrs Goirizelaia, if you intend to cover the sun with a finger, well, you still live in that parallel world, in which everyone else sees terrorist violence, while you see political violence, right? Because the bonding... that Herri Norte was the one who started the incidents, that they were requisitioned, that has appeared in the media; I say, I have not had access to the attestation, but that is what they have said from the council itself. And that North Herri is linked to the most radical abertzale left is clear, not only for its defense here today, but because the pro-ETA radicals of Amnesty Ta Askatasuna took 24 hours to get out in defense of North Herri, issuing a communication: "Our movement wants to show its support to North Herri and all the other anti-fascists of yesterday in Bilbao. You will have us at your side in front of the campaign of criminalization of the fascist media that the media are carrying out with you." Within these fascist media, it must also be, I say, the police unions, trade unions such as ESAN, which I believe are not closely associated with the People's Party, which were the ones who called for Herri North to be expelled from San Mamés. And we obviously talked to the Athletic. Moreover, the Athletic has not felt attacked by our motion, at all, at all... And the Athletic what it wants is the right means, precisely, to get the violence out of football, and the actions as we put, some of them, in our motion and which are also included in the compromise amendment. Then they didn't feel attacked at all. Why did I mean Athletic? Because the events took place in a certain place, which was Bilbao, and in a certain party, with a certain team, which was Athletic. What might it seem to me to extend it later to the other teams? Yeah, but that was the reason. Mrs. Garcia, you're talking about agitating emotions. The truth is that we are already accustomed, Podemos and demagogia are absolutely united: you could change the name, the truth, and call yourself Podemos and Demagogia, which would be perfectly adjusted to reality. Because when you stir up emotions, then you are listening to the citizenry; when you are other political groups, especially the People's Party, then we are creating alarmism, we are not listening to the citizenry, which was alarmed by the incidents in Bilbao the other day; no, no, we are making alarmism. And you're talking about Ertzaintza and I'm actually glad; I'm glad that in relation to Ertzaintza you don't share what Mr. Iglesias has ever said: "I'm deeply excited when I see a protester beating the police." I'm glad, I'm glad... No, don't do it like that. Don't do it like that, because also a partner has told me and I've been looking for it expressly, and he has said it like that. And of course security... That we have not made concrete approaches? Of course we have to push. I told him: we all have to get the violent out of football, and for that we must urge the teams not to admit them as partners and the teams not to admit them in football matches if they are partners and it is shown that they are violent. And I'm going to refer, lastly, to Mr. Zorrilla... Thank Mr Prieto for his words. I cannot agree more with many of the issues you have raised and the recognition you have made of Ertzaintza. And you, the truth is that you have surprised me as a defender of an indefensible cause, because defending Herri North and saying that it is risky to point out Herri North. Do you really believe that when Zabaleta was killed by the Athletic Front, someone warned of the risk of pointing to the Athletic Front? I mean, come on, really, I think that defending that is defending a lost cause, and I'm actually not going to insist anymore. But I'll take the positive, I'll take the deal. You say – I don't have time –... Of course the operation was better, but it is that the initiative that we approved here today is an amendment to the Council's own action in previous times, which has not sat down to negotiate, which has not organized the operations well, which, as it says at the last point, is now going to improve the organisation of the brigade and the operations. And I am left with that, with the positive of that agreement and, as I have said before, with us moving from words to facts, because I am in the opposition and I am few facts...; I am not the counselor. What I can do here is to control the government, which is the role of the legislature, and make proposals, which we have done here today and with which we have fortunately agreed and signed a compromise amendment, which we are very happy about. And let's hope that, among all of us, we put the granite sand so that violence and football never come together again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u40	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u41	Thank you, señora, president. Basque citizenship wants to remain safe. It wants an Ertzaintza that is effective in its protection and that happens, gentlemen of the government, gentlemen of the PNV and the PSE, to change the model of citizen security. We need to bet, but really bet, on prevention. We need a participative security model, participated by the citizenry itself. We need a more coordinated and integrated model among the different police and security forces, as we saw yesterday. And, in addition, we need an efficient, above all efficient, citizen security model, but citizen security does not exhaust itself in the police area; on the contrary, it has many other dimensions that must be valued. This efficiency is not achieved by denying dialogue, it is not achieved without evaluation, it is not achieved with rubber balls, it is not achieved with the law gag; not only do we not want to be applied to the agents of the Ertzaintza, we also believe that the Ertzaintza should not apply that law gag to any Basque citizen. And it is not a matter of our group, gentlemen of the government, of the Nationalist Party, or of the Socialist Party. This House, this Parliament, agreed in June 2016, and it did so with its votes in favour, so to speak; it is now up to us to ask whether this government is going to take the opposite of what this Parliament voted on and whether it is going to ignore what they voted on the law in June 2016. This is not a rhetorical game; we say it with light and tachygraphs: if you choose this path of courage, you will have us at your side, to close the way to an avid, eager People's Party, to make a demagoguery about this issue, a demagoguery that damages Ertzaintza and that damages Basque society. Our hand is stretched out, really stretched out to solve problems; now, if you choose otherwise, if you remain installed in self-congratulation, in the lack of self-criticism and in that drift that leads nowhere, you will have us in front, constructively, without demagoguery, without agitating emotions, but pointing out your mistakes when they do wrong. We really insist that you take this proposal into consideration; it is not done by doing nor are they empty words; creanos. Mr. Zorrilla, you are not going to give lessons to Elkarrekin We can reject violence; it has not been a neglect or a forgetfulness: it was included in our intervention and even in the previous motion that has been discussed. Then you look at her, and check it out... To what you have asked me, the problem is not who evaluates, it is perhaps the real problem is that you do not want it to be evaluated, and the problem with rubber balls is that you, by agreeing with parties like the People's Party, embolden those who do speak of rubber balls as an effective measure within security. On the law gag, I think I've already answered you before, and it's you yourselves who voted one thing and now you're disdaining yourself. Mrs. Llanos, you too should change your name, you should be called Corruption S.A., and I think it's much worse. Basque citizenship wants prevention; it wants security problems, such as the incidents that have occurred in relation to professional football, to be answered as the leading societies in Europe do, that our police have tools to deal with such situations, but these tools do not put people's lives or physical integrity at risk. Basque citizenship wants football clubs to get involved to tackle this situation. It is clear that we need more and better resources, and to do so in a modern, preventive and human rights-friendly key; we need to tackle these problems from dialogue, without demagoguery, without shortcuts, without looking for Turkish heads. We believe in a security model where people must be the center of a model, which contributes to a more supportive, fairer, more democratic and more egalitarian society; let the news be when they win the men's or women's teams of different modalities, not what happens around different sporting events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, don't talk. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u43	Yes, thank you. Well, Mrs. Llanos, I think that, when I talked about that extensive generalization or criminalization that I intended, I made it very clear. He said that we understand that specific and individualized persons who commit violent acts must be punished, but we do not understand that generalization by being a member. I think that – I don't know if you're sure; I don't have it – in the incidents that occurred on February 22 at the St. Mam's esplanade, not all Athletic fans who were there were probably from North Herri, not all of North Herri were there; I don't have that certainty, but we could be sure and I think that will share it with me. I believe that here it has been said that there is no affinity with that group; what if we defend is justice – here too it has been said. And I think an example can understand that well. Your party has 800 positions involved in so-called corruption crimes; would you therefore understand that there would be an initiative to request that all positions of the People's Party be disqualified from holding such public office? For these extensive generalizations make no sense at all. Secondly, well, and indeed the statement made by Herri Norte says that "for the past two seasons we have received more than 60 administrative sanctions", therefore, the Department is not that it makes much less of a blind eye to this group; the one who makes it, because it pays, has to pay it, logically. I was telling you that you talk a lot, many words, that are very good, but that you could bring with you facts and you say that you are not part of the government; of course, you are not part of the government, but the impulse function can do things to improve the situation and I want to give you a couple of examples, just here: Well, I think you have highlighted – and also some trade union centres – those problems that exist in the Ertzaintza, and one of them I think we share, that it is the aging of the staff and that it is necessary a generational relief, and the second may be the lack of means and more agents, that goes together with the previous one. You know the problems of auctions that have occurred with vehicles, for example. What has your party proposed in this regard? Regarding the first, regarding the generational relief, what they have done is the challenge for a few years of the OPE of the Ertzaintza, blocking that generational relief and causing a greater progressive aging of the body of the Ertzaintza. And also an urgent NLP in February 2014 – which you also carried – which sought to remove the age limit for entering the Ertzaintza access tests, which is set at 35 years; that is, we have an ageing problem and you want to remove the limit for people to enter, as I said, 36 or 45 – why they would not enter, if at that time they had the corresponding skills. That is a first example, and another example we could also put in relation to the budgets, which I believe is the most important tool for the implementation of public policies. In the 2017 and 2018 budgets, which are those of this last legislature, in particular in 2017, you, of the 134 partial amendments you submitted, know how many you submitted to the Department of Safety, section 11? None, none, none; contributions, facts, none. In 2012, yes; sorry, in the 2018 Budgets, yes, in the 2018 Budget they have tabled two amendments, the 584 to include an agreement with Stop Accidents, for 25,000 euros, and the 500,000 euros for the renovation of vehicles of Arab Minones. And it could also have given facts, but not only that, but the other day we attended the Committee of the Institutions' oral question to the adviser on the procedure for the purchase of bulletproof vests and covers for agents and agents, and you little less question her procedure. Therefore, as you say, I will keep your expression "the facts, less words and more facts; we must move on to the facts". As for Mrs García, in the first one you said literally that "we do not fall into demagogy"; for, well, I believe that both in the first and in the second intervention is what you have done here today. He says he doesn't want it evaluated... You haven't answered the two questions I asked you. It says that what happens is that we do not want it to be evaluated; for, I do not know the knowledge you have of the operatives, but the operatives, given the culture of continuous improvement of the Ertzaintza, are evaluated. All operations are evaluated. And I repeat to you again: tell me who has more knowledge than Ertzaintza herself to evaluate with all the collectives and the coordination that involves an operation of this magnitude, to know how to evaluate these operations. But you haven't told me, if you tell me, it's the Civil Guard or the National Police; I don't know, tell me who has that ability to evaluate operations. She hasn't answered how many rubber balls have been thrown since the counselor's been in the department. Zero, I'm telling you, zero... Politics is not born when you arrive; these measures have been implemented for five years. Five years! Perhaps this measure, as I said before, has to be put to other places; for example, in Madrid, where I believe you are ruling and where, as I said before, this evening we have made use of this anti-disturbing material. Finally, Parliament cannot call for non-compliance with a law and, therefore, we like the law more or less, we must comply with it. With regard to your extended hand, for I do not know, I believe that on Thursday I passed you our amendment proposal, before presenting it; we stayed in which you were going to talk to me and, up to now, you have not addressed yourself to talk to me at all; that is, the hand stretched in front of the gallery seems very good to me, but we must put it in motion. And I finish, with respect to EH Bildu, just –I don't know where I have the role, but well... – to say that, if that's what you say, because we accept – at least for my part; I don't know the rest of the proponents – the point vote to vote in favour of points 1 and 2 of absolute rejection of violence in sport and solidarity with the deceased ERTZAINE. And he says that no concrete measures are applied; I don't know what his own are; I don't know if he has heard the previous point. In the previous point, much has been said about the measures to be implemented in this area in order to definitively eradicate violence in football and sport. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u44	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. And finally, the representative of the EH Collect Group, madam, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u45	Again, good noon. Mrs Llanos, in fact, we are neither in the Athletic Assembly, nor in Parliament, nor in San Mamés – sorry – nor in the court. A lapse... We're in Parliament. What is the matter, that since we are in Parliament, we may be lacking in the truth? Do we have to say things that are not, to justify what we propose? Because that's what you're trying to do. You pretend that what you said is what happened. When I tell you that's not the case, you, instead of telling me why it's not, tell me: "Ah, we're not in court or at the Athletic assembly!". I've told you what I know and put in the police statement, and I haven't told you that I'm defending anyone from the detainees. I didn't tell you that... I told you that I've been worried about finding out what it says, and I've put it on you on the table and you're coming here to tell me another story. Okay. For you, as we are here, we may fail the truth. Well, look, this is one thing I don't do. No, no, Well, the problem is exactly the same is that you read too much what the media say, you trust too much what some media say that you have a goal and you come here...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u46	Miss Llanos, that's enough!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u47	... I didn't look at anything else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u48	That's enough!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u49	I'll tell you something else. Another thing, Mrs. Llanos. You spoke of ATA in your speech, to say that we support and do not know what... Look, all the people of Euskal Herria Bildu, absolutely all their spokesmen, have made demonstrations in relation to this collective of people and have said that they are outside the strategy of Euskal Herria Bildu, that we do not agree with what they say or with what they do. I don't know what else you need. That also came out in the media. Just like you read it hasn't come out. Like not, as only one reads, for even there has not gone out... I don't know, you'll tell me, but I'm pretty sure if I say it here and you tell me, I'm right. The Spanish Post Office will be called. One more thing I'll tell you about what the Athletic says. Indeed! Athletic doesn't feel attacked. I know. And I'm going to tell you more. An Athletic official spoke yesterday or before yesterday "I'm not very clear about the day." And you know what he said? That none of the detainees in that police operation was an Athletic partner. None of the detainees! I'm telling you because I was also saying it in that paper that you read. And we do what we do here, we do what we do here, that is, no to criminalization simply because we do. That's what we're proposing. Just make it clear to you. But I see one thing here in your proposal. Faced with the atrocious fear of being left alone by the People's Party, you have joined in this proposal by lowering your approaches in an exaggerated way. Yes, yes... You read what you proposed and you read what you have agreed, and then you tell me what approaches you have not downgraded, because we can analyze them one by one. Look, we are going to abstain from this proposal, and I have not asked to vote on points. We're going to abstain. And some of the issues I've explained before, but there are two that I think are important: The first one. The Basque Parliament urges the State Commission against Violence and Racism that intolerance do not know what, do not know how many more things... The question is who and how they exercise these actions, and why they do it and with what talent they do it. Because, look, these are the banners that pull the animation step out. [[Show a page]] - No, no, no, What's here? The picture of Iñigo Cabacas. Can't you ask for justice? And what do they ask for? Let the Athletic win. For these are the sanctions imposed by that institution that you want to keep moving forward, and these banners that appear down here nor Baltasar Garzón I the Unlawful. And you know what happened, Mrs. Llanos? That the Spanish courts have said that this was nothing and have withdrawn all sanctions, and are asking them to continue doing this. Well, we don't agree that that's the way it is. And the last question has to do with what the Department of Security and the unions are urged to do. Trade unions propose mechanisms to tackle violence in sport and to address these situations. And they pose rubber balls. They plant the use of rubber balls and there is a European regulation that says no. And there are judicial decisions – I will also tell Mrs Llanos, because she likes justice very much – that say that these rubber balls, as they are launched and as far away as they are, are lethal of necessity, and that is why we need to change. And they pose that to solve things. But besides, you here don't say anything else that you meet and keep doing things. We're not going to give a blank check to what's going to be done. No, no, And if we're going to do things, we're going to do them from Parliament. In the law we have to do, we will bring you the framework that will then allow you to adapt it, but we will not let you do what you want, because it does not seem to us to be the way to prevent, nor the way to give security. That's why our vote will be abscession because we don't see it... because we think that we ought to suppose things more precise and otherwise. And, Mr. Zorrill, I've heard the first debate. You don't seem to hear it. I don't know how many positive proposals Mrs. Rebeka has put on the table to guide and repair things. All her suggestions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u50	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u51	They're built to guide things in a positive way, and you haven't considered them. "You have made another amendment, and have not protected the things which he has set before you. I have heard very well what it has already said, and it was a very just repentance, and a remedy. And you didn't want to agree with him. Then don't say I didn't hear it. I heard very well. Looks like it was you who didn't hear it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u52	Thank you, madam. The discussion is over, and we'll vote for Popular Basque Groups, the half-correction signed by Basque Socialists and Euziobertists. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; Abstations, 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u53	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Punciation of the Law made by the Parliamentary Group, 155 of the Spanish Constitution still established in Catalonia. about revocation of the article. Discipline and final resolution. On the turn of the proposed team, Mrs. Iriart, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u54	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, members of the government, good morning. To tell you the truth, I've come with little hope this evening, or, rather, I'd have to say, I've come with very little faith this evening, because I know that the Spanish Government can destroy it tomorrow. And today all the members of the government who are sitting here may be removed from the charge tomorrow, I have already said that you may be in prison or exile. You and, no doubt, and us, because the claim of independence is very dangerous nowadays, I should say even more: Because now the proclamation for democracy is dangerous. All this may happen to-day, if the State of Spain decides so, as it already is. That's 155 of the Spanish Constitution. an app made by article. Perhaps an application against the Constitution of Spain itself, but that doesn't matter much. However, the Constitutional Court of Spain will not resolve anything to tickle the true power, though it occasionally throws something out of it. That's the situation. A real exposure situation. A real exposure situation they're trying to put us through as normal. But even if we know that we can't get things changed from day to day, we can't give up. We can't shut up in Europe in a completely abnormal situation. And we'll have to say it out loud every time we need it, every hint of democracy in Spain is disappearing. We must repeat that there is no division of power in Spain. We must repeat, that, together with the court of the Human Rights of Europe, there is no respect for freedom of expression in Spain. And we must repeat that, together with the court of the Human Rights of Europe, he is tortured in Spain. And now and again we must declare that Spain has placed its unity above anything else, and that it is ready for democracy and each other to defend the unity of dynamite. Nothing is more important than the union of Spain. In fact, Spain does not need 155; we know it perfectly in Euskal Herria for decades, and they continue to demonstrate it day by day. And to mention some cases, because look, the usual ones, but there is the Egunkaria case, the Gara case, the illegalization of parties, the Altsasu case... Ez du behar izan 155. artikulua; bath, unpunished guztiarekin, artikuluak berak dioena bath askoz harago egiteko skumena hartu du Statuak. Eta ziurgabetasa juridikoa salbuespenezko egorera razten nabera ebiltzea errezten donez artikulu horrek, haren indargabetzea eskatzen dugu. A State in which a judge, as much as a magistrate of the Supreme, is placed above the authority of the president of a parliament and decides that the candidate with the most support of the House, a deputy of his right, cannot submit to the investiture, because if he wins he will continue to be an independentist. A State where judicial decisions are made known in advance by members of the Government. A State in which the Constitutional Court has promptly granted precautionary measures that no one, absolutely no one, has asked for, and then forgets to resolve the appeal on the table. All these actions and many others: telephone espionages, fine-tuning of the Office of the Prosecutor, never denied to Constitutional magistrates... The list is certainly unmatched and trembling, and all these measures, he said, have not required article 155 at all. All these very serious measures have been taken without 155, because the Spanish State, even without 155, is a state of emergency. Spain doesn't need 155, because Spain is 155. And formally applying the article has been nothing more than a way of trying to humiliate an entire people, the Catalan people, to despise their institutions; in short, to make it very clear to them who has the skillet for the handle and so, in passing, to give us the warning to the rest. No 155 has been required to enter the headquarters of Ómnium and threaten anyone who protested with being arrested accused of sedition, or to enter the Palau de la Generalitat. Everything has been, everything is being, a boast, an act of prepotence, a punishment. In fact, 155 was not needed, because, I repeat, Spain is 155. Ez gaituzte isilduko hala ere, eta egoeraren larria salatzen jarraituko dugu, jarraituko dogun bezala egoera honek weretzuleak dituela esaten. Because it's not that it's raining, it's not that it's happening by divine design. This has responsibilities and are called the People's Party, the Spanish Workers' Socialist Party and the Citizens' Party. The three parties, and with these three parties, have decided that the Union of the United States is a unity of Spain above all things. And though it be known, because we have long known the real essence of a State which has been desirous of adorning it with the dress of democracy, and which has so clearly been so clearly explained, it changes the situation; nothing will be the same from now on, for Spain has begun to melt away its wax lime, and the darkness which is seen beneath it is hidden. They're seeing it all over the world, and they're getting it all over the world, and I hope here, even in the Basque Country, we'll all be able to see what's in the real heart of that state, no one's going to tell us what's happening in that face, what's seen in it when it melts, what's seen in that face is nothing but a little wrinkle. No... It's not a wrinkle, it's a big scar under the wax jet it's melting. The State of Spain is responsible for the democratic decision adopted by the inhabitants of Catalunia, and we cannot take this question from the caidistine. Five months ago, on the 16th of October, a Spanish judge put the presidents of Jordi Skinche and Jordi Cuixart, the Assemble of Naciolan, and the Presidents of the Alexandria Cultural. They've been in prison ever since, five months, as I said. And listen carefully, for the list is enormous: Carmel Forcadell, chairman of the Parliament of Catalonia; Raul Romeva, councillor of foreign affairs; Josep Rull, head of the country; Jordi Turull, head of the presidency; Dolors Basa, a member of the community and family, Councillory Meerchell Borrás, counsellor of the Governor; Carles Milad, counsellor of the Realty, are still in prison, Equina Junques, Vice President of the Catalan, and Joquiam, counsellor. In exile, Antoni Conilll, head of health, even the President of Generality, Carles Puigdemont. Zerrenda, ikusten duzuen bezala, isugaria da. That's the list. That is the "list of shame", of the shame with which the People's Party, the Socialist and Citizens' Party, and with which equidistance is charged. Then they'll say it's not his thing, that it's the judges' thing. Now! Look at the rigour of the Spanish justice system, which accuses certain citizens of extremely serious crimes, but which renounces to pursue them outside its borders, lest they do the most horrific ridiculous thing. Neither Belgium, nor Denmark, nor Switzerland, nor the United Kingdom, nor Luxembourg, nor the Netherlands; no one has asked them to arrest these people, who are accused of being dangerous criminals. They and they develop, by the way, at the highest level, their professional and political activity with complete freedom, while those who are already in prison are prevented from defending their ideas. If it is dangerous for Mr Sánchez to come to the Parliament of which he is a member because he is going to defend a project that seeks the independence of Catalonia, something for which the Catalans voted, the more dangerous it will be for him to do so from Brussels, from Copenhagen Mr Puigdemont, or Mrs Gabriel from Switzerland, etc. But the Spanish justice system refuses to pursue them, because it knows that it's going to make a gruesome ridiculous. This is demonstration. This is the demonstration, between hundreds of other proofs, to say that we are in the presence of a political trial, to say that they are political prisoners and political exiles, because the question is political, and the political solutions of political affairs were not given to them, will only disappear and perish. That's why we're asking for 155. the suppression of article, in Govern imprisoned for refendum 1 October I'm not going to read it all together of the middle course we agreed with Podemos. There you have it, and you can read it all. We have made a defense, as if a vast majority of this legislature should present itself to this state, in the presence of this continued state, and say that it is sufficient. I have at first remarked that I have little faith in the fact that the Spanish State will give a political solution to this subject. But the day will come when the Catalonias and the Basque People, without the collapse or collapse of the Spanish State, will find a solution, and the political problem today will become a political opportunity for both of our people, a political opportunity to build the future free. That's what we're working for. That's what we're working on. The difficulty, never give up. When Stephen Hawking's death left the stars crying, I'd like to finish with his words: The difficulty, never give up. We won't give up either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u56	Good morning, congressmen. Well, this is the sixth time, and we've talked six times in the last year about Catalan. And this alone, having related illegal proposals, will be many more questions, interpenetrations, and so on. But don't get me wrong. Together in Podemos we have no difficulty in discussing this matter, but we must also know whether we have more occasion for this discussion at the present moment. I believe that the position of all parties is very clear, that we have made it very clear for the last few months, and that they have not changed; but, well, we must discuss it, and there is no difficulty in discussing it. Well, 155 artikulua. Zer esan already ez duguna esan?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Elkarrekin Podemen, gure position argi daukagu: akats larry izan zen haren applikazioa eta, huta ére, jaiotzen da beste eredakzio-akats batakin, usten duena horren aplikazioa oso zabaala iza. In Elkarrekin We have a clear opposition to this; it was an error in its application, the application of Article 155, which starts with another drafting error, which gives rise to its use for any purpose. In this sense, within the deep constitutional reform that we believe needs to be done, for this would be obvious one of them, of the changes they have to make. That is why we have agreed on a text, in which we have been able to agree Euskal Herria Bildu and our party, Elkarrekin Podemos, and which I understand that the Basque Nationalist Party also supports and that we will logically vote in favour. But beyond the vast majority that will be evident in this House, this majority is not given in Madrid, and it does not exist and is not fundamentally given by the Socialist Party, which prefers to continue sucking the wheel of the People's Party and Citizens in a crazy race to see which of them is more centralist and conservative. The truth is that there they and there those who, without blush, pact with the parties. Today we will probably listen to Mr Egibar being the most sovereignist of the sovereignists, but because his party is also the one that is negotiating the next budgets, despite 155; in fact, today a news has already been published that reaffirms us in this approach that he is having with the Spanish Government in the newspaper El País. And frankly, today in this House we will come to an agreement, an agreement on a very concrete, necessary content, but it is also true that the agreement begins and ends with this text. Returning to the situation in Catalonia, and beyond the formal question of Article 155, on which I have just been very clear, we believe that other solutions, immediate solutions, which depend to a large extent on them and themselves, are required. Those solutions, in our view, begin with dialogue. Kataluniak hitz egitea behar du; hitz egitera eseri behar dira; berriro ere begiartara begiratu behar diote elkarri, akordio minimotara heltzeko. Right now, I'm trying to get a hold of you. It is untenable because of the clever and alarming application that has been made – and continues to be made – to the Catalan citizenry of Article 155. They have not only been deprived of their ability to govern themselves, which is extraordinarily serious; they have also been deprived of the possibility of taking measures to solve many of their major serious problems, such as unemployment, social cuts in education and health, or even corruption. And this has been done in a premeditated way; it was part of that solution designed by Moncloa and Ferraz. That is why, today in Catalonia, citizens urgently need a government. It is difficult to understand and to share that, months after the elections, with an article 155 above, with the problems that Catalan citizens have, let us continue with this situation of blockade, and succeeding proposals of governments in exile, double governments, calls of plenums of investiture in the Parliament This situation is unsustainable and hardly excusable; it is not even excusable in 155. On this issue, that of the Catalan politicians and citizens, also of those who are in prison, we have also been very clear in Elkarrekin Podemos: they are simply a misconception and an attack on the most elementary democratic sense of a rule of law. Today the situation in Catalonia, every passing day becomes more complicated. We need, more than ever, a sincere dialogue, which lays the foundations for an agreement that will allow the social fracture not to grow, that will allow Catalan citizens to look back to the future with hope, and for that reason, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we reaffirm ourselves over and over again, in the need to derail the situation, to reduce tension and that is achieved through dialogue. A dialogue that happens every day is more necessary than ever, but more difficult to produce than the day before. A dialogue which, in our view, has to lay the foundations for Catalan citizenship to find a democratic mechanism to decide on its future, a mechanism which generates the agreement of a very broad and cross-cutting majority, because in this type of situation neither the majority of half plus one is worth, nor is it worth refusing to agree to block the situation without The recipe, in our opinion, is simple: dialogue, dialogue and more dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u57	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u58	Gracias, president. Well, in a mild and moderate tone, so I don't get mad at Mrs. Iriarte. I honestly thought – ingenuously, certainly – that this series had ended, but it has been four months since the nationalist majority of this Parliament, both animated and useless, supported all the steps that had been taken to lead Catalonia to the blockade, and today, I fear that, in the same animated but also useless way, it will ask the Madrid Government – I do not know whether it refers to the Government of Cifuentes or to the Government of Mr Rajoy, because it continues to give them allergy to speak of Spain – to do what they cannot do: to change the Constitution on their own and intervene in judicial decisions. This is what you're going to do. And before that, the Socialists are going to defend again what we have defended on every occasion that Bildu has brought to us, and we think it will be the only way out of this mess, and that way out, we said in our amendment, is negotiation, pact and consensus, following the existing legal procedures to solve the political problems, and that is something that works in Spain and works in the rest of Europe, exactly the same. Because the raison d'être of democracy is that, that of the agreement between the different ways of understanding a country following the rules of play that have been agreed, and despite what Bildu claims – and has done so again today – there is no European institution, none, Mrs Iriarte, that has supported not one of the steps that Catalan independenceists have taken so far; not one. Today we will probably continue to deny that opportunity to send this solidarity message to all Catalans, and once again, words of encouragement for the independenceists will come out of here. I thought the fever had passed, but it seems not and it is good to remember again that the Catalan people do not constitute only the two million citizens who voted independent options, they are also the Catalan people the more than two and a half million who did not, and of those you always forget. And the subsequent events, such as the holding of elections – fully democratic, by the way, contrary to what the proposer says in his justification, and by the way, fully accepted, both in his development and in his outcome, by all the Catalan political forces without exception – had ended up disarming the arguments that had been coming out. We also believed that, after that last time – in November, I think it was when we discussed this issue – that nationalist majority had also assumed that social majority – even among those who voted for them – and that what the social majority of this country said is that they do not want, by far, something like what is happening and what the Catalan independenceists are causing, that the succession of sociometers, deustobarometers, euskobarometers, EiTB Focus and any other survey that was carried out on those dates offered very strong data: that only 4% of Basques are concerned about these issues that you are striving to bring to the full every two by three; that just 24 % support things like those that are being brought to us today; that two-thirds reject the flightist and escapist attitudes like that of Mr Puigdemont, former president, that are the ones that are causing this long agony of the "proces", a figure similar, indeed, to the idea of those who reject this evil idea. And there is also a majority, in all surveys, who do not like the application of 155, it is true, and there they can find us too. Because you will remember that this party, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, the Basque Government, through the lehendakari Urkullu, exhausted until the last second for Mr Puigdemont to do what he could and did not want, which is to call an election that would have prevented the implementation of 155. And then he said a lot of things, of which, by the way, he was doomed, like if he won the election he would immediately come to Catalonia to take possession, which seems to be not willing. And it is true that we do not like a government to squander the self-government that cost so much to conquer its elders, to pull through the entire legal framework that it had agreed and to force the intervention of other powers to ensure that citizens continue to receive the public services for which they continue to pay those taxes. As we share with that social majority that the action of the Government of Spain in those years is, of course, one of the reasons why a political problem that we recognize has been found, that the campaign to collect signatures first and that subsequent paralysis, abusing its absolute majority and breaking all the bridges of dialogue, were probably the best breeding ground for aggravation and for some to play with feelings of identity, rather than focusing on the social rights of the whole citizen, to which Mr Martínez referred in his speech. And by the way, the previous Catalan government was not, precisely, one of those that was meant to make a social policy precisely, much less; quite the contrary. Socialists are extraordinarily critical of the Rajoy government, but what we are talking about today is what the Catalonian government and the majority of that Parliament did last October, under a fiction that they alone had designed in September. And what happened was that Catalan independence was the one that charged its institutions of self-government, knowing that it did, and it is Catalan independence that continues to have the key to recovering it today, but instead independence becomes strong in 155. He even seems to enjoy it. Since there are already those who deal with the day-to-day work of the people, bad than good, to pay the payroll of the officials, and to open the blind of schools and hospitals, the independenceists dedicate themselves to what they like: to solve their internal cultas, more likely to solve personal problems than the problems of everyone. And so we are! First the commitment to invest president Jordi Sánchez has the right to the presumption of innocence, but he has no right to condition Catalonia's future to his personal future, as Mr Puigdemont does. His candidacy can solve a problem of independence; but, of course, it does not solve the governability of a country. And it turns out – quite frankly, it seems to us – quite tired of that independenceist effort not to seek political solutions and to be jealous in the permanent pulse with Justice. It is tiring that, in the exercise of their defense, those who are in prison say that October was a joke and that it is not their spirit to repeat, and that two months later they want to present themselves under a governability agreement, that all it does is abound in error. And that is all that, contrary to what we Socialists want, is prolonging exceptionality. To put it another way: the independenceists forced in October, knowing that they did, the application of 155. And now they seem committed to extending 155. What the Catalans want is to recover their institutions, to have a government with the capacity to manage the needs of the citizenry and a parliament to legislate for that, to meet the needs of these people, and not to have the institutions continue to be kidnapped for the personal interests of the independence leaders. That is why we reject what Bildu and the compromise amendment that they have signed with Podemos put forward today, and we reject the arguments on which it is based: First, to recognize a legality that never existed, because there is no law outside the law; to assume as anti-democratic elections that had full guarantees and with the greatest participation that have had elections in Catalonia. A political resolution on such a gross lie cannot be sustained. But it is that, on the resolutive side, it seems that this House wants to ask for some kind of reform of the Constitution by decree. He urged the Government, that of Madrid, and Mrs Cifuentes, to do the same, so that no one could come out with a rash because of the word Spain. It is as if we now urge the lehendakari here to delete an article even though it is included in the Statute. And that claim we're going to make from a legislature? Wouldn't it be better if, once and for all, the various nationalisms were committed to working on a real constitutional reform that would give us more guarantees of self-government? And, in the end, in order to complete the misconception, the judiciary is already told what it has to do. Not what this House would like, but what it should do. In passing, the Government, once again from Madrid, is again asked to intervene in these judicial decisions. That's from a legislative chamber. Finally, let us pass this debate, which is not going to be part of the milestones of Basque parliamentarianism and which will join the file as one more in which we do not talk about what interests Basque citizens, nor of course what will help Catalan citizens. And let us continue to work on what we have shown that we know how to do here and we continue to do it in Euskadi: to bet on the agreement, on the negotiation between different people to solve the problems, which is what the Socialist Group's amendment says.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u59	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representing the Basque Potulag, Mr. Sémper, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u60	Madam Counsellor, Mr Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps because already, at this point, the expectations that one has set some Thursdays – in this case, Friday – are scarce, but I am already satisfied – forgive me this personal reference – with this plenary session. I'm satisfied, because, hey, maybe I'm very happy – that's what I've noticed – but there are days when you can't expect much more. And we have also learned that there is never enough experience in politics, there is never enough smell in politics, because I thought you were going to withdraw this non-law proposal. When they were approaching the date, I thought they were going to withdraw it, because coming here to make a piece of paper, Mrs. Iriarte – forgive me for telling you this – after the vodevil we are having the opportunity to know what the independenceists are doing, the promoters of this misconception among other things in Catalonia, for I say, man, they will not have the gallady of going out to this rostrum and defending the indefensible again. But, well, today we're here, and let's go. Mrs Iriarte, in all her speech, which was most relevant to me, was the quote she made from Stephen Hawking, because the rest of her speech, Mrs Iriarte, has been plagued with inaccuracies when not false, and has come to say two things, which I believe deserve to be refuted in any case: First, that claiming independence has become a very dangerous thing. No, what has become dangerous, what is dangerous in a democratic and rule of law state, in which Spain is fortunately no exception, is failure to comply with the law. When someone violates, alters, when someone jumps the law or violates the constitutional order, in all democratic countries, there is no one who does not have an effective and strong response to anyone who does. Therefore, defending independence is not a problem. The problem is when someone uses illegal mechanisms to defend political positions. And it's just as good for an independentist as it is for someone who isn't. But this is First of Constitutional Law, not to say first of common sense. Secondly, you said that this is an unacceptable situation at European level. Well, there are things to be refuted. Just look at the comparative law, and we can see how all the countries that make up or are made up or are composite states also have mechanisms of reaction, when some of their members do not respect the constitutional order. The reference to article 37 of the Bonn Basic Law, the German Constitution – article 155 is a practically literal copy of this article of the Basic Law – is already known, but we can go to article 100 of the Austrian Constitution, article 126 of the Italian Constitution, article 238 of the Portuguese Constitution and article 4.4 of the United States, etc., etc., etc. In other words, most of the constitutional systems of the Western world have in their own articulated defence mechanisms, equal to those of article 155. This is not a constitutional anomaly. This happens! It must be remembered, because, hearing his intervention, it seems that this is an island in the world of comparative law. By the way, 155 mechanism that was already launched in 1989, specifically because there was an autonomous community... Year 1989, Mr. Pastor, in which, if I remember correctly, Felipe González and the Socialist Party ruled – I think I remember that with an absolute majority – because there were a number of tax violations by an autonomous community that forced the then-government to make a request, a request that was answered affirmatively and the situation was corrected and, therefore, it was not necessary to put in place the necessary mechanism, which is the one that contemplates the agreement through the Senate for its materialization. And how does the constitutional order narrow down, how does our jurisprudence narrow down, how does the High Court narrow down the application of Article 155? Well, we can go to judgment 215/2014 to see how the Constitutional Court, I insist, literally states, in relation to article 155: "It operates as a measure of the State's last resort in the face of a situation of manifest and wilful or negligent non-compliance of a given autonomous community (...), which has not taken the appropriate measures to correct the deviation in which it has incurred". Therefore, we have in comparative law, which come to confirm the suitability of equipping us with these kinds of tools. We also have, as has happened in the past, in the activation of this mechanism and there are autonomous communities, in this particular case one, which reacted affirmatively to the request of the Government of Spain, and we also have how the Constitutional Court perfectly narrows down the reasons why it is legitimate to act. Well, what happened here? And I'm sorry to repeat myself, but it seems necessary, because if you are sick, the others should not be less. The Constitutional Court has since 2014 been annulling, repeatedly and systematically, through numerous explicit, clear orders and judgments, which leave no room for doubt, the various steps that have been taken by the so-called sovereignist process, and requiring the Catalan institutions to act in accordance with the constitutional and statutory framework. For years – and there are also criticisms of some who believe that it could have been done before – there have been requirements that have been answered or disregarded or those requirements passed through the arch of triumph, if I may say so. What the Constitutional Court was trying to do is for the Catalan institutions to cease in their harassment, in the persistent and forceful denial of the constitutional and statutory system; to cease, in short, to alter, to break, national sovereignty. And how did they respond? How did they respond to a court request? I believe that any one of us here, we receive a request from a court, like any other citizen – excuse me to tell you the institutions or governments that are normal – and we respond with some concern and interest, trying to realize what a court requires; this seems basic in a state in which we intend to live, accepting and obeying the laws. How did they respond? Well, well, ignoring each and every one of the resolutions. And, in addition, bearing witness to that non-compliance. It is worth remembering the photo of Mr Puigdemont posing with five requests of the Constitutional Court, with five rulings of the Constitutional Court, hanging it on Twitter, as if this were the law of the jungle, because they were believed to be in the law of the jungle and believed to be able to do whatever they wanted. In order to echo the democratic history of this country and, in particular, the democratic history of Catalonia, he will pass this photo to the annals, of a president of an autonomous community posing and laughing openly at the requirements, the judgments, the resolutions of the High Court, in this case the Constitutional Court. And they thought nothing was going to happen! Well, they did respond by doing things; specifically, with a Law 19/2017 of 6 September, of infamous memory, the famous law of the referendum of self-determination, and with, two days later, the Law 20/2017 of 8 September, of Legal Transition, which blew up not only the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, but also ignored the criterion manifested, in a clear and robust way, by the senior lawyer of the Parliament Parliament And then it turns out that not only did they fail to fulfil the specific constitutional obligations, but it also affected the general interest of Spain, and it had to react and react in a calm, concrete and direct way, recovering the constitutional order and establishing for Catalonia what should never have been altered. And I'm going to tell you one thing to finish, Mrs. Iriarte. What Article 155 has meant – and I say it to you, truly, honestly; believe me, I say it honestly –... What Article 155 has meant for Catalonia is relief; relief, calm and calm. Catalan institutions continue to be fully in force, which happens to be unpresiding and undirected by the brainless who are constantly thinking about how to bypass the constitutional order and the law. Permanently. Permanently thinking. Because, for years, the only obsession has been the process And I will end by telling you one thing too, which I also think is very relevant, because we all remember that day, that famous Thursday. And Santi Vila, a gentleman who participated in this whole process, said very recently: "Without Twitter, we would have called elections." This is the political level and this is the level of policy of these gentlemen, these gentlemen and these ladies. This is the level. "Without Twitter, we would have called elections." On a Thursday, when there was an agreement and it was known that Mr Puigdemont was going to dissolve the Chamber, the Parliament of Catalonia, and he was going to call elections. A conviction that we not only had and an information that not only counted on the People's Party, but also gentlemen on this side of this House. And you probably knew that, too. But there was a treacherous movement – a movement on Twitter, indeed – that brought him back, thinking of his particular interest, in his personal interest and not the interest of that country that he claims to love and that he claims to defend. He's lying to everything...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u61	End up, Mr. Sémper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u62	It has been a real lie, a real hoax, which has ended up in a voodoo that we are seeing now: one that runs away, the other that stays, one that wants to make a video conference, the others that stick together, ERC, the CUP looking sideways and, meanwhile, less evil than 155 is being applied in Catalonia, because, if not, there would be no government or anyone who defended the interests of Catalans. And what will happen in the coming weeks, sooner rather than later, is that there will be a government at the end, a government that will comply with the law and a government that will allow 155 to be stopped in Catalonia. But the ultimate responsibility – and this is also political evidence more than obvious –... the ultimate responsibility for the fact that article 155 is still being applied in Catalonia is that of the Catalan political leaders, who are unable, for their personal interests, for their electoral and political calculations, to form a government that gives stability and that deals with the real problems of Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u63	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u64	Since he has spoken so much of contumacy, I would tell him to be tenacious, not contumate; that contumacy is to persist in error. –as you said I wanted to be too it's about the contum... Well, hearing all that I've heard, it's clear that the other proposal of Catalonia has put the matter on the table again, and about it, I think, there are three main columns, and we agree with three of them. In the time of writing, each has his style, but I believe that we are willing to vote in common, namely, that we approve, especially because he requires an appeal about 155, namely, that he should be deprived of it, because, being an article of the Constitution, it is clear that there are other majoritys needed to change the Constitution, but that there have been some of the principal actors who have been responsible for them, and to correct them, namely, to disarm, 155, the prisoner, because there is no essential matter in prison, why there should be a gateway, a third party in prison, and a third party in the elections which had been selected, but the institutions which have been selected, and which have been selected at the present day. This is an example. It's been four months and things have been mixed up and mixed up, so we'll have an analysis on it. But if we vote for him as an exigency, and of course our consolidation to the people of Catalonia, and the people of the people of the country, who are superfluous by della Rebbia, it is no less common to all. Above all, because we are engaged, why what is happening there goes with us, and affects us too. If we also love ourselves, if we wish to strengthen our own reasons, we must have an opinion of what is going on there, without doubt or doubt. Why? Puigdemontek kanpainan... because 155 actually applies at the hands of the Spanish government and calls for elections, but Puigdemont and also Junqueras, repeatedly throughout the campaign, asked a question: will you respect the results of the elections on 21 December? It was the question they were asking. And today it has been said here, categorically, that everyone has accepted the results of those elections. That's not true! That's not true, because, among other things, look... This is not so far in time: March 8th, the last car of instructor Llanera, referring to Jordi Sànchez, because he wants, of course, to prevent it from falling into the criminal repetition, when there is no confirmed crime on his person, do you know what he says in the reference to Jordi Sànchez?: "On an investigator who: 1.o) has revalidated his criminal commitment, integrating himself into a candidacy that proclaims precisely continuing to exercise the method of action that is being prosecuted". You've revalidated your criminal commitment! What is this? There were elections, there was an election board, the candidatures were proclaimed. Is anyone going to promote any illegalization? Or what are we talking about? That's what he said last week. And then he adds – as he does not have many springs in which to set his position and size is a consequence of all this – that he also "reflected Jordi Sànchez such an obsessive determination, that his criminal action never stopped at the risk that he could lead to a violent social explosion, with possible and irreparable physical consequences on the subjects concerned and with relevant impact on the coexistence of the social group". These are political considerations and, of course, he talks about this renewal of criminal commitment. I haven't seen it reflected in the media, but it's in the March 8 car. Let's move on. If we do an analysis – I'm going to do it briefly and I'm not in favour of conspiracy theories – it's obvious that there's a state strategy here. Hemen Statu-strategy bat dago, Alderdi Popularraren sheathik. Gobernua part bat da, bath Status-strategy bat dago. 155th jartzen denean esaten du Statuak: "Jaun-Andreok, hemen daude Mugak. Hemendik aurrera, ezin da passa." Out of the abyss, in the face of shame, in the eyes of the beleaguered. So, if there are limits here, what do we know? We'll see again, the reopening of the state structure... But the borders are here. And that's what the state does. It applies a process of dislocation to Catalan and its institutions, and imposes boundaries on them. But there's a second instrument, and it's a sad process, and the state puts it inside that state strategy, and today it's what some of the Potian Party say is almost out of control. Well, we know you don't control it, but, well, there's only one person who put them on. But what is the end of this second branch or part of the political process, if it is a penal process? Now, at the present day, men of superfluousism and independenceism, people, leaders, or not such leaders, are inflammation for politics. All of them. And some of them go to jail and go to jail. But to be involved in a whole generation... And if it is to be reviewed to the structure of the state, see, because some of them have deduced it as a conclusion that it was too much delivered from autonomies, and what happened in the end? Yes, you give them television, even language, rights in the field, and then what happens is: they form a doctrine, and they form independent ones. That's why we need to take a walk. All this must come to an end! .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Eta horretarako ebiltzen da beste adarra; hau da, courten nolabaiteko adarra. Horregatik, Statues come out – nuke eskimo – hirugarrengo oinarri bat, bath beharrak come out. From the state of necessity, from how to act, no longer on the democratic principle, on the principle of legality – no, no – has emerged another principle, which is that of that necessity, that need that the state has to cover politically this gap that has been opened to it in Catalonia and has to close it anyway, with 155 and with all the dynamics of of course judicial. Criminal justice online, obviously. And it does not matter to the State to sacrifice at the highest altar of State reasons the principle of separation of powers, even the democratic system itself, which does not matter to it. It's okay! In view of the decisions of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights, all those that arrive in cascade and that are going to continue to amend the plan to the Spanish Government, neither does it affect this, nor does it matter. Then, if they have sacrificed themselves at that altar, at that higher altar of the reasons of State, principles such as the separation of powers... Because, of course, you'll tell me, Sáez de Santamaría, the vice president: "We're going to deface the leaders," literally, "we're going to annihilate independence"; that's what the executive says. And then, the instructor says this renews the criminal commitment. Let's see, in this panorama, what's the way out? Hori da gerratazzen dena, horregatik, how do you build all that? Of course, with will and determination, and there is always a need for a report. You always need a report! And there he has come to see the EnfoCATs report, and of course, the Civil Guard. Without the Civil Guard, this isn't built. And that's a state strategy. And it's not a conspiracy; I don't suffer from paranoia. We know what's going on, and that's a warning to navigators, Catalans and Basques, for starters. And then the dissections of good Basques, bad Basques, good Catalans and bad ones will be made, depending on the time and the leaders. But here, what is happening is that, through this instruction, which is not going to last another 18 months as they say, or 2 years – no, it is not going to last – to what is the scenario of disobedience cited by Mr Semper or alleged disobedience to the constitutional requirements, you necessarily have to associate, in order to go to rebellion, the violence factor. And in EnfoCATs, that famous report that can be read from above, when you're talking about a progressive social mobilization that responds to the state's reaction, you're not talking about violence; you're talking about democratic mobilization. Well, there you have it: the concomitance with violence, they find it there. I'm sorry, I was just finishing up. Tell him the strategy, say Sitacion, that's why we say yes to this. We say that because 155 is to be abolished, because the prisoner is in the street, because Catalonia has a right to choose her institutions, and because no one can condition her right, because the majority must constitute it, and this revengeful State, who seeks revenge, must be told to take their hands out of Catalonia, and to let the Catalans determine their future free and democraticly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u65	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the day of the answers, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Irart, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u66	Well, good morning again. And I'm glad to hear about it. It's a pleasure to see what's going on tonight. There is no doubt but we might perhaps prefer to have another way of agreeing, in a more firm manner, to accuse this state of fencing established by the Spanish State; but I think we have shown that an arrangement is possible, if the will be possible, and that it is possible to obtain a great consent for our people. Mr Martínez, you've said six times, if it takes six times or a hundred times, because not six times, but a hundred times, it's a thousand times, that the citizens of Catalonia are suffering from this violent state of the state and this violent state against democracy. And Mr. Pastor, you were talking about serival, but I'd say the same: the seria is not left, and the serila remains, and the seritala is on the side of the Spanish State, I have no doubt. Penaz is sad enough to call, beat ere, Partido Popularraren eta Partido Sozialistaren hitz batzuk. Adibidez, Cemper jaunak "unbelieved" aipatzen zuenean. Edozein kasutan, Esperantza gutxi daukat, Semper jauna, some day perhaps you too see – I don't know if it was Paul's way from Damascus – the light, and come forward, I don't tell you to agree with it, to take into consideration works such as those of Herrero de Miñon or the ideas of David Cameron. Baina –egia esan – Partido Popularrarekin, entzun ditugunak entzunda, esperanta gutxi! You told me that independence can be defended, but what independence can be defended? A little folkloric, independence of intimacy, formal, yes, because all the others are very dangerous to be defended. And Mr. Pastor, you've told me that you've been critical about 155, because you've had a better chance of getting away from the left of the PSE-Euskadian Party, to avoid the measures which the Socialist Party of Spain has taken, and to take care of the problems we have in our political affairs of this kind. But both of you disguise all your speeches in respect of the law, in common life, and the spirit of 155 is a very fat thing, and it is very serious. The Union is more important than anything else, but don't forget that, in the time of Philip II, the Spanish Empire did not place the sun; but in the reign of Philip VI, there is less than an hour to be made from Antequera to Finister, and therefore the empire has lost much in its way. And you too have lost much from your voters and from your followers, and you may be in danger, while you are working for the right hand, that you may be alone, and that you may build something else in this country. I said a few weeks ago that the democracy itself is in question, and I repeat that democracy itself is in question. Against democracy or democracy: that's the key. And, fortunately, this parliament will be for democracy today, as the Basque Country will always be, because the citizens, the Basques, are in the first line, and we will not despair of obtaining the word and the decision for them. The people rule, and the governments obey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u68	Yes, it is true; I have said it is the sixth time; but I think it has been proved to-day, that when I heard the discourses which all the people have made, I have said before, at the beginning of my discourse: It is the only thing that has changed its hardship about discussion that all political parties continue to think the same. I understand that every one must carry his political position forward, but I think that, if he has not changed his post for the sixth time, it is enough. But even if, as I have said, we must discuss, we shall never have any difficulty in making this discussion. Mr Semper, you have given us a kind of comparative law and constitutional law a bit curious, a series of references. He has forgotten a reference that I think would have been interesting to introduce in the equation that you have made of different elements, which is precisely the Supreme Court of Canada's judgment of August 20, 98, in which he asks, in response to three questions that the House asked him, that, in fact, Quebec could not exercise secession unilaterally, but that, if the Quebecers showed their willingness to separate, the Government should negotiate. And not only that, but also because of constitutional duty, I should negotiate in good faith, which I believe is precisely one of the keys that arise here when we raise the need for dialogue, the need for a solution to a conflict on the political tracks. Because you have also given us a speech that is mainly based on legal considerations, which is what it is about – and I think that is what you have been doing for many years – is to turn your back on the existence of a political, non-legal conflict, which may, in some cases – and I believe that, with the transaction that we are going to vote for today, it is clear that we have a high degree of disagreement with a series of judicializations that take place around politics, and therefore we disagree with it – that there are also legal consequences in your political actions; but in this case, what you do is to ignore the political dimension that has this conflict, to ignore the existence of a Catalan society that is indeed plural, but that also to a high degree there is a large part of Catalan society that wants to decide how it wants to fit in with the State or not, how it wants to articulate its relationship with the State, and what it does is to bring us to a legal debate, which completely ignores any possibility of dialogue. Because for you there is no conflict, for you there is no debate, for you there is no conversation about this, as for the Spanish Government, which is precisely what it has shown in recent years: to propose turning your back on the existence of a political conflict so that you can absolutely ignore the possibility of any dialogue, of any negotiation, and not only that, but of any dialogue based on good faith and on the capacity that two governments, both Spanish and Catalan, should have to relate, dialogue and resolve a conflict that is clearly political. On the other hand, Mr Egibar, who was talking about that State which sacrifices at the main altar the separation of powers or democracy itself, said in conclusion. Well, I can agree, indeed, that the separation of powers, at this time, is seriously damaged in the Spanish state. But in one state there are governments, those who lead the states are governments, and at the moment, you and your party are one of the great supporters of the Spanish government. Are you going to remain the livelihood of this government? Are you going to continue to support and agree on the budgets that make this government remain in power and allow it, not only with the connivance of the Socialist Party, to continue to implement these kinds of measures, to continue to keep articles like 155 in force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u69	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u70	Well, some pointing. Because it is true that it is all said, no, but I think it would be good for you to remember, and also the Catalans, that in these elections, in the last elections, the independence parties, those defending the unilateral path, have obtained 48.5 % of the citizens' votes. And hardly, neither Catalonia nor any other community can embark on an adventure of this kind having against more than half the population. I think that at least that consideration should fly over the heads of the leaders, which gives the impression that they are doing everything possible to go against what a good part of their people also wants, whether they have voted for them or not. Well, I don't know whether or not I understand the signature of Podemos in this text, not, because, so far, the reflection that Podemos and his counterparts have made in Catalonia was somewhat more equal, no; indeed, certain measures of the central government were criticized, but also criticized the unilateral option that the independence parties had put in place and that, at the end and at the end, provoked the application of 155, knowingly by the one who did that that would arrive, if towards what they did and had in their hand not to have done so. Because, in the end, it is not exactly a model government: neither the last of Mr Puigdemont nor the previous of Mr Mas were characterized precisely because they were left-wing, nor because they had social sensibility, nor because of anything that seemed to them; on the contrary, it was the advanced, the adalides, of all the social cuts, rather than anyone, with more depth, in Catalonia. So, finally, if you're trying to mix being independent with being progressive in this country, I think it's a little embarrassing on the part of whoever wants to do it, no. And to recognize reality, to be objective, you have to have a broad look, and know how to see the failures that one has and those that have another as well. There have been political blockades on the part of the Government of Spain – we recognize this – and there has been suicidal leadership on the part of certain independence leaders. And they have to remember – and they had to have agreed – that Europe and Spain, with all their flaws, are a shared political space that has a fundamental principle, that is, respect for legality and that that was going to be on the table, beyond the sympathies or antipathy that they could have; therefore, there has been no government in all of Europe, nor will there be, that recognizes any of the movements that the independence parties have set in motion. Because they are radically opposed to the spirit with which the European Union was formed, which you also place as a paradigm of democracy. Well, that European Union, neither together nor separately, will ever recognize you unilateral adventures like those that have taken place in Catalonia, no. And, in any case, it will have to be recognized that some doubt will raise what is being said by some, at least, because, even within the framework of independence, there seems to be serious doubts about whether the path that has been taken and, above all, the one that seems to want to continue to be led by some, is worth it or not. And a party as important in Catalonia as the Republican Left of Catalonia, is more than convinced – you will know better than I do today – that what Puigdemont is doing leads you to suicide and that you have to do something different. And so far, they do not dare to say it, but they will end up saying it clearly and they have come to ask a different candidate, who is neither subject to exile, nor to escape from Justice, nor to imprisonment, and there are them. Why don't you want to do it? Because they live comfortably in the 155's obsession, because they self-satisfied – with permanent victimism – as they have always done, on the other hand; but, now, carrying, as a burden of proof, the entire Catalan society behind.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u71	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Sémper, representing the Basque Potula, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, you have not lost much in the first intervention; do not be distressed. And if you've heard it, I'm sorry for you, because you could have saved it. The truth is that we have repeated a lot of debate, but it is true that we have attended a kind of interpretation of judicial orders at the hands of Mr Egibar. In other words, we have come to this House, Mr Egibar, to hear your interpretation of a court order, which you have read us in great detail. It is not new that this Parliament is not new – it is true; it is not lacking in gravity or surprise – but it does not cease to be new that this Parliament begins to analyse the functions of judges, judicial decisions, always depending on whether one likes them or not. I mean, there's no acceptance here. I say this because you, many of you, are making continuous appeals to the separation of powers, what happens is that it is a lie, because then, at the time of truth, that remains in mere rhetoric. Here are the judgments or judicial orders on court decisions assessed on the basis of whether or not it is going well in my parish, whether it is going well in what I believe or do not believe, and this cannot be so. Because, when Mr. Egibar referred and profusely analyzed the last judicial order, he said rhetorically: "But what is this?", shocked at some of Judge Llanera's demonstrations. Then you have come to recognize that, in fact, it is a process that is taking place and is not subject to any kind of political manipulation, unless you mean that the members of the Supreme Court are also decided by the political parties in a truly remarkable political innovation on their part. That's what we say. But what is this? What are we doing here? What exercise are we doing of political-partisan analysis of judicial decisions and decisions? But now we shall be talking about the amendment of the non-law proposal, the compromise amendment, which you are going to adopt and which you are going to force the lehendakari to adopt. But before you enter into that non-law proposal that you are going to pass, let me recommend one thing: Mr. Egibar, don't read it, this is much simpler; don't read it and you don't complicate your life, making complicated interpretations and analysis. This is whether or not we comply with the law, whether we accept the legal system or not, the rules we have developed to live with. And there are those who do not respect them, who decide to skip them in a flagrant way and to the bullfighter, in a blunt way, as the High Court recalled, and others who believe that, listen, with their imperfections, we have to comply with the law, which affects us and obliges us all. And that it is also good that the public authorities and, in this case, the courts, the judiciary, act independently, being implacable with those who skip the law, demanding especially from the public authorities, especially the institutions, especially those who are dedicated to politics, that we comply with the law, whether we like it or not, we want to change it or not. But let's do it. Because, if not, the alternative to its non-fulfilment is what we are seeing happening in Catalonia, the sole and exclusive responsibility of the independence leaders in Catalonia, who, even today, after all that has happened, continue with this vodevil and continue to give a regrettable image of their priorities and their political vocation, more concerned in their partisan interests than in equipping Catalonia with a government to solve the problems that its citizens have. Although I honestly think they care very little. What you are going to pass today..., that you must see what gives you a non-legislative proposition in this House, right, because in this House non-legislative propositions alter and modify the Constitution. In Article 1, you say that Article 155 is repealed. I don't court the debates; that's not my obsession. I believe that my first intervention, Mr Martínez, was fundamentally political, but today we are calling on this House to debate whether or not an article of the Constitution should be applied; therefore, reference should be made to an article of the Constitution and whether it should be complied with or not. Listen, the blame, in any case, will be on these gentlemen, not us, who have come to answer to what they have asked us, so far – I know that the People's Party is guilty of many things, but not in this, please. You, in addition to amending the Constitution... Listen, may these gentlemen pose it or those, for it enters into the foreseeable, but you? Are you really going to be dragged into this? Are you going to approve this? In point two, they also stand as judges, because they say: "Request the release of members of the Government, Ómniun and ANC incarcerated". And Mr. Egibar says, "You don't have to be there." I mean, they're not just politicians, they're not just parliamentarians – which must still be a little bit of a thing for them – but they also stand as judges. And Mr Egibar says, "You don't have to be there"; er, you have to go out on the street; er, we vote in favour. And this is respect for the separation of powers. But, thirdly, they also stand as a parliament that is able to appoint presidents of other autonomous communities, when they say in a surprising way: we urge the Government of Spain not to put obstacles – I do not know what obstacles the Government of Spain has put, rather than demand and ask, and it is an already almost clamorous request, that once and for all government is formed in Catalonia – and that they allow the members imprisoned again or who are abroad – that is, those who fled; before the one who fled was a coward, now seems to be a brave one – to be able to be invested definitively already president This is a demeanor, really. And out of respect for this House we have come to these debates, trying to make some argument and trying to discuss with you, but it is a misconception of what we are debating here today. It's a misconception! Look... Judgments, orders, court decisions, must be enforced in all circumstances, whether they like it or not. That is to accept the democratic rule of law and the separation of powers. The rest, pantomimes and wires. The rest, pantomimes and steaks! I'm done, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u73	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u74	Fortunately, and despite the irresponsibility of the independence leaders in Catalonia, public services in Catalonia work. Fortunately... Fortunately, the flight of businesses has stopped, which may not matter to you – I know you don't care, because everything that is impoverishment is better for you. But, listen, after the flight of more than 2,000 companies and companies in Catalonia, fortunately it has stopped. And fortunately...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u75	Quiet, please. Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u76	And now I'm done, Madam President. Fortunately, Catalonia is no longer news of the torturing and fraudulent use of its institutions, of the institutions of all Catalans – not only on one side – by the independenceists. It is true that it is still news for the unfortunate spectacle that the parties and the independenceist politicians are giving, but that too will end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u77	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. In conclusion, Eucabertarians, Mr. Egibar, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u78	That I do not suggest any comment on the part of the car that I have read to you, draws my attention and worries me, when we are talking about elections held and we are talking about a car that tells candidate Sànchez that he has reiterated his criminal commitment to participate in the Junts per Catalunya list. He says so. Read it. Read it. I've read everything, also the concomitance with violence. I've read everything... But, of course, Puigdemont, for that purpose, or Jordi Sánchez or Turull or the person who, in the end, I don't know, may be the candidate admitted to the Parliament. Look, I'm going to read you two more because, of course, you've mentioned a lot in the media that Yoldi, Juan Carlos Yoldi, participated in the investiture debate in this House in the year 87. Then, in the year 88, an article that bears the name of article Yoldi came out. There is a modification, which will now apply, at the same time, in Catalonia. But here also people who have come directly from prison, to an investiture debate also, with the Lehendakari Ardanza, have participated. Well, the lehendakari was the one who was elected lehendakari, Ardanza, who was the only candidate, but Elosua, Elosua, Joxemari, participated in that debate. And in Navarre also Guillermo Arbeloa and Adolfo Araiz himself participated, but in Catalonia he refuses. Why? Look what the car itself also comes to say, because it is a political consideration, a political deliberation, which the judge incorporated in last week's car. With regard to the restriction of representation capacity – speaking of Jordi Sánchez – who is imposed here, he says: "It affects a candidate in whom, at the beginning of the electoral process, already competed with the deprivation of liberty that conditions his representation today". (b) said: "This is a candidate who, in addition to being deprived of liberty at the time of the elections, did not offer his constituents the leadership they now demand." Take pearl! Third: "The candidacy presents other members, all of them with the same number of support in the voters, in which they do not appreciate the collective risks they try to conjure themselves up". That is, there are people with the same votes and why they don't present others, that is, you have to meet the candidate who likes, likes the judge or passes the blindfold. But it is there that, when referring to the Yoldi theme, which refers to it, it says: "By invoking the precedent of Juan Carlos Yoldi, the writing of the defendant avoids exposing the significant elements that – from the constitutional premises exposed – condition the meaning of the decision". He says: "Despite the similarity of the cases, the crimes charged to Juan Carlos Yoldi and those for whom he was in pre-trial detention, were those belonging to an armed gang and weapons warehouse. It was, therefore – as the Ministry of Public Prosecutions has already stated on the occasion of other permits that Mr.Sànchez has previously been interested in – crimes whose commission is not favoured in the parliamentary debate for which the permit was granted." Yoldi here could have done a perfectly good advocacy of terrorism; he didn't, but he does put that into consideration. "Moreover," he says, "these are criminal behaviours that would not enhance their risk of repetition in the event that the permit would lead to a majority parliamentary support of their candidacy." That is, Yoldi was accepted, according to his consideration, to come to this House because he was not going to be elected; now, as Jordi Sànchez can go to the House and can have absolute majority, because I do not leave him; that is the conclusion. This is Justice a la carte. That is the reality, and the only thing we ask in the transaction is, first, to deactivate, repeal, 155 and all that means, which I repeat: there is a political reading of the mojon, the closure, the limits that the State has set, not only for Catalonia, but for the rest of autonomous communities or historical nationalities. Second. Release, release people, and elect most of them even though some have resigned their positions. They must be free; they cannot stay in prison any longer. Some have already remained in prison longer than people with firm condemnation of the LAG – and I don't quote – who had 10-year sentences and partial pardons could have been three months, and those have been for longer, and I'm not making comparisons. And third, a logical, orderly, normalized investiture, which is what Catalonia needs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u79	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos has signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of 57; the contrary, 18; the whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u80	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together regarding the events of the Gastines in 1976. Discipline and final resolution. It's yours, Mr. Podemos, Hernandez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u81	Thank you. Well, we now bring an initiative from our coalition, a non-law proposal, which seeks to bring a grain of sand to the cause of truth and memory, and we also hope that the justice and reparation of the victims of the dictatorship in general and, in particular, of the victims of the terrorist acts perpetrated by the Francoist State on 3 March 1976, precisely in the city where this Parliament is located. The so-called Events of March 3 modus operandi A city whose workers were defending, all of them, rights and conditions more worthy of their lives, doing so, moreover, through the exercise of rights that must be considered fundamental, but which were not, however, under that regime, such as the right to strike, the right to protest, assembly, free political opinion, etc. As with so many other victims of the dictatorship, and as with hundreds of cases of Francoist repression, decades after the massacre, the principles of truth, memory, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition remain unfulfilled. It is not possible to build memory, if we do not know the truth, in its entirety, of what has happened, and there will be no justice until we can build that memory on the basis of the truth. And without justice there will also be no full reparation for the victims; in this case, of the murders and repressed on 3 March. The guarantees of non-repetition are based precisely on these necessary legs: truth, memory, justice and reparation, which today do not exist for the facts and victims of 3 March in Gasteiz. Our initiative seeks to remove some barriers so that we can know all the existing documentation, which can offer light on the facts of the virulent repression of that day, avoiding that, under the argument or excuse of the secrets of State or classified material, we cannot know relevant documentation that can exist to clarify the facts and determine the responsibilities of that injustice. This initiative proposes that we urge the Central Government to declassify all documentation, information, data, matters, etc., existing in the State Administration, which relates to the events of 3 March 1976 in Gasteiz and which are, at present, classified as secret or reserved under the Official Secrets Act. This is a simple and, in our view, timely complaint, which is shared by the vast majority of this House. The Basque Nationalist parliamentary groups, Basque Socialists and the EH Bildu group have already moved us along for a while and would support it. In addition, it is accompanied by an amendment of addition proposed by the group of EH Bildu, which we share and support also from Equo, from Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita and from Podemos, and which will also be supported, as we have been transferred, by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi. An addition to our initiative, which highlights the work, effort and dedication of the memorialist associations to achieve justice for the victims of that barbarism, and which supports the initiatives that have been taken by organised civil society to secure the recognition and reparation that the victims of 3 March deserve. The path of justice is a necessary one and will end irremistibly in the European Court of Human Rights, since our courts are not responding as they should to the crimes committed by the Franco dictatorship. A path, that of justice, to this particular issue of 3 March, which today will have the majority support of this Parliament as well. Not a few, rather, are the difficulties faced by those who work to clarify responsibilities and facts such as those of 3 March, of those who work to build our collective memory. In the opinion of our group, it is the State that should carry out this work without prejudice to the work of family members and memorial associations, such as that of 3 March. But the reality is that the State has never fulfilled its obligations in this regard: it has neither assumed its responsibilities nor fulfilled its obligations. This is clear from the report drawn up, at the request of this House, by the Valentín de Foronda Institute of our public university, where, moreover, we can see the enormous difficulties encountered in carrying out certain investigations. With this initiative, what we intend to do is, at least, remove a stop from the many who are doing what the State has given up doing, which it should have done a long time ago and which one day will have to do: declassifying all the documentation that might exist related to 3 March in Gasteiz can help to investigate in greater depth the facts to which we refer, clearly establishing the political and criminal responsibilities that may arise. The Official Secrets Act confers exclusively on the Council of Ministers and the Board of Chiefs of Staff the power to classify, with the category of secret or reserved, documents and information the knowledge of which by unauthorized persons may damage or endanger the security and defence of the State. The cancellation of such qualifications is, under the same law, the responsibility of the body making the respective classified information declaration. The Government, therefore, by agreement of the Council of Ministers, can perfectly at this time declassify all that information relating to the events of Gasteiz, which has been classified by any of the existing Councils of Ministers since then. And that is simply what is proposed with this initiative. There's no reason, we understand, not to. To oppose an initiative like this could only respond, in our opinion, to the interest of keeping hidden possible information and documentation related to these facts, in order to prevent certain responsibilities from being clarified or demonstrated. 42 years after those events, we believe that no one will be able to argue that declassifying documentation related to them could damage or endanger the security and defence of the State, which are the only assumptions contained in the law in order to keep the information classified. We would ask anyone who does not agree with this initiative how it could be considered to endanger the security of the State to know about democratic struggles and repression against them exercised by the dictatorship four decades ago. The only thing that can jeopardize this is the impunity that has enslaved its wide in our country after that grotesque regime. Impunity with all that has happened during the four decades of dictatorship, and impunity with what has happened in the last years of dictatorship. During the last years of the Franco dictatorship, the social response to it by the working class and the popular classes was a constant. It was hundreds of thousands of women and men who, in those years, stood up to the regime of terror, claiming the most basic democratic rights, labor rights, social rights, etc. The anti-Franco struggle had spread to broad sections of the population and the workers' conflicts were one of the main spearheads of that democratic struggle against an illegitimate regime, imposed by the force of arms and treason, through barbaric methods, violators of the most elementary human rights and democratic principles. While the country's elites, who had supported the dictatorial regime for decades, were already carefully preparing "the change of jacket" to become the new democrats of all life, in the neighborhoods and factories throughout the country, the humblest, who had suffered the socio-economic consequences of the regime in their own flesh, overcome the fear of repression to go out to defend their rights and ultimately to end the dictatorship. It is in this context that the city of Gasteiz lived in that year of 1976, with numerous labor conflicts in many companies. Some of the demands of those struggles were the linear rise of 5,000 pesetas, the working day of 40 hours or 100% wage in case of accident or illness. I cannot go on without reflecting that it is curious and indignant that, four decades later, some of those demands have to continue to be fought today, 40 years later, including among those demands also that of equality between women and men, because, as evidenced in the demands expressed in Gasteiz that year, the workers claimed against the injustice of men charging 2,000 pesetas more than they for the same jobs. All these joint struggles resulted in the day of general strike convened in Gasteiz in March 1976, under a regime where the fundamental right to strike did not exist and was severely pursued. On 3 March of that year, a total unemployment had been called in the city, an unemployment that was massively secondary, getting the workers to stop most companies, including those that did not have open conflicts at the time, but that stopped as our solidarity. A support that was also practiced by students, by commerce, housewives, etc. But the regime was unwilling to tolerate such a degree of subversion. He was unwilling to allow the popular classes to paralyze an entire city, claiming democratic and social rights. The police acted harshly from the morning, using real fire in the face of any attempt to protest or protest. The Armed Police collected their first victims from the morning, wounding several people with bullets. But it was in the afternoon when the most terrible events broke out, when police surrounded the church of San Francisco de Assisi in Zaramaga neighborhood. There was the general briefing of the strike call, as you know quite well. I will not detail for this reason the facts that you already know and that happened when the police began the repressive eviction operation of that assembly, which ended with five murdered and hundreds of wounded, many of gravity. There is still no justice for those acts today, and criminal responsibilities have not been eliminated. It has been 18 years since this Parliament, on the initiative of the United Left, denounced that those facts had been left unpunished and unclarified. Unpunished and unclarified continue today, unfortunately. More than 10 years ago, the Valentin Institute of Foronda explained in its report the irresponsible and criminal use of weapons of war against the workers, under the orders of some instance of the chain of command, the last of which was the Government. We have long known that there are clear criminal responsibilities for the murders of Pedro María Martínez Ocio, Francisco Aznar Clemente, Romualdo Barroso Chaparro, José Castillo and Welcome Pereda. But these have not had the proper reflection in the courts. This Parliament has long held the government of Arias Navarro politically responsible. They are political leaders who were then Minister of the Government, Don Manuel Fraga Iribarne, then Minister of Trade Union Relations, Rodolfo Martín Villa, and then Minister of the Presidency, Alfonso Osorio. And in my opinion, also the then minister of the Government in office and secretary of the National Movement, Mr Adolfo Suárez. But one thing is political and other criminal responsibilities. We do not know at what point the greatest responsibility lies with the chain of command. But we do know that impunity continues today and that what has been done so far by the institutions is not enough, not even by far. Today we intend to bring with this initiative another small step that can help to achieve the inescapable goals of truth, memory, justice and reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. If we attend to the unfortunately famous police recording of that March 3rd, we believe, from our coalition, that we must all do what is in our hands to guarantee these principles about facts that were considered by that armed police officer to be "the greatest beating of history." The aim of this non-legislative proposal is to make this modest contribution, namely to pressure the central Government to declassify any documentation or information that may help in the cause of truth, memory, justice and reparation, with regard to the terrorist action of the Francoist apparatus on 3 March 1976. I have to thank the position of most of the groups in this House and, above all, I have to thank – and I think we have to thank – the work outside these walls do many associations and collectives of historical memory, because one day there will have to be truth, memory, justice and reparation, for real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u83	Yes, thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mr Hernández, for bringing back such an initiative, which we have discussed many times in this Parliament, which we have spoken about many times. — this has a different hue in relation to the request, but, well, the substance is the one he has put forward — and by reminding us, once again — a question that we have already done on many occasions in this Parliament, through parliamentary initiatives, but also through appearances, reports received, even from a special committee that worked a few years ago — because the events of 3 March and its unfortunate consequences. And, once again, it allows us to express our condemnation of the unfortunate events of that time, the appreciation of disproportionate and brutal police action, and our memory, of course, as we always do, to the victims, in political keys that then had the fate that they had and that also had the consequences that they had. Well, Mr Hernández, lately, he usually presents us with some initiatives that go beyond the possibilities of this Parliament, and more through non-legislative proposals. Indeed, it speaks of decisions that have to be made or that have to be made by others, in this case governments, complicated decisions, probably sometimes difficult to understand or to take, but political decisions of public authorities, in application of existing and democratic laws, which are established in legality and the legal order and are exercised by those who have to do so: now, at this moment, that governs the People's Party, at other times that ruled the Socialist Party. In this sense, they are taken on the basis of decisions and legal criteria that have not been reformed, and that is the fundamental element and where we emphasized, the possibility that this issue of declassification of these documents to which you refer, but of many more, may be part of a debate to reform the Official Secrets Act or a new law of official documents and the formulas of their declassification. That is the framework of the reform, the Congress of Deputies, and even in the Congress of Deputies I understand that, assuring the majority that you have here, you will also secure it in the Congress of Deputies and that it will be much easier to urge the Government, in the Congress of Deputies itself, to this which you want us to do here, and I suppose that some of your colleagues will already be doing so, will do so and even get it more closely, I do not tell you with the effectiveness of asking someone, in the use of their powers, to interpret the law in the way that you want the parliamentary majority, but in any case, you can do so in the Congress of Deputies, on a declarative basis, as it is a motion, a non-law proposal, or on a legal basis, such as the reform of the Official Secrets Act or a law that we already know is in progress, which is in process and, well, we hope that it will bear fruit; so that, we understand that there must be a debate of these characteristics which we do not. Because, I can want what you ask for, I can wish for it and I can be interested, as a citizen, as a person, even as a parliamentarian and as interested in this matter, but my capacity has been exceeded, no. And we have seen other precedents in relation to requests for declassification, which clash or clash with the application of the law or with who has to apply it, and the interpretation it makes of it in relation to the security of the State, in relation to documents on which the secrecy of the documents is based, which also escape me, that I do not have the keys of course to overcome it. As I said before, it will be good for us to declassify these types of documents and certainly many others, but within the framework of the law and, in my view and in my group's view, within the framework of respect for the decisions of Governments, of the latter and of the former, which could have raised similar issues in relation to certain documents. And in that respect to the decisions of the governments, and here, moreover, not being within the declaratory issue of what is a non-law proposition, it is not the first to ask these questions and, well, give of itself what they give of themselves. I understand that in the Congress of Deputies you will have a greater playing field certainly – you or your group, no – and, moreover, in the request of these issues, of declassification of documents, for well, in the regulated and formal ways, because they can also be appealed or can be demanded before the courts; this is not the first time that this happens in the face of the denial of declassifications of documents in certain areas. There had been contentious-administrative remedies; those concerned had been able to go to courts in terms of reference and public action, and the courts had even given reason. It should be remembered that it has already happened with the roles of the Cesid in the investigation of the LAGs, that the courts gave reason to those who demanded this declassification; that is, that, in this sense, because the procedures also exist, no. Justice, for there is the way... You also complete your initiative with a compromise amendment or addition amendment, which talks about Justice and the procedures that can follow; well, everyone is free to go to Justice, to seek the satisfaction of their claims in Justice. The Spanish justice system, the international justice system, the human rights courts... there are the measures, and of course, the decisions of the courts will have to be complied with after these procedures. Returning to the previous: would I like to see documents of these characteristics declassified? I'm sure it is, but I don't have to make any decisions in that regard, no. I am not the interpreter of that law, nor the one who has to make the decision, because it is not part of my responsibilities, nor do I have all the keys, moreover, regarding why they are not declassified or why they are declassified. And I understand that someone will have to take them, someone has to take them, in this case the Government, and I will respect and I have to do it here, and I have to defend the criteria and actions of the Government in this series of issues. I don't want to... You say that you do not vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal is that you want it to be hidden. No, no, I don't want anything hidden... Whoever does not want to, who does not vote in favour, no; I want to respect the decisions of governments (the previous ones, the current ones...), as I want to respect the decisions of the courts on this or any other issue. That is, in that sense, I do not want to hide anything; I too would like many things that I feel dissatisfied with, but, in any case, what I want to do here and what I do here, as a representative of the People's Group, is to understand that it is the decisions of the Government in application of existing laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Troubleon, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u85	Yes, thank you, Your Honor. At 17:10 on 3 March 1976, armed police officers of Miranda de Ebro and Vitoria's reserve company entered the San Francisco church in Zaramaga neighborhood, using tear gas, to evict the 4,000 strikers gathered there. When those workers began to leave, and a few metres from the door, armed police were waiting for them, pointing at them with rubber balls and, at one point, firing firearms. In the same place, three of those workers died: Pedro Martínez, Francisco Aznar and Romualdo Barroso; seriously wounded would die shortly afterwards, José Castillo and Bienvenido Pereda. It was the greatest massacre of the transition and was never clarified, because neither investigation nor trial was conducted. Egia, justice age error. Eta hirurak a lotuta daude. Egia ezinbastekoa yes. Because we know that it was the civil governor, Rafael Landín, who ordered the eviction with tear gas, skipping the compulsory ecclesial authorization by the current concordat; when Mr Semper said that the law had to be obeyed, because it was not obeyed. We know what the Captain of Armed Police Jesús Quintana said to justify that massacre; he said: "All anti-disturbing methods were used until they were exhausted and, after their lack, the use of firearms was accurate." And we know you lied. We know that he also lied when he talked about the use of firearms by workers. We also know what was said by radio; we know it by radio amateur recordings; they said, "We have contributed to the greatest beating in history; this has been a massacre." True, Egia, it is also to hear in those recordings the exchange between different police officers: "How is the matter now out there? Change. You can figure out, after throwing like a thousand shots, breaking the whole church of San Francisco, you'll tell me how the street is. Change." And the answer is: "Thank you very much, good service. Change"... The truth we know, the evidence, the sound recordings, the testimonies have never, ever, come from official sources, and that is the question today, because the right to the truth is intimately linked with access to information, because knowledge is a guarantee of transparency, and the Rajoy Transparency Act 2013 restricts, precisely, these accesses, because it is subject to the Law of 68 on official secrets, which is the one that prevails. From '68, Mr. Barrio, Democrat, from '68? If it's the 78th reform. Democrat, the one in '68? Curious words! This law prevents the disclosure of documents whose content endangers the security and defence of the State. Well, that's the question: Do the State's archives of the 3 March massacre endanger the security or integrity of the State? No, the answer is no. The interests of those who invoke this law in order not to open the archives do not seek to preserve the State, but to authorities and officials; they seek to preserve persons related to the cause who may have criminal responsibility, and they are responsible for Martín Villa, then Minister of Trade Union Relations, and Fraga Iribarne, then Minister of Government, founder of the Popular Alliance, later People's Party. And other names here too, from Vitoria-Gasteiz, fellow runners of those responsible for that massacre, those who were accomplices and participants in the Franco coup regime. True, many people in this town know the truth; Eta instituzio ezberdinetan onartutako adierazpenek Eta mozioek ez dutela aurrera egiten, because you say, Mr Barrio, if this has been discussed many times and many motions have been approved, many, and what is the result of all of them? None. None, Mr. Barrio, why go cardboard "Come on, you've had to do almost a txirinbuelta egia" Some compare what happened in '76 at the Gastenames' with Derryn 72, Bloody Sunday; But I am going to refer, in this search for truth, to the Hillsborough tragedy of 89, when there were 96 amateur Liverpool deaths, and not only because the issue of violence in sport has been dealt with here today, but because their struggle to know the truth about what happened achieved it when in 2012 an independent commission of inquiry found that the police were responsible for the tragedy. The police, not how Thatcher used the fans, the police. Truth and reparation when also the Prime Minister offered his apologies in the House of Commons, but I also refer here to the families of Hillsborough; because, since then, they have continued to fight to know the truth, exactly as those of March 3. And right now they have in the English House of Commons a bill, the Hillsborough Act, which precisely establishes the requirement for police forces and public authorities to be transparent and truthful in legal proceedings, including their own rulings; not to do so, will have criminal consequences. I think we all think that we will be in a more advanced society democratically when we can aspire to such a law. I think the Cabacas would like to aspire to such a law, but I also believe that the contumaces, which Mr Semper said, are not going to be in order for this to progress democratically. And access to the truth is a very serious issue in the democratically advanced countries, because the public authorities only have legitimacy in the performance of their actions, if they respect the fundamental rights of citizens, which they do not do with 155 either. That is all that the public authorities of the Spanish State have been doing without doing since the 76th, and the truth, as proposed by the families of Hillsborough, as proposed by the 3rd of March, is the fundamental requirement for access to justice. Egia, justice age error! What do we know? We know that, given the gravity of the events, a Vitoria court in 76 had investigated the case, but it soon had to be inhibited, because when it was recognized that firearms had been used, the Public Order Court – the famous TOP of those years – argued with the Military Justice and at one point the Supreme Zanja's jurisdiction hall by forcing the Military Justice to take over the case. In March of 77, the Military Justice recognized the existence of a crime of murder. A homicide without homicide, that's right. Because, since he had not found out who the authors were, he proceeded to his provisional dismissal and, as we know, it was prescribed. Despite the recordings and testimonies, all proceedings opened in Spain have been discontinued, archived and dismissed in the military jurisdiction, in the investigation, in the Provincial Court, in the National Court, in the Public Order Court, in the Constitutional Court and in the Supreme Court, by statute of limitations, by question of jurisdiction or by the Amnesty Act. Baina ez familiak ez hiriak ez dute oraindik amor eman eta justiziaren bila jarraraitu izan dute. In 2014, María Servini, the judge from Argentina, had also ordered Martín Villa, Alfonso Allerio and Jesús Quintana to be arrested. But what was the answer to the Spanish Government again? He said that the jurisdiction of Spain is that of the Spaniards is the jurisdiction of judging the facts, and that when they had done so, these actions were not a crime. "Y la respuesta del Gobierno sprol, tanto el actual como todos los antearies, reapima la convición de son suceresdirectos de aquael régiginquista, el cual no se se produjouta niratur." 42 years later, the Spanish Government still does not act as the British Prime Minister with Derry or Hillsborough, recognizing the facts, responsibility, and asking for forgiveness. They continue to pervert democratic principles to cover up their shames, deny their responsibilities and continue to guarantee impunity to their collaborators, to the collaborators of the Franco regime that happens to them. Today, no one discusses that the facts constitute crimes against humanity and are therefore imprescriptible. That was signed by the Argentine Justice, but not by the Spanish Justice. We also see the last result of the Constitutional Court not to admit the application for amparo submitted by the March 3 Association, ensuring that the case does not have sufficient constitutional significance. The greatest tragedy, the greatest massacre, of the transition does not have sufficient constitutional significance for that court. Well, of course, no one's gonna leave here to keep looking for truth and justice. After the exhaustion of the Spanish judicial system, the way is being sought to go to the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights and other international bodies such as the United Nations. But truth, justice and reparation. They are also denied reparation. The truth has been denied, justice has been denied and reparation is still denied. The Association of Victims of March 3 also reported a few days ago that there has not been the slightest gesture of recognition on the part of the State and that its responses are increasingly outrageous. In addition, the Spanish Government will open a memorial centre in Gasteiz that will leave the victims of that massacre out of the way. The Victims of Terrorism Memorial Center is going to leave them out again. The association believes that it is the Memorial's model of exclusive memory, based on impunity and the oblivion of State crimes, which is the one that seeks to impose this Spanish Government. And the associations of 3 March have made a special appeal to the Basque institutions to dissociate themselves from it as well. They have done so to the City Council of Vitoria and they have done so to the Basque Government, which are present in the patronage. They think it's against it. The principles that equal treatment is a violation of international human rights law and, of course, we think exactly the same thing are in the opposite direction. And as with truth, it is observed that the people of Gasteiz every year makes March to the three associations, because few of the Spanish States have ever come. So, and for all this, we agree with the request, because we want to know the official truth, because it will also be necessary to go and look for justice, and we will continue with the 3rd March.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u86	Thank you, ma'am. Passing over to the non-correction teams, Euskal Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning – good afternoon, almost good afternoon – again everyone and everyone, and first of all, thanks to Mr Hernández and the group he represents for bringing this initiative – I do not know whether it is repeated or not – to Parliament and for turning back into it, therefore, memory, historical memory and democratic memory, whenever we have to pronounce on it. Obviously, we are going to vote – he has acknowledged that we have forwarded it to him – in favour of his proposal, and we are going to vote also in favour of the addendum amendment tabled by the EH Bildu Group. The names of the deceased have been mentioned: Pedro María Martínez Ocio, Francisco Aznar Clemente, Romualdo Barroso Chaparro, José Castillo and Bienvenido Pereda. They were the killed, along with them hundreds of wounded, at least half of the bullet. Yes, they were on strike, they were claiming their labour rights, fighting against wage caps, also fighting for the wage gap, indeed, Mr Hernández, and they were making a general strike against that. Franco had died, but Franco did not, and the Franco State responded with everything; it entered with everything. And, as some of the previous speakers have referred to the evidence in the report of the Valentin Institute of Foronda, it was clear that they were going to evict the church anyway, and they did. They did so with violence, and they did so by leaving some victims, who have not yet had access to the truth, because they have not been able to know and clarify the facts in the justice system, to which they have not been able to access, nor to the recognition and reparation that they have requested and established. We are not talking about this for the first time in this Parliament. Indeed, even an opinion has been made, after that of Valentín de Foronda. I believe that in 2008 there was an opinion from the special committee, and in both, it has become true of what has happened, although, perhaps, that truth does not coincide with that which is in some of the official documents, which were police reports that precisely built or contain only the truth of all those who were the killers, the people who murdered these victims. It has not been forgotten either by other institutions such as the General Councils of Álava or the City Council of Vitoria, which have acted in the courts to demand the recognition, reparation and compensation of these victims until the end, until they have been told that they could no longer do so. And, indeed, the Constitutional Court, understanding that this claim, the application for amparo against the file made by the Provincial Court of Álava, had no constitutional relevance but also because it considered that it was not included among the crimes against humanity, since it was prior to the criminalization of these crimes, filed it. No matter why it was archived; we believe that we must continue to support the victims, we must continue to support the platform that has kept the claims of these victims alive, when politics at best looked elsewhere, and support them to go to the Court of Strasbourg and also, at some point, to the UN Human Rights Commission, to achieve also that judicial truth, which corresponds to the historical truth or political truth that we have been able to treat both academics, parliamentarians and parliamentarians here and in other institutions in the Basque Country. It is true that these victims have been tried to be recognized in the administrative process. It was a milestone that covered them by the decree of victims of unjust suffering, which Idoia Mendia issued as a Councillor of Justice. They were also included in the Memory Act, but it is true that, with one thing or another, these victims have not had access to that judicial truth. We know the names, of course, even though we have not been told by a court; we all know them: the head of the eleventh reserve company of the Armed Police, located in Miranda, Jesús Quintana Saracíbar; the civil governor of Álava, at that time, Rafael Landín; the minister of government, Manuel Fraga Iribarne; the one who was of Trade Union Relations, Rodolfo Martín Villa, and the director general of the Civil Guard, Ángel Campano López. All those were responsible for the murders of those people, and it is true that that has not yet been clarified in a court of law. I would like to make a difference between that judicial truth, that right to justice, to the truth in justice that all victims have – and so it has been said – together with the guarantee of non-repetition, that of memory, that of recognition and that of respect... But I would also like to highlight the attempts made by the institutions to give substance to that truth, other than that contained in police reports. And I would like to stress this, because, in that sense, they have not been left alone, the only ones that have been left at other times by the institutions or the courts. I also agree, Mrs Larrion, that all victims have the right to truth, justice and reparation, but all of them are victims of a Francoist State, which acted with anger, blood and fire against workers who were trying to improve their rights. I am also – and this is compromised – when they are victims of police abuse; I am also, for example, when it is not about the State or a State official, with the more than 300 unclarified murders of the terrorist organization ETA. Everyone has the right to that truth, or at least to try that truth. And in that truth we have to commit ourselves all, without any excuse. I am committed, I am committed to doing so, and so is the Socialist Group. Therefore, I am not going to enter into the debate whether or not you considered me – the various governments – successor to the Franco regime. I do not consider it an offence, among other things, because it does not offend anyone who wants to, but who can. I can't feel questioned at any time when many of my companions were in the vicinity of that church that day. Not I, who am not Victorian, indeed, like you; but many of my companions were, and suffered the violence of the Franco regime, there and outside of Vitoria. But I do not enter into that debate, because the reply would lead to the debate on the rights of the victims we are dealing with now, which are those of 3 March. And that is why we say: yes to the declassification of these archives, either with the reform of the law introduced by the Basque Nationalist Party, or with the proposed law of Historical Memory Reform, which creates the Truth Commission by the Socialist Party to clarify all these facts that could not be clarified in the courts. But I'm committed. I pledge so far – I insist – not to get dirty by answering an accusation like I was successor to the Franco regime, because my party has belonged to those governments, which you considered successors to the Franco regime, which did not break. And obviously, I cannot share it, although I will not answer it either, as has been said on other occasions; because, if I answer you and you to me, as you did in the first question with that insult, precisely what is not going to be clear is the support that you and I share with those victims on 3 March, in both: in the right to truth, justice and memory, and in the respect that they have not to be used in a political conflict or in a political debate, which can only harm them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, ladies and gentlemen. 42 years ago, Viteiz lived one of the most difficult and terrible events of contemporary history. These events marked the life of many of the Gastians, and still trembles at the thought of them. For, ladies and gentlemen, there were no democratic regime in 1976, and the system relied on its legality as a franchise. And the legal arrangement of the Friancist Government did not admit to the people the rights and liberties of a truly democratic State. This government severely imposed on individuals and movements, and the lawful demands of society, men and men, who fought for freedom. And as he controlled all the spheres of power and all the territories of public activity, he did and destroyed what he pleased, without giving a reason or account of the excesses which he and his agents did. And besides, he manipulated the reality of what happened. So he made official versions of events, but these versions had nothing to do with reality. All this happened at Vitoria Gaaste that day in March 3th. However, our society knows exactly what really happened, and it is rejected by the responsible party to avoid their responsibility. It has been previously discussed, but independent examinations and examinations, such as Valentin de Foronda, the Institute of History, confirms his conviction, and maintains that the event of the Vittoria-Gaste was an unjust slaughter, which a non-democratic government gave orders to secure their conditions. José Manuel López de Juan Abadek 1980an esan bezala: "On March 3, 1976, with such sad memory, the heart of the Victorians is broken and the soul of the city is broken into a thousand pieces". Forty-two years have passed and, throughout this time, the victims of those events have relentlessly claimed memory, reparation and justice. On the other hand, there are several social and institutional initiatives which, over these years, have tried to retrace some of those wounds. Memory remains alive; however, impunity has persisted to this day. That is why we will support the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos and the amendment of Euskal Herria Bildu, because we want to offer our help and our support, once again, once the judicial route has been exhausted before the courts of the State, so that they can explore, initiate, the judicial route before the European Court of Human Rights. In this endeavour, the victims are supported by the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, the outlaw parliament and the General Councils of Araba, which have put at their service the legal services as well as the technical and economic means necessary, in collaboration with the association, to seek justice in international forums. And, on this path, it would be important that any classified documentation that could remain, that could exist, could see the light. Even if it's just so that we can remember the whole truth. Even if that expected justice does not come, let us be able to build our memory based on truth, in all truth. In any case, we know that, even if we make this request to the Government of Spain, we are faced with a law, that of official secrets, which allows the government in charge to do whatever it wants with regard to the declassification of documents. It has been 50 years since the adoption of this law, and 40 years since its timely reform. We believe that it is now appropriate to address, as part of the natural evolutionary process of any regulation, the adaptation to the existing social sensitivity regarding the value of transparency, consistent with the democratic principle that underpins – and should govern – our society. But the proposal to equate the democratic systems of our environment, proposed by the Basque Group in Congress, sleeps the dream of the righteous, blocked by the PP-Citizens; that is, Mr Barrio says that they cannot and do not want to. With which, all as it was! I am not optimistic about the outcome, nor about the consequences of this non-legislative proposal, nor about the judicial process. So far, the victims of 3 March have encountered both the wall of justice and the political wall that is intended to deny them their own status as victims. Despite the continued support of the Basque institutions, a simple political declaration, the recognition of the damage caused, would be sufficient to set aside this judicial crossroads. Why is it so complicated to admit mistakes? It was wrong, it was unfair. Is it so complicated to verbalize it? Is it so hard, really? Cameron did it, as Mrs Larion said, with Bloody Sunday; the German Federal Republic did it, with the bombing of Gernika. Is it so complicated to admit that it was wrong, that it was unfair? Is it that complicated? It's a matter of political will, nothing more. Or, in the light of the facts, nothing less. In any case, I am optimistic, not about the future of this non-legislative proposal, not about the road still to be followed by the victims on 3 March, but I am optimistic, because I believe that, even gradually, we are making progress in building a society in peace and normalized coexistence, a society based on sound public policies of recognition and reparation for all victims, a society therefore committed to the rejection of any human rights violations. Unfortunately, justice is not in our hands; reparation in part, yes, but what is in our hands is memory. I think that comes to the case those words of the collective homily read at the funeral of the victims on 3 March: "But the pain, which is expressed above all in silence, must also find a voice to show it and shout it, so that it is known that things are no longer as before these facts. And so that things never be to anyone else what they have now been and are to us." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u90	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. In the answer shift, would someone like to participate?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u91	No, very briefly. To tell Mr. Carmelo Barrio... I do not know in which part of this initiative there is a lack of respect for the decisions of any government. We ask one thing from a current government: that is no disrespect for the decisions they make. I mean, we think it's timely and good to do this. We are telling you this, not us, this Parliament is going to tell you; that is not not not to respect a government's decisions. And you have tabled an amendment which is another debate, and I think you have tabled it because it is another debate. It may also appear to me very well that this law of official secrets needs to be reformed, but as long as that comes – and therefore Mr Grajales has told you at the moment why he does not come too – the initiative we bring is perfectly feasible, and that is why we find it interesting to propose it in this Parliament, because this Parliament can do much more than legislate. Surely your opinion and mine on the functions of a parliament are different. And for us, among the functions of a parliament, it must also be to bring debates and initiatives that allow parliaments to be resonant boxes of just demands and struggles. Thus, beyond the fact that the Government of Madrid will tell us that no to this initiative – as we know –... the government of Mariano Rajoy and perhaps some previous socialist government would have told us that no – I do not deny it –, beyond that, it seems to us opportune to bring in initiatives here, which, as I say, can also make this House a resonance box.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u92	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Barrio, the word is yours from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u93	Yes, with your permission, from the seat, Madam President. Well, I'll tell Mr. Hernandez what I told him before, too. I have tabled the whole amendment that speaks of the Basque Parliament... I believe that it is within the framework of what is being requested, that it is the declassification of documents, I do not know whether officials or documents held by the State Administration, that it must be within the framework of the reform, that it is in progress, that it is well under way, but, well, it must have some procedure of extension of amendments, but well, I suppose that at any time this can be unlocked and the will, I believe that of all the groups, is to address that reform of that Official Secrets Act, to address the issue of the declassification in general of documents in relation to temporary spaces or without temporary spaces. I also want to say that that's the point... I have to understand that I have to preserve the Government's actions and decisions in that framework and in the framework of law enforcement, and that is why I am not going to vote in favour, of course, of its initiative. And otherwise, tell him I wish he'd declassified as soon as possible. I tell you again that as a citizen, as a Victorian, as a parliamentarian, I too have an interest in knowing him; here I have known very important studies. Indeed, we have referred to the actions of the courts; they were unsatisfactory, absolutely; they were unsatisfactory decisions of the courts. Another thing was the application of the Amnesty Act 1977; other effects had, indeed, but had also marked a transition process in that country. But, on the other hand, we also have to say, that, in honor of the truth, the truth was also there. There have been exemplary contributions to the truth by the Departments of History of our University or by institutes in history, some of which have served as a basis for parliamentary work in this House, so, in that sense, we can also see something there. Mrs Larion is now concerned about the Memorial Centre for Victims of Terrorism. You have to worry about the Memorial Center, I don't know if it's going to be the building or what it's going to be exactly. What Mrs Larrion is not concerned about and has never been concerned about is the victims of terrorism. She is concerned about that site, about that space, but she has not, of course, condemned the murder of the victims of ETA terrorism; she has not condemned it. That is to say, it is a paradox that, in a debate as serious as this, Mrs Larion is so frivolous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u94	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u95	Yes, thank you. Mrs Romero, if we are going to agree very easily on this: obviously all victims, regardless of the victim, have exactly the same right and we are going to reclaim it for them everywhere. Here are the steps, here are the results, and that's what we're going to do. I think this is the simplest part of everything: I don't know if it was necessary to remember it, but there's no problem in remembering it once or a hundred times, and that's where we're going to be. Mr Barrio, why have they not had the courage to come here and say we are not going to vote in favour of this, because that is what the People's Party is systematically doing? If we know that that is what is behind it, because, when Mr Grajales said, with all reason also, that there has been an accompaniment, and – it is true – in the institutions – for example, the City Council of Vitoria, the General Councils of Álava – it has been voted, agreed and accompaniment is going to be made to the victims of March 3, without their vote; it is systematic, without their vote. I was a councilwoman at the City Hall when Councilman Maroto also asked the victims of March 3 to forget, directly. That's what you do. It was you, too, when the March 3rd Association went to Europe, who turned their backs on them. The People's Party in Europe, when they came to testify, also turned their backs there. Mr Oyarzabal, also in this House, did not say in 2014 about March 3! Say what you really think, say why you have vetoed them from the Memorial, because you are not going to do that work, because you have a speech here and you have another speech in Madrid, because you have interests, even if it was because it was one of the founders of your party, Mr Fraga Iribarne, for what you want, but say it, if it is that simple. Many times the truth is that, coming to say that the People's Party continues to have a speech in which you are not going to recognize March 3, or of course, you are not going to do anything, because obviously there are recordings, recordings were made, you know what has happened, but that you do not want, you want to continue to guarantee the impunity of all those who are in your ranks and who had responsibilities with those facts. That is also part of the truth, and that is what the March 3 Association is often asking you to do. And maybe I didn't say it right in my speech, but when I talked about the Memorial, I said the words of the March 3 Association. Those are the words, what the March 3 Association said, which says of that memorial center from which you have excluded them; that is what you have done and, moreover, that is why it is much more sincere to come and say so, but, well, you have wanted to present something that has to do with the reform of the law, when we all know that what you are not going to do is to place yourself wanting to clarify justice, truth and reparation for March 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u96	Thank you, ma'am. Someone else, right? Mrs. Romero?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u97	If you'll excuse me from the seat, Madam President. Firstly, in order to take advantage of Mr Barrio's kindness and generosity with regard to studying the proposal for a law on official secrets and also to request that they lift the veto, together with Citizens, on the proposal for the reform of the Historical Memory Act, which establishes the Truth Commission, presented by the Socialist Party, and which also seeks or intends to give access to all those archives, whatever the type and ability to give that truth, at least, which have not so far had the victims of March 3 and also many other victims who remain buried, without name and without signs, by all Spanish geography, because no one has bothered to give them truth, nor to exhumate them, nor to give them the recognized burial where they should be. And now that we are talking so much about forgetting, I am not very religious, I am better with Benedetti and, instead of quoting a homily, Mr.Gajales will allow me to say that the victims of all violence, of unjust suffering, must be calm, because "the day or night when the forgetfulness bursts into pieces or cracks, the atrocious memories and those of wonder will break, the fire bars will finally drag the truth into the world and that truth will not be forgotten. Never forget." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Grakiles, okay? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u99	Look, Mrs. Romero, I'm not gonna tell you whether I'm religious or not. "I think it is something that does not occupy this plenary," but, in any case, I do recommend that you read the joint homily of the 80 priests at the funeral on March 5, 1976 in Vitoria. In any case, you have quoted Benedetti; let me quote Borges, when he said that "the past is indestructible; sooner or later things come back, and one of the things that come back is the plan to abolish the past." And I'm not an expert, like many of you, on this memory thing. Not because I don't have it, not because I don't work it; I mean in the theories and in the construction of memory. But, as I understand it, when you talk about memory or building that memory, you talk about three different models: One that looks to the past, based on what they call the memorial syncretism, the one that conceives of the past and memory as a fusion of all memories, that as a result everything is diluted and here nothing has happened, truth. Another, a second, that of the memorial antagonism they say, that which is based on trenches and which does not admit the memory to the contrary. And a third look, which is based on memorial pluralism, that which conceives the past as the sum of memories, in which these are found in a democratic dialogue, in a memory in which it must become a place for the gaze of others, but always with a condition: to recognize what was wrong, to recognize what was unjust. And I believe that in this House, many times, if we take the last 80 years, there are those who use the first for one stage, the second for the other and the other. And I think it is time for us in this society to accept, to better say, to assume once and for all the third and, among all, to be able to reconstruct a memory in which all the victims have their space. We too, Mrs Larrion, are very concerned that the management and management of the Centre for the Memory of Victims of Terrorism and its actions in Euskadi is being done without sufficiently counting the plurality of democratic sensibilities that exist in this society and also without having the Basque institutions. Don't be careful that we'll fight because this isn't still the case. In any case, Mr Barrio, I am not going to tell you the curious questions that arise from how the current Official Secrets Act is structured, when we have classified documents since the 15th century. I don't know if we're still afraid of being attacked by Berber pirates, we owe money to the Dux of Venice... I don't know! I do not know how that can affect national security and other issues, so what I am convinced of is that it does not make any sense, because it does not make sense in any country in our environment, which is in the hands of the government in charge, beyond these parameters, to decide what can and cannot be taught. The logical thing in countries – let's say – with a democratic trajectory of more than 40 years is that all this documentation has a specific exposure period and that at 25, at 30 to 40, it can leave. Then, I will tell you directly – as I said – as a citizen, as a Victorian and as a parliamentarian, to appeal to your parliamentary group – which, indeed, is where the capacity to do so lies – so that, in order for the facts of March 3 and others to be definitively clarified in the long history of repression that this country has experienced, they will unlock the process of that law at once, because, if not, we will remain in simple words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u100	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Now that we've finished arguing, we're going to vote first to increase the EH Collect Group. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of the country, 66; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u101	So the add correction has been accepted. After that, we'll vote together the original text of the same proposition as the Podemos. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of the country, 66; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u102	So, accept the original text. I interrupt here until 4:15... I interrupt the plen till 16:15. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and forty-five. At four o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at seventeen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u103	Five point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Oster Galirdo EH team, concerning the new lines of the railway line which are intended to be in the land of the Basque Country. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn is Mr. Otero's word for introducing and defending his initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u104	Well, I kind of want to take a nap, so let's start a little bit different. These are two friends who meet after a long time and one says to the other: man, Manolo, how long without seeing you? Well, yes, the truth. Well, how's it going? Well, there we go, and you? Well, shooting, too, and what do you do? Well, look, I have a small company and we make coffee mills. Here you go, coffee mills! So, what, that gives money? He says: well, I don't complain; for every mill I make, I lose a euro, but as we make a lot... Yo siempre que rightcho schiste, que que bastate malo que reconocerlocho, me auerdo del train de velocidad, y mouth me me voy a explicar. But before that, I want to give you all good afternoons, and thank you in particular to the people and the chosen people of the Plain of Aura, who will follow this discussion directly in the legislature. I hope this discussion will help you to understand better the fraud that lies around the new lines of the Spanish high Speed over your territory. Today, I think it's quite simple to understand our request. We have taken a middle-term correction with Podemos, starting from a wall of the Euscal City, and making three very definite remarks: the second, that it is important that two projects, which have been introduced, Iruana-Y, and Gasteiz-Burgos, must be abandoned, and the third, by grafting the third thread, must be encouraged by the improvement of the tracks now present. All this seems to have aroused no sufficient interest in EAJ, PSE, and PP, because they have not introduced any more, and now we shall see what can be brought out. I shall not enter into many details about the given projects. It seems to me that in the land of Araba, in the first sector, in the natural area, there has already been much talk of the influence of their inheritance; the influences will be very great and lasting. The citizens, the counts, the townships, and the quadrills, have said better than I can say here, who know the reality much better than I do. The indubacence of the Arababa has also said that the project that has been introduced will have some severe influence, which is only a slight change in the project, which we believe is merely trying to deceive again. I'd like to see what EAJ's finally has in mind what his position is, because I think you're all trying to get sick. I mean, what's your choice? Getting to the kiosk through the hedge, through the Alstau, connect it with the Iruña Gasteiz... Because in different places, select different places and different governments, you're saying different things. But, more than this, it seems to me in general important to me, that, if you choose to settle where your priorities are, it seems to us that what you have remarked as your privilege is carried out with the solution which we propose. That's why we don't understand his attitude. We, when the Arangcha Tap speaks, I said to him, we have so many consensus. Where are the agreements? Easy, in the future, it will be important to train and elect the transport of merchandise, if the origin of electricity is always retractable. We agree also that merchandise is more important than merchandise, merchandise, and security than speed. And it is often repeated that the example of Germany, which appears to us to be also attractive to us, in which the matter has been made use of in the rational way of modification on the network, and of mixed use by default. The problem is that you're saying that, but in practice, you're in the Spanish model. And the Spanish high Speed model is very precise, and socially harmful, looking around and economically. In practice, I'm going to Spain. And I think at this point, what's on it starts to be something else. It is important to speak a little clearly of the Spanish infrastructure policy and, above all, of the Spanish High Speed; because, the longer it goes without rectifying, the more environmental, social and economic damage will be done. And it is difficult to explain here in 10-15 minutes the number of reasons why you have to stop the madness of high speed. I do not think that there is another example in the world of insistence, of stubbornness, of waste, of poor planning and of the negative economic consequences that it is having and will have in the future to insist on increasing high-speed lines. The scene is starting to be so grotesque that I appeal here to your responsibility, and when I say you, I mean political parties, the government and also the media. Everyone, so as not to go further in this blemish. And I invite you to review the qualified opinions a little bit, to review the accounts, to stop talking about the minutes that will be saved someone who travels once a year in an AVE, to stop doing cheap propaganda, to stop doing electoral politics with this issue, because the numbers at this point are unquestionable. At this point, it's by common sense. It's for the protection of the environment, but, above all, as Clinton told Bush father, "it's for the economy." He said stupid; he won't repeat it. I don't have much time to go deeper, but I'm going to put some data on the table – I don't think they're going to be able to question them; they're all from official sources. And I'll start. Spain, today – I don't know if you see it; it's in blue to differentiate – (Orri batzuk erakutsi ditu) [[Leave a few pages on the top table]] –, is champion on highways and highways also per inhabitant, and is the champion in the opposite direction, in use of high speed. If we look at the use of miles of AVE and year travelers, we see that Spain is here, so small!, far away from other countries, even from countries like France, which already has a network of AVE of more than 2,000 kilometers. Spain has a network of over 3,000 kilometers, 3,200 and peak, and the hope is to go to 4,500. But all this has been done within a waste infrastructure policy, in which it seemed that there was no substance. In 2010, when the Secretary of State for Transport of the United States went to visit some infrastructures in Spain, was Pepiño Blanco the Minister of Development at that time – Pepe, well, José Blanco. Mr. Ray LaHood told the minister – and I think with a great deal of irony – "You are very rich; we cannot afford it." Could Spain afford it? Do you really think he could afford it? It looks like it. And when we compare Spain with Germany, if we look at investment in railway infrastructure from 2003 to 2015, we see that Spain has invested 75 billion euros, of which almost 60 billion have been at high speed, 80%; while Germany, in those same years, has invested 57 billion euros, with a Gross Domestic Product that triples to Spanish. Was there really money? And it's a curious thing to keep promising the AVE to everyone, and Minister De la Serna is announcing that the AVE will arrive soon everywhere. And the People's Party in Vitoria is even bollocking the wonders that the minister is going to bring us. And now it turns out that, from the memorandum and from the cuts, which have, among other things, much to do with infrastructure policy, with the hole that was created in Aena by the ghost airports, they had to sell half of Aena, after it had a debt of 14 billion euros. Well, in Adif things are even worse, and in the last three years we see that, in fact, high-speed investment is practically zero in execution. Which, of what I promised, I don't know what you're going to stay in. And it is curious, because it is not necessary to put money in railway infrastructure, because it turns out that of the approximately 500 million trips that there are in Spain a year, 92% are in proximity and half distance conventional, for 8% high speed, to which is added Avant and Alvia. That is to say, all this expenditure, the 50 and the peak billion in deployment, has been made in order to have 8% of rail travellers. 20 million in strict AVE that reach up to 30 and some million, if we add those that go by third rail and the services of medium distance, Avant of medium speed. All this, of course, has not been free. And behind all this, because it's been financed... well, all this has obviously been financed with a lot of debt. And the debt is reaching an atrocious limit. And as I said earlier in the joke, the lines are deficient, but as we do many, because each time it turns out that we have a bigger debt and it's going up year by year. In 2016, the debt of Adif High Speed, for that 8% of travellers moving, was about 16 billion. 2017 has surpassed that figure, and Fomento is still saying that it is going to raise the high-speed spending debt by another 2,000 and peak million euros more, to reach a debt of 18 billion euros. They had to sell half of Aena, with 14 billion euros. This is gonna break! We all know that. And it turns out that we all devote ourselves to going, to raising our hands and saying, "Minister, Minister, bring me one more line to my land; put me a third rail here; put me a new high-speed line", because everything is a priority. It is a priority to unite Madrid with Coruña; it is a priority to unite Vitoria with Barcelona, and it is a priority to have AVE in Soria, Cuenca, Albacete, Teruel and so on. I'm running out of time, but, well, the thoughts I wanted to make, I wanted to make one that I think is important. At this point, the experts have already spoken; the president of Renfe has spoken, when in 2010 he said that it is not necessary, from the point of view of public interest, the existence of high-speed services, and it is absolutely interesting, from the point of view of public interest, that there are close services between the cities, which is what the inhabitants of the Alavesa Plaina are demanding for example, to whom they are going to try to put on a high-speed train that will give them nothing but problems; or in 2015, the president of Adif, when he said that "the AVE has neither feet nor heads. With 24 million trips a year our AVE network cannot be sustained." 24 million in 2015. 24 million travelers is what has only the Paris-Lyon line. And the French Court of Auditors has said that it is not possible to continue to extend without Spain is the country of Europe in the 24th place in the transport of goods, with 4.6%, and is going down every year, just ahead of Greece, Cyprus, Malta and Ireland. And the needs are at high speed or are they in the goods, have we stayed? One last: Fedea, Fundación de Estudios de Economía Aplicada, has already done the analysis on real data – Fedea si, Fedea, Ginés de Rús, Germà Bel and all others – and all the data it has given so far is official data. What he's saying is that there's obviously no profitability even if the social discount is applied to him; but it's known everywhere in the world that the high-speed train can only serve if it connects large metropolises, which are going to have a very large use. The metropolises, the state metropolises, of course, are Madrid, with about 6 million, and Barcelona, with just over 5, and yet, profitability will not be able to turn over more than 50% of the investment. It turns out that the metropolitan areas of Bilbao, Gasteiz, Donostia and Iruña total, of all, one million eight hundred and peak thousand inhabitants, one third of either of these two agglomerations. Today, the use of the AVE is 7.5 million, in Barcelona and Madrid; divided between three, counting on a good forecast, we would stay in two million shorts, and we are still trying to sell that the high speed train will carry between four and five million passengers...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u105	Go to the end...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u106	... and yet all, with these rates, with the rates of use or the demand for use, the profitability study is being carried out, and it turns out that the high speed line is not going to have a profitability nor to pay the variable costs of operation and maintenance. That's the line, the Madrid-Hendaya axis; now count the cantabrian-mediterranean axis, to see what's left of it. You're going to sacrifice... And I see you don't want to back off on stopping this. You are going to sacrifice: you are asking the inhabitants of the Llanada or of Valles Alaveses to put the body and you are going to have to put the body for nothing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u107	Thank you, Mr. Otero. The corrections, please... Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u108	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning to all. All good afternoons, I'm sorry. The Spanish Government presents two lines of high speed train: on the one side of the Gasteiz, and on the other the Gasteiz-Burgious. Neither of them are necessary. We do not need these lines, on the one hand, because there are ordinary railways between these cities, and, on the other hand, they must show and verify the necessity of building new lines, and they have not done so. That's why after the motion introduced by the EH Collectors, we corrected it, and we came to a middle-way and signed it. Las dos líneas de alta velocidad que el Gobierno de Escula de España ha presentado rectentete para concentir entro Pamlorna y entre Burgos y Gaszi no son neceurs. No las necesatamos! We do not need them, first of all, because there are already conventional lines in that layout; conventional lines that are improveable, obviously, in which the layout can be renewed by removing curves, reducing slopes, suppressing steps at the level and, of course, adapting them to the international width through the third thread. Not only do we not need them because we already have lines, but because, under no circumstances, they will be profitable, as has been said. No Spanish high-speed line is profitable today. Each and every one of them is deficient, each and every one of them. Therefore, in the case of high speed we cannot talk, under any circumstances, about what we are making investments, but about what we are spending. And this has to be made clear. Not only are they not going to be profitable, but that spending is going to be astronomical. The Pamplona-Vitoria line stands at 900 million, 2,000 if it goes for Ezkio-Itsaso; Burgos-Gasteiz line 2.4 billion; 4.5 billion between both, with the addition that Burgos-Gasteiz line will not even serve for the traffic of goods, which is what Euskadi needs. For what is going to serve the construction of these lines is to enlarge the astronomical financial hole that the AVE is creating in Spain: 70 billion euros since 1992. Since that year, they have dedicated themselves to emptying the public coffers and filling them with spider webs, and, in return, they have built us a huge financial hole of EUR 18 billion in Adif, which is possibly very graceful to us, but the European Union does not do any, and the European Commission has already made it clear that, with cohesion funds, it is not being played out and that, when cohesion funds are being used to build infrastructure projects, a cost-benefit analysis must be carried out, which has not been done on any of these lines. And already in 2015 the European Commission has made it clear that Spain's investment policy in AVE is absolutely deficient, and has written: "There is a risk that the new lines will not generate enough revenue." It's not that there's a risk, it's that it's a reality: none of them generate them, none of them generate them. And if they are not necessary from an economic and financial point of view, what about the need for people. No one... no one is asking for high-speed lines in this country; neither are they asking for it in the Sakana, nor are they asking for it in the Alavesa Plain, nor in the Burgos Bureba, nor in the Lower Ribera, nor in the Alavesa River, no one is asking for a high-speed line. They're not necessary for people. They are not of general interest, as you are saying; the only interest you have is to continue doing business, doing business with public money and doing business with unjustified overcosts. The first high-speed line that was built in Spain, Madrid-Sevilla, had an overcost of 30%, Madrid-Barcelona of 31%, the Basque "Y" goes for 43 % of overcosts, 43 %. Is this good management? In the case of the high-speed train, as I have said, there is no general interest, and there is no reason for making new railway tracks. The only cymbal is to keep going with the business: on the one hand, the neck of public expenditures, Spain, and Eucharadin; on the other, the necks of the public deficit in Spain, and increase the overtures of the labors. Now and here the only public interest is to stop these lines and to re-echo the tracks. I will end with a little joke jam that I made in a committee, in a Mrs Tapia appearance, saying that, at this stage, one day we will consider making a high-speed line between Lutxana-Erandio and Lutxana-Barakaldo, and I don't think it exaggerates much, given the lines that have been set up in Spain. And the reality is that, when she was here in March 2017, European Transport Commissioner Violeta Bulc said one thing that cannot be said more clearly. He said, "Going to AVE is phenomenal, but it has to be viable, and it has to be viable because, if not, it becomes a real economic burden." And this is what the high-speed train is in Spain and in Euskadi: a real economic burden that is tearing us apart, is going to tear us apart, for decades. That's all, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u109	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Quiet, please. Passing on the day that no correction has been offered, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, representing the Basque Potula team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u110	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Otero. The first point of his motion reads as follows: "Parliament declares that it is a priority to promote a change of mode in the transport of goods, gradually moving goods from road to rail". Indeed, Mr. Otero. Mr Otero fully agrees on this first point, with the Government, with the opinion of the Government of Spain, with its Minister of Development, Mr Iñigo de la Serna, and also with the Group of the European People's Party. Minister De la Serna presented on December 14, 2017, three months ago, to representatives of the sector, the Plan of Impulse of the Transport of Goods by Rail 2017-2023, and you, who read a lot and is assiduous to the reading of everything that the Ministry reports, I find it strange that it has not referred to this plan, that it has obviated it, as if it did not exist. Yes, Mr. Otero, there is a plan to boost the transport of goods by rail. 2017-2023, and to your knowledge, Mr Otero, in this plan it is collected and it is written, because you also said that none of this was collected in any plan nor was it written, that Spain presents measures to guarantee the continuity of the transport of goods by rail throughout the Spanish territory and, therefore, also in Euskadi. Therefore, Mr. Otero, you do not speak the truth in this rostrum; you do not say it, because you have read it. I know you've read it. But I am very pleased that it coincides with the Minister and the approaches of the Group of the European People's Party and the Government of Spain. I am very happy, because, look, we also have the Management Plan 2017-2019, developed by Renfe Mercancias to improve its efficiency. Indeed, the Government of Spain is implementing measures to support the railway operation, in line with Community legislation and practices in other countries of the European Union. It also supports the development of railway motorways, for which the implementation process has already begun. And as I told you, Mr Otero, we have a management plan for Renfe Mercancias, and this need to establish specific policies on the transport of goods goes through several actions: to improve the efficiency of the operator – this is what measures of this plan are being dedicated in its 10 months of validity. You say today, in March 2018... In his initiative, what he comes to say is that we have to push... Look, some people have been pushing this for three or four years, and I'm surprised you haven't heard. Yes, you have heard, but it is obvious; you have to adorn your intervention and it is obvious. Therefore, I will repeat to you; all that you have read, I will repeat to you. This need to establish these policies also involves redesigning their commercial activity, boosting international traffic, identifying and managing surplus material, adapting staff to new needs, and so, in these 10 months of operation of this Renfe Mercancias management plan, the results account has improved by 38,7%; that's what you're so worried about, because it's improving. Indeed, the results account is being improved. The gross profit trend has been reversed, with a variation of more than 88,8 %, which means that the balance, basic and necessary balance has been achieved in order to meet the challenge of promoting rail freight transport. That's what worries you today, in March 2018, but that's been worrying some of you for quite some time and what you've worked hard for, to get to these plans, consensual with the sector as well. Because, look, Renfe Mercancias' activity has changed its trend and, during 2017, it has increased by 9 % compared to 2016; the volume of goods transported has increased. You haven't read it, you don't know, but I'm going to tell you: Renfe Mercancias is in a process of redesigning production capacity, through the provision of management systems that allow its planning, after a phase of sanitation, because it has had it, the phase of sanitation. And those graphics you've taught us are ancient; they're ancient, and they trap us, they trap us; they're not of this moment, they're ancient. And a recapitalisation process must be initiated, with a material investment plan adapted to the new scenarios of railway infrastructure. It is true that, for a time, it has not been possible to invest. We were bankrupt; I don't know if you know, but we've been trying five years trying to overcome – and we've managed – the bankruptcy this country was in. And today you can invest and you will acquire new locomotives, as the traction material is decisive for the competitiveness of the supply. There has been a great deal of emphasis on the timeliness of the service, which is widely valued by companies, and has been increased by 10 points. Account must also be taken of the extent of the international width, which must be made compatible for the exploitation of the Iberian width. The expansion of network electrification, consistent with the decarbonization objective of the transport system and with tensions of 3,000 to 25,000 volts. EUR 100 million will be invested in the acquisition of new locomotives, of which 40% will be hybrid. The most sustainable material will be chosen. Aid will be put in place to encourage the use of rail for freight transport, an aid plan compatible with Community law and authorised, designed to encourage the use of rail in freight transport. EUR 25 million per year for five years to encourage the use of rail transport for goods. There is an important commitment from the Ministry for Spain to reach the modal share of freight transport by rail as in Europe, which is 17.3% and we are 6%, not 5 as you said. It's just that he twists the numbers a lot; he's very interested. The White Paper on Transport, which was drafted in 2011, advanced the need to decarbonize the transport system and set the objective of transferring 30 % of land freight transport to rail by 2030, and by 2050 the target is 50 %. And that's what the Ministry is dealing with, and for that it has the management plans first, and then, of measures and actions to promote the transport of goods. And according to the methodology accepted by the European Union, in Spain the transport of goods by rail avoids the society costs related to air pollution, accidentality, congestion or noise, valued at 28.37 euros per 1,000 tons/km transported, which in 2016 has entailed a total saving of 428 million euros. The Ministry has started the process of implementing the railway motorways in Spain, which will be developed in phases. That which you also said in the interpellation, which was impossible, unworkable, because you are in it, and you are going to try and you are going to get it. Then, he proposes to paralyze projects (Burgos-Vitoria and Vitoria-Pamplona), and look, Mr. Otero, he has explained to us that he does not like TAV, but it is that we already knew this: 30 years ago almost you have been telling us that you do not like it. And I can understand that you don't like it, listen, but it is that others think that they are strategic projects, that of course they are necessary and, therefore, because you return to 20 years ago, and I remind you that the high speed in Euskadi was already paralyzed, rather it was kidnapped, we could say... And what did it do? Did it do any good? No, no, It didn't do any good. They haven't made any progress. They have not progressed in this – I don't know if they will. In other things they will move forward: before they were against sports ports, now they are in favour; before they rejected the government's energy policy, they denounced it, and now they will come to an agreement, right? That covenant that is announced is also with you. Tell all your affiliates and all your supporters that they will come to an energy pact in Euskadi; tell it, tell it! So, I think we're at a time when we need strategic projects, and this is a strategic project. The allegations have been made, and I believe that they are being studied and analysed in depth in order to arrive at those changes according to the sectors and the administrations. And we are at that stage; therefore, I believe that we will be able to move forward in this direction and to make this project as impactful as possible. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u112	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good afternoons. Well, if it's Friday afternoon, and I'm counting on this, then it's the Zuline Key train. Begira, gu, lehenik eta behin, zuen lehengo puntuarekin, ba bon, bat cataz, ezta. We agree that a change of mode in the transport of goods must be promoted and that we can gradually move from road to rail. In fact, this government – not just this one, but previous governments – has been working hard to make that possible. Moreover, it has been done in multiple ways, promoting a mixed high-speed network that allows the compatibility of the service of travellers in a competitive way with that of the goods, building logistic platforms that make, of that way, competitive routes, and that give the appropriate service to those companies that want to use them, developing new railway tracks to facilitate, for example, the access to the ports. Anyway, I think there are multiple examples. Finally, yes, because we, both the two groups that support the Government and the People's Party, understand that the connection between the "And Basque" and Iruña, well, is a good alternative. And we also believe that the connection itself through Ezkio-Itsaso can be one of the best alternatives. I believe it and I say it. I don't have any complexes. Why? First, for functionality. Second, by temporary economy. Because, somehow, that too can save a number of times and can make that service much more competitive. By plot, because it can be even shorter. Anyway, I think there are multiple benefits. And yet, since it could not be otherwise, we are against EH Bildu's proposal to unite the "And Basque" through other ways, renewing the current line, incorporating the international standard width. Why? Firstly, because we understand that it could have an important impact on urban areas. Secondly, because we understand that it would not achieve the functionality of the Basque Y itself, since the layout, in some way, could penalize in terms of travel times, it would not make it competitive, neither for travellers nor for goods... We even understand that it would prevent high-speed traffic, proximity and goods from being compatible in one way. It would be very difficult to match it. And finally, some saturation could be caused. In addition to that – and with this argument to what Mr Becerra said – it is very likely that adapting that path to that situation could probably be even more expensive than building new ones as it is being done. We do not agree to paralyze the high-speed connection between Vitoria-Gasteiz and Burgos. We understand that the Vitoria-Gasteiz/Burgos connection is part of a railway corridor that is strategic for this country. A high-speed corridor in the Atlantic, Strasbourg-Madrid-Lisbon, which is, not only a priority for us, but also for the European Union, which is putting money into this project. We understand that pushing this path makes connections with Europe much more efficient, and not only that they are much more efficient, but, in many cases, that they are possible, because at the moment this connection is relative. We think he's got a lot more benefits than damages. Look, we understand that, as is customary in you, you want to apply the policy of non-permanent, of blockade, of torpedoing... It's historically been his strategy. Now it seems that it is also the strategy of Elkarrekin Podemos. I think it is clear that the current rail network requires many changes, that it needs modernisation, needs to adapt to the new times, needs to be much more competitive, needs to be much more sustainable, much more efficient... And that's what you have to invest in. Here, in many moments of your interventions, we have been able to hear about the shortfall in the construction of these infrastructures, even the shortfall in the provision of these transport services. I would ask you one question: do you tell me a single public transport that brings benefits? One. One... In any case, public investment is also for that. That we publicly invest does not mean that we have to get a benefit; not necessarily. That is why I ask you to give me just one example of a public transport that brings benefits; there will be very few. I don't think I can get them to tell me more than two, three, four... I don't know, I don't think they're capable. I'm surprised, but I don't think so. In any case, we believe that this infrastructure, these investments, are necessary, and that they also represent or benefit this country, not only because we will be better communicated with the outside world, with the rest of the plateau, even with Europe, even internally. You guys were talking... In the end we will end up having a high speed network Lutxana-Barakaldo. Well, I don't know if we're going to end up with that; but, look, if it was a public service, efficient, effective and truly valid for citizens, why not? Why not? What is at stake is to serve the citizen, to facilitate life, and that, in some way, we all banish the use of the private vehicle for transport that is much more sustainable. But it looks like your bet isn't that. You go from sustainable, from environmentalists, but it turns out that your bet is still the use of the private vehicle, or of public transport that are, of course, far less sustainable than a train. But, finally, you can continue to preach a lot; you can continue to show yourself as an example even of sustainability, and come here with a glossary of almost a dozen A3 printed in color, which seems to me to have very little ecological. Well, anyway. After all, as you have always been... I'd ask a little respect, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u113	Come on, please, silence. Who whistled? Well, out on the street. Please be quiet. Things like that are forbidden in this parliament. Please be quiet. Please be quiet and out. I told you out. Please, please, get out. Respect here, out on the street... Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u114	Thank you, ma'am. What I said to them: that you can come here and try to preach; but, in the end, there are things like reality, which ends up being silly. And, in the end, for a country to move forward, investments of another kind are needed and not to be obsessed with its non-permanent, its lock, its blockade and its desire for this country to continue to advance by car with oxen and not by high-speed train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u115	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u116	Thank you, Mrs. President and all the good afternoons. I must say how easy it often becomes to whistles, and it is true, for the sake of a more relaxed atmosphere, that it is a kind of gratitude to make jokes here and now and then, but even to those who whistle, we ask those who don't share their opinions to respect. Nevertheless, I do not know whether or not this discussion has been helpful, but it is true that Mr. Oster has brought in a great number of arguments, strong arguments, about the high speedy train to explain their position or their position, but it is true that if anyone closes his eyes, he would think that we are in Spain, and not in the Basque Parliament. I think you have been much focused on the argument or reason of the Spanish high-speed train; but, well, we must at last consider this as a motive following an intermediation, and in this interpelation you had the opportunity of asking so many questions to the chief of Tapia, he had the opportunity to give an explanation, and well, as you said in the expression of the investigation, that they were not, or that you wanted to be, but that one thing was not to be, and that the other was not to please. So our team's attitude hasn't changed. As you will understand, we're all protected by fun, we're one of the teams we protect, and I'll talk like a congressman, not as an EAJ representative, but as a member of the legislature. And in that sense, just as Mrs. Tapia explained to you in reply, and even, as she has insisted this week over and over again, our position is in the original projects and as it has always been, so do you, not make the connection from the negative? That's what we approve of at first, and that's the position we're protecting today. But, it is true, there are other options, other options. Other institutions are also involved in these projects, and there are other options that are being discussed, and, well, I don't need to explain at least what its reasons are. On the other hand, you have said that our party, or our leaders, are agreed with what you propose, or that you have come to agree with it. Yes, well, we can understand it the other way around: As the chief physician told you in his interference, well, there are agreements, but maybe you agree with us too. And in this sense, in the middle he introduced, we agree with the first point. I think we all unite in that sense, or at that point, in that request. It is true, too, that this is not an initiative which begins at present from scratch; it has long been planned that the merchandise or merchandise should pass from the roads to the railway, and in this sense several undertakings are carried on. And it is not confined to a new platform, or to make a mixed network in the "Eusscal Y," but to go to the merchandise and travellers, there are several other undertakings: there is the southern railway line or the Lezoa in the harbor of Bilbo, and, well, the logistic platform, i.e. there is a general planning for this purpose. We think, then, that in this sense he is in the middle of the way, but that it is only a beginning, and that it would be a continuation of the work he is doing. Then I won't even go in... What data have you given us of the example of Spain, how many travellers are in AVE and how many villages in Spain, or have you said, "que tenemos una deuda mayor"; I don't know, but all looking at Spain, looking at the model of Spain. So I think this interference is very interesting, and if you give Mr. Matute, first in his previous law, to the person who brought the subject, he's sure to be very useful in Congress. In any case, and I'm talking about this middle-class thing that we're discussing today... Well, I have to say, too: and we believe that these answers were clear, and therefore their attitudes were very well fixed. And, indeed, it is a sign or indication that you have not worked for any other agreement. Finally, I think that their attitudes were very fixed from the beginning, and that there has been no such thing as any exchange of ideas, or exchange of propositions, or nothing. And that's the way it is, and I think we've got from the beginning what all these groups were talking about or what it was about. And, well, half-way focused. As I said, we wouldn't have any trouble with the first one, but I think you're starting from a wrong premise, right? There is already such a decision as this, or that there is an entrance into it. Then you asked me to stop the projects and to handle the tracks. I think we can't agree there either. In fact, what we ask of the Spanish Government is to let it sink, to speed it up, to carry this project forward. In fact, in early projects, 90. When they started talking about the early projects in the decade, 2010 was expecting that this infrastructure was already over. We're in 2018 and still what's missing, right? Therefore what we ask of him is contrary: Let him concentrate on this engagement he has made, and consequently the proceedings and all that he has to take to speed him up. And, on the other hand, we don't think it's so easy to manage the tracks that are now, and even in the interpelation, the chief physician explained it to you. It's not that simple. There are several technical aspects and many other types, and it's not that easy. So we can't go for it. And finally, it's true, I'd like to make a suggestion about it, because it's not in the middle of the line, but the Congressman who was asked for in the opening action or in the initial motion to ask for fun... Or the parliamentor used to tell her to fill up what was approved in the parliament, didn't he? Well, as long as he has a chance of fulfilling, determining, or negotiating what was decided on the legislature. Well, I think the US has confirmed this project that's being done by fun for the last 25 years. So I think we should consider that, too, right? A lot of times, well, there's a lot of hard-working initiatives, and well, it's a good job, too. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u117	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing on the answers, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u118	The environmental problem is going to be now that I'm doing photocopies here! That's going to be the environmental problem we're talking about on a subject like the high-speed train! In a little while, Mr. Sweets. Of course, you're the one who tells me you talk like a member of the legislature. Yes, as you are a member of the legislature, the other as mayor, the other as a deputy, the other as a government. What I'm saying is you're saying, or you're just saying, or I don't know who says, "You want to go to the river now," but Ramiro Gonzalez, what does he say? Ramiro Gonzalez says: No, he has to stay at Gaste, because there's a competition with PP to see who's bringing the AHT to the Gastize. Eta gero, herrietan, beast gauza batzuk exacten dituzuu, ez? Ze gaur ez duzue atzera bota nahi proyektua, baina Agurainen duela gutxi: "The Town Hall of Agurain manifests its opposition to the "V" plot of the informative study"... Iruraitz-Gauna: "Let the appropriate procedures agree to the total cancellation of the railway corridor project". PNV mayor, unanimity, PP vote in favour, by the way. So, of course... Leku Bakoitzean gauza bat esaten badugu, Azkenean, just like lucky daukagu and nahaspila horretan denekin on which to generate race, ezta? Ez dakit dakit dyn zintzoa bone, ezta? But I'll tell you something else: you say we look at Spain. Of course, but what a remedy! Where do you decide? And you go to AHT to ask where do you go? Liverpool? You go to Madrid. And it's with thee de la serna that explains what's settled about the Arangcha Tapia. And what happens if Spain decides to come to Gasteize? What do you say to him, but if he comes to Gastize, will you turn against him? Please answer me. And then you say: There are agreements. There are agreements, of course... Of course, we also think that the merchandise is much more important. But, of course, what's happening in the past decades is that the merchandise don't be pushed, because it's playing the big speed bet. And here I am also addressing Mrs Ocariz. That is to say, please tell me that the goods are being driven, and you have told me that I think of 30 million, 30 million euros a year or so, when an average of 6 billion euros has been spent over the past 13 years at high speed, without the impulse of goods, and now you are talking to me that the passage of goods to rail is guaranteed, for 30 million euros a year!Is that what you're talking about? Look, look, everything you are pushing – now you answer me – so much you are pushing that the European Court of Auditors had to draw up a report in 2016 warning of what was going on, that Spain had received more than EUR 4 billion between ERDF funds and funds for the European transport area and it turns out that 95% of the money had been spent at high speed, when it was being prioritized from Europe that the goods would go to the railways. And you have given me the data of one year, one year; but in this report it is that Spain, together with France, by chance the two countries that have developed the most high speed, are the two countries that have lost the most percentage of goods in rail transport, and you tell me about a last year in positive. This is the European average [[Show a page]] This is Germany, this is Spain, this is Spain, 4.6% of land goods and 2.8% of total goods, eta zuek abiadura handiko eredu hori babesten ari zarete eta inkonpatibilea da, ze Espaniak bear argi dauka: abiadura handiko trenaren apustua egin du, salairik gabe. And the Tapia was right the other day, and a lot of railways are ready to carry the goods, but they don't carry them. There was only one bet between Perpignan and Figueres, and he had to go into the box, and Florent Pérez is still asking the Government for money: The ransom of 557 million euros, which, after the investment of $1,000 euros, was to carry the line on six thousand and a hundred per cent per day, had been set in motion for three years, and the average was three hundred and a fig. Where's the bet for sale? It's all fake, and on the way to Burdria, on the way to Madrid, over and over again... and therefore ye have not spoken unto me. That is, the goods will not be carried away, and the Minister said plainly and openly in PIT2, in the general plan, it is not planned for 2024. to carry the merchandise in Europe during the year. Beraz, dena ikusita, éza ez said denborarik ematen Anduezari weretzuteko, bathe izan ditu gauza pare bat bear kuriosoak... It gives me the feeling that, at this point, with everything we know, because here we are talking about that this is strategic, it is a priority, but the data have not been discussed and the data are dramatic. So, what I'm saying is, here are three reasons why you can support VAD: One is if one is a thief. You will tell me, we are not thieves; very well, because, if one is a thief, something can take. You will tell me: we are not thieves. That's fine with me! The other is being a fool, in the etymological sense of the word, of someone who doesn't know. You tell me you know what's going on. For there's only one left, is that you're fanatics, you're high-speed fanatics; because, before all the evidence that's showing up on all sides, you don't take a step back. 30 years ago we could discuss whether this could be interesting or not; everyone was discussing it. 30 years later, everyone is rejecting it, so Spain is the one that has more kilometers of AVE per million inhabitants, because everyone else is rejecting it, and you... I, since this is engineering, I – the last one, not – offer you a very simple engineering, which are...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u119	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u120	...that are three little steps, so that you at once get off the donkey. That's all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u121	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u122	Well, sir, we're on our side of agreement, and you know it. But you have introduced no repentance, and it is not possible that we should come to an agreement with you, because in this case nothing has been introduced. I understand that you are uncomfortable with this debate, because I understand that part of the government does not see with good eyes this high-speed lines that the Ministry has proposed and, possibly, are contrary; the problem is that, of course, among firefighters you cannot tread the hose, and to guarantee support for the business of the Basque Y, because you have to guarantee support for the Spanish high-speed. They don't have another... But we could have reached an agreement perfectly, because it is feasible to use conventional railway lines; indeed, it is desirable and one of the things proposed by the European Commission. I would say to Mr Andueza: an efficient means of transport? The conventional rail, the same as the high-speed train is being loaded, the same as the high-speed train is being loaded, the conventional rail. You look at how the conventional railway is evolving in Spain and you will see what the consequences are. You have spoken of making life easier for citizens. How does the AVE, the high-speed train, the life of the people of Sakana, the Alavesa Plain or the Alavesa Rioja? How does life make it easier for them? What general interest can be defended in the populations between the two cities that will join the high-speed train? None, nor the transport of goods. You talk about efficiency, competitiveness... There is no railway or no less competitive means of transport than the high-speed train, and neither is it more unviable. And this has been said by the European Commission, and the European Commission also denies Mrs López de Ocariz – I know they are nobody, but they deny you, Mrs López de Ocariz – because the European Commission expressly says: "The investment policy of the Government of Spain has focused more on the expansion of infrastructure than on its maintenance, and has favored an extensive passenger transport network, to the detriment of networks to improve freight transport". This was said by the European Commission in 2015. You have said Mr Andueza that reality is clumsy; indeed, reality is clumsy. The reality is so clumsy that the European Commission itself has opened a dossier, for example, for Renfe and the Government of Spain, because today the high speed in competition with other means of transport that are not being so subsidized is subsidized, and that goes against the European guidelines. But, right now, the biggest toddler is that we are facing an orgy of useless concrete and waste of public money like there has never been in this country. The €70 billion in money spent in Spain is equivalent to all the money that has disappeared from the pension fund since the People's Party came to the government. They are more than what is spent on education or health in a whole year, and this is an orgy, a waste, – as has already been said – sooner or later it will burst. And it's going to burst possibly from the European Commission, which is already telling the Spanish government that it's cheating on the deficit...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u123	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u124	... associated with Adif, who's hiding it, not as a public deficit... because I want to remind you that the financial rescue in 2012 was only 40 billion euros. Well, what we spent on high speed is twice what Europe had to give us in the financial rescue. Do the math! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u125	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u126	Mr. Becerra, I repeat, don't cheat on me. The aid plan – I have said this before and I repeat it now – is completely opposed to the European Community. In other words, Community legislation has made a report on the aid plan. Don't retort me the information; don't be cheating; put arguments on the table, that are common sense and logical; don't retort certain data and arguments. Mr Becerra, the most deficient today is the conventional railway; that is the one that is in a ruinous state. And our width of road knows that it is the Iberian, that it is not the international, that the territorial structure of Spain has nothing to do with that of Germany. Nothing to see, nothing to see! You're interested in comparing some things, but they're not comparable. And it is true that here we have many more kilometers; we have a lot of unpopulated territory, but must we communicate, or is it that you are against us being able to unite Murcia with Madrid, with Euskadi, with Paris? Are you against that? What do you aspire to? What do you aspire to? What's your future project? What do you aspire to? For in that we are; in that we are, Mr. Otero, in that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u127	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u128	We're... we're... we're... It is surprising, on the other hand, how long Navarra has been taken to say that it rejects this route of Vitoria. Neither during the months of drawing the preliminary draft has this said anything: neither in January when it was presented, nor in February, has it said it in mid-March. What a coincidence, what a coincidence... We'll see, we'll see, where this comes from; don't worry! I mean that we are facing a strategic project, we are facing a connection of the "And Basque" by Vitoria to the Mediterranean, passing through Pamplona, a strategic project – as I said – for Álava and Vitoria, and we want it to be done with the least impact possible. This will require a thorough analysis of the allegations and working together between administrations and also with the sectors concerned. Mr. Andueza, this isn't a "like" or "don't like." What a simplicity for a project of these characteristics! That's so simple! You said, "I like Ezkio better." Look, I like it, but do you think this project is "I like it" or "I don't like it"? But let's see, you're betting on leaving Vitoria and Álava isolated from a strategic project, and that's very strong. You are the ones who support the Government, two parties who support the Government, and the Government, what happens, which leads this strategy of leaving Vitoria and Álava isolated? Well, they point at ways, look, they point at ways. You will already leave here arguments where, in fact, you are working because Vitoria and Álava have a strategic project and form part of that "And Basque", as an important connection core. No, to Ezkio, to nobody's land, spending twice as much as expected and with a much greater impact. So, that "likes," can you explain it to us, please? I am very concerned that it may seem wrong for someone who governs in Spain to have an interest in connecting the Spanish cities, the territories of Spain, to connect with Europe. But I am much more concerned that you do not worry that someone who rules in Euskadi intends to give up strategic projects for one of our capitals; I remind you of the capital of Euskadi, territory of Vitoria and Álava. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is worrying. What are we going to do about the compromise amendment they have tabled? We – the first, the first point... – far exceed the activity of the government; it goes far ahead of what is said here. Therefore, the Government has already been promoting the connection and change of mode in rail freight transport for three years. The second asks to paralyze the projects, which has become clear – I understand – that we are not going to support it. And in the third, "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to work with the Spanish Government to reform the current routes, adapting their route and adjusting it to the international width in order to enable them to respond to new demands for transport, both for goods and passengers". You haven't read the answer the counselor gave you? I don't think he's read it to her. I think you were told by the Counsellor: "Both the Basque Government and the Ministry of Development, on the other hand, we have agreed on what characteristics it will have." I'm not going to refer to the Basque. As you well know, even if you say it's not true, the "And Basque" does have those characteristics of mixed traffic, travelers and goods; it does. It is also connected to Iruña and to the Mediterranean, because this has been defined by both governments, by the Basque Government and by the Government of Navarre and the Government of Spain. Therefore, this point remains; it is already being done. I am concerned that the groups of the Government support this point, because then they question the word of the Counsellor; I am concerned. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Socialists, Mr. Arrezá, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u130	Mrs López de Ocariz, in the variety there is the taste, but, of course, if I had been alert to my intervention, you would have realized that I have given three weighty reasons to support that. In any case, there's the session log; whenever you want to read it, you'll see why I like it. In any case, Machado said that they have to confuse value and price. And how true it is! And with the passage of time that continues to happen. Because, look, I asked a question to the two signatory groups of the transactional. I asked them, I told them, to tell me a single transport that would bring benefits. They had it very easy: they could have said no economic benefit, but everyone has a benefit, a social benefit. You who are so social have been unable to see the social profitability of just one public transport. Not this one, just one public transport. What are we going to do to him! In any case, Mr Otero, look at this whole band of chorizos, fools and fanatics because they have a parliamentary majority. What are we going to do to him! What is a pity is that this society does not know just how honest, how honest, how clever and how little fanatical you are. Because, to be so good, in which few places you rule, no, Mr. Otero! Look, you have a lot of custom...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u131	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u132	... to look at Spain. Look, you've looked at Germany. But, if you want to look towards Germany, I would recommend that you not just look at what you are interested in, look at everything, see if you see other examples in Germany that might be useful for you here as well. Mr Becerra said, who sees, that if there is a transport that has benefits, it is the conventional railway. And in that case, I have to give him the reason. It has two main benefits: On the conventional railroad, you can meet a lot of people, and there are times when you arrive at destination, you seem to know each other all your life. There are even times when on conventional railways you can get to age, you can get to age. So, well, let me, in the face of those benefits, enjoy the high-speed train a lot more. You said that the European Commission... who opposes, how about. Well, I don't know if he's against it, but he certainly finances it. So, if he finances it, a lot-many, he won't object either. So, finally, we see that here there are several models and that you do not like the model of managing Spain. Finally, if you put me on a scale the model of state management, as I do in many things, especially with the current government, I would not be left with it either. But if you put that model on the balance sheet, in which you have to pay 45 million to a company for not doing anything or even make another investment as important as the previous one in order to be able to implement a recycling plant, what do you want me to say? I'm probably not staying with your model either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u133	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. And finally, Eucabertians, Mr. Orbehabá, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u134	Thank you, again, Mrs. President. Well, Mr. Otero, well, I'll answer you as a member of the legislature, because I'm only a member of the legislature. And in that sense, what he said to you before or before, isn't it? I think we all know what our example is, the example of Euscal Y. And, too, it was clear, and even the head of the Tapias confirmed you from the fact that the connection that had been set up from the beginning would be a connection. That's what he confirmed. But it's true, too, that there are two other possibilities now. There are other options, and other institutions also decide. And so, when the chief physician was present, he answered a question which they asked him, saying that every opportunity has its own and its opposites. And that's the thing that's been done by you, and, well, according to that study that's going to be made, at least let's make up our minds as best we can. And I think that was clear. Therefore, if you would ask us, for our example, and at least for the number of the legislatures, what they stand for, well, there is the answer. And it's not very different ever since the head of the Tapyas said so. And of course, yes, where do you decide? Bala Madrid, but like so many other things. The blanket answered too, because you're asking the same questions again, the same questions that you asked in interpelation. And answers are the same. The ports of general interest, the airports, the infrastructure, are determined in Madrid. But what is our mission, why are we in the Basque Act? Well, at least, when it comes to us, they may be as useful to our country as we can, and I think we must all focus on it. And it's very expressive, and I think so too... You've given us a lot of arguments, but they've all been centered on the Spanish model, the Spanish's "unsperharro," etc., and so on. Let's focus on "Euscal Y." In Euscala's "Y" it's planned a mixed network for travellers, and for merchandise or merchandise. That's our model, and that's what we're gonna push it until we can. As far as we can, that's what we'll push it, and we're pushing it because it's the strategic project for us. The European Union also received it from the very beginning of the year, and gave it precedence in the '90s,' and we believe that we live in some strategic place, where it connects us to Europe, and that this boundary, the technical boundary, or the technological boundary, can no longer exist at this time. And so we think this is a strategic project and something to do, and we must do as soon as possible. I think, therefore, that Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz has misjudged him: I do not say that we protect, but that we agree with what was required in this first point, that there are already several undertakings which I think you have said the same, so that in this sense I shall not dispute with you. And, well, just for the sake of one thing, about what Mr. Becerra said: Mr. Becerra, this initiative was discussed on February 2nd, and the corrections, ending in the morning of March 14 in order to present corrections. So, I don't know, it's been while, right? I don't know, there was a chance to make a relationship. But in any case, it is plain what each group should have. It was discussed on February 2nd, and in February 6, we had a second scene on the same subject, about a similar subject, and I think it was clear from the beginning what the position or position of all the groups would be. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u135	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-16.u136	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. As there is nothing else, as we have exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-five.
