ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "The question is, that the members of the staff of the U.S.R.R.R.R.R.A.S.S.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.E.S.E.S.S.A.S. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u1	Thank you, Mrs. President. Mr. President, Chief, Congressman and ladies, good morning to all of you. The chairman of the Tapia, as you know, received and published the law of the Royal Decreut on the necessary measures of energy transition a few months ago. This description regulates so many themes as totum revolutum. But today I'd like to ask you about a certain matter, our companies, a measure that has a direct relationship with the hundred of our companies: It is precisely about the tarifes around the entrances of the carriers and the distribution. 6.1B and 62 of the rates have been a proclamation of euppression for years, and we have made a general Euko and Jaltarian Euko Party all these years. This proclamation seems at last to have become true from the hand of this royal decree, so that my first question proceeds from this point of view: what rating do you perform during this change Around? Bestetik, honekin bidea agortu ez de la uste dugu. Despite this progress, we believe that there is still a way to put our companies on an equal footing with their competitors in the European environment. We think the electric bill still needs change. – important, moreover – and a thorough cleaning to achieve a different energy model that equates us to countries like France or Germany. We believe that this issue is a priority for our industry. I therefore ask you what you think about this issue and what plans your department has, if any, to address this challenge that I raise with you. Before you go, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u2	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u3	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Mr. Grivores, as you mentioned, has been examined by so many measures and materials, but one which directly belongs to our hundred manufacturers, and is, in years, a proclamation from the Euscal industry. We've been trying all the time since 2013 to keep Esscal corporations from having another situation. Why? Because they were dissected compared to those around him. And this dissecting was somehow, too, about these paths. So the news is good of itself and a certain measure of what we've been asking for a long time has been accomplished. It's a good thing to be happy in that sense, though it's too late. We know also that, in a certain sense, it has been done as in two periods that this dissecting has disappeared. And we have to say this again: the discrimination disappeared. In other words, there was an incorrect allocation of what were the tolls that our companies suffered. An incorrect allocation that made our companies discriminated against those in their closest environment. And what has been achieved is, in fact, in two stages, to achieve a parity situation, to avoid such discrimination. It is no advantage over the rest, but to make that discrimination disappear. It has been done in two phases – we were commenting on it – and supposes, of course, that they are in a similar competitive situation. It should also be noted that in 2013 we started working on this issue as a result of structural changes in access tolls making the discriminatory situation even worse; then, the current situation has allowed that situation to be reduced and equalized, and the reduction is 43 per cent. It was worth 100 million euros what our companies were paying too much; so it's good news. However, as you said, it is not the only one, since in 2013, in the face of structural changes, the Basque Government met with the most affected companies, with the industrial companies, and we adopted an agreement to establish a series of actions and to make a request for measures that would enable competitiveness not only to be matched to those of the electricity toll environment, but also to companies, as you said, which are in a close, European environment. We can all already see ourselves as being in a virtually unique environment throughout Europe, and companies that have plants in Euskadi and plants in France, Germany, Italy and elsewhere found that plants were actually operating differently. There are other measures to be able to begin to alleviate this situation too and we have raised them on more than one occasion to the ministry, measures that are very associated with what is the disappearance of certain taxes that should not be on that invoice that we are paying, those associated with interruptibility and so many other measures in which, of course, we are going to continue to work and in future meetings that we are already busy, both with the Minister of Industry and with the Energy Transition, we are going to try to implement and that will, of course, allow us to establish an energy tariff, an electric tariff that will help industrial competitiveness, that will also use energy as a factor of competitiveness. It is an element that we believe to be crucial and in which we will continue to work over the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which of the members of the Council of Irdale Irina, the President of the Union, who will make the popular alliances in strategic matters like education." Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u5	Mrs. President, members of the legislature, chief officers, Mr. Urkullu. Good morning. It is, as I have often said, a fundamental column of education to educate free, critical, clothed, and wise persons; so it seems to us that it is indispensable to the development and future of a people, in a great degree to the future, that it is the future of a people. This is why it must be one of its most important lines to any government, and in this sense euscal education is fundamental, and it is a great lever to make this or that part of our people the higher. The equality of choice, the incluation, the success, the preparation, the happiness of all the students, and we must in this way accept and perform a new educational law, which will not depend on Spain, which is uncertain, mobile, and changing, as in most surrounding countries there is no guarantee. Hence, on the 22nd of October, we have been extremely concerned about what happened at the Board of Education, that the document was accepted by the Euccan Party Jeltarian Party, PSE and Party Populars against a vast majority of educational tenors. With whom and the Party Popular! As for the establishment of LOMCE, which denies the same people, who seek to exclude it, sometimes doubts of existence itself. And with PSE, unfortunately, except for some things, he's out there somewhere. That's why I ask you: I'll repeat it over again in strategic matters such as education: in the strategic matters, will the President approve of the popular tradition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u7	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, the priority of education agreement has at first been the unit of education, the unit of education. The bureau organized a first-class job last year, September 25th. Thirty of the education and social operators who work in the field of education were united: members of the family associations, teachers, directors of the centers, representatives of the patricians and unions in education. Five teams of men were formed to join the following topics: co-existence, languages, modification, evaluation, and the autonomy of the schools. In these groups there were 40 experts and professionals in different sensibilities, and in each group they had three or four jobs. After this favour was done, the occasion was given to all the agents and to the peoples, and after having grafted the contributions, the document was sent to the School Council. The school council agreed to a solution with the 70% support of the members. The Board of Education accepted almost all the proposals sent by the School Council (from 10 to 9.) And I'll tell you more: of the 21st contributions, 19 were fully accepted and another after a change had been introduced. With all these contributions, the Council of the Government accepted the document of the agreement, and therefore I repeat the priority of education has at first been the unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u9	Well, it would have been the privilege of education from the very first, Mr. Urkullu, but the sector isn't agreed, and once that agreement has been made, they've explained their opposition and expressed their concern. And they have also expressed their concern on what I have said to you about the agreement with whom you have made your acquaintance. He's not here today, Mr Alfonso Alonso, but I'll tell you his words. "Dice el señor Aronso, señor Urkullu, que objectivo es que el Gobierno, el suyo, neuncie al adoctrinimaento en las aulas Riore el ladron que todos son de condicion." And not only that: "Well, there's no need for it," he said. And my question is: Is that the model of your government? Is that what this agreement will bring? What kind of education does this government want to build? Wants to do it with those who want to impose central and Spanish views? Do we want the law to submit to Spain? I told you in the plenary of general policy, Mr Urkullu, you have decided to rule with the fourth..., fifth force of this country, and that means ruling from behind to the majority of the citizenry; and in this case, from behind to a large sector, which is that of education. You have decided to make strategic agreements with those who have a political project safeguarded by the Spanish State, which limits our powers, which does not comply with the law, dynamite the decisions of this Parliament and amputates our rights. I intend to value an agreement which we have obtained in this legislature, which your party and mine have obtained, together with the aid of Podemos. It's the agreement we've made on the Auto-gourge Committee, and it's not an isolated agreement: the wants and wants of this people are immediately collected, and we have here remarked that we need a different relationship with the state, always because it is a defensive state. And traveling companions are very important for that. For the question is this: Are we a people or aren't we? Are we cool or aren't we? And I always say: If you wish to make a way to hope for the future, which the mass of the people wills, there is a companion here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irriart, what's the starting-point? The unit for education. Where is the substitute for the unit of education? School Council. In the High School Council, members of the family associations, teachers, directors of the centers, representatives of the patricians and unions in education. I told you the school council agreed to a lesson and I repeat it again, with the support of 70 percent of the members. The starting point is very strong, one for: We have agreed to two, five future challenges of education, and the 21 principles connected with it; three, the education-makers and experts, we have grafted 60 contributions; and four, they are agreed to agree with the 122 proposals of the legislative teams. Education, yes, is a popular challenge, and we have a strong claim to reach it, a proposal of vast protection from the High School Council, protected by 70%. It's the way we're going to go. We're gonna go back to it. Our priority is clear: the modernization required by euscal education system to promote and to guarantee stability. We've made a big step here since September 25 last year. Now this MPs have to make an agreement. I've heard reviews, but I've heard reviews. these have been more concerned with the facts of the educational agreement than with the contents of the proceedings. Our aim, Mrs Iriarte, is to transfer to Parliament the consensus already reached with the educational world (more than 70% of the agreement at the Euskadi School Council). This marks the way forward: to add more agreements on education, to achieve here the consensus achieved with the experts and the School Council – including all networks. This is the priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, with Hiron together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president of the Basque Sessions." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in this round and round of days, time is spent to make an arrangement around the past. Lehendakari jauna, what is he willing to change in his Government's policies to get support for the Budgets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, six weeks ago – October 2nd – the Department of Finance and Economy presented the budget framework to your group. That meeting proves our willingness to make changes, because it was organized in advance of the Finance Council and the adoption of the draft Budgets. And you, Mr Martínez, personally know our willingness to receive proposals – you personally – while respecting a non-extrabudgetary negotiation, a negotiation with realism and a negotiation without future mortgages. Three principles set out from day one with absolute clarity. From there, everything is to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u17	Mr. President, it's true, we really know the frame, but what we want to know is, as I said before, what you have to move in your government. What would you like to move in your government's niceties? Not just moving a lot of millions in these budgets, but making a deal in your government's niceties. Mr. President, you know, RedMork has been selling smoke for a few weeks, and he shows up and over and over again, and tells me that it's the most social of social budgets. And it is plain this is not so, and I will give you three examples: One: you sell that increases the budget for equality between women and men. The reality is different. This is a bluff. Two: when the clouds of economic deceleration begin to amaze, this Budget, far from trying to anticipate and take care of employment, take care of SMEs and take care of our industry, will only serve to cover the millionaire losses of real black holes of the Basque Administration such as Sprilur, the Hydrocarbon Society or the logistics strategy. From the Naval, on the other hand, they don't even want to hear about it. And for the regions in crisis only 10 million. Three: youth. Plans and plans, the same as always. The same ones that according to last year's budgetary settlements did not execute, that this year repeat again without the slightest intention to execute, of 5 million for the entrepreneurship and return of the youth, budgeted in 2017, spent 0 euros. In 2018 exactly the same, and in 2019 they go the same way. The reality, lehendakari, is that you have not presented the most social Budgets, it is not true. Let me tell you something: as strange as it may seem, Basque citizenship does not believe that the salary of its high offices is social spending. Just as they are not working hard, in depth, looking for agreements with no one to carry out the Budgets. I believe that you have decided for months that you were interested in the extension, that you are not working to change any of your policies or those of your Government, and a weak government like yours, which wants to draw up budgets, should be meeting with the opposition day and day as well, on a continuous basis. But I'm telling you more, they're not only looking for the extension, they almost seem to be looking for a scapegoat to blame for the extension, and there I am giving you a warning, the Basque left we're not going to be. You know, I don't think it's too much of a social business, but I don't think you're doing enough work to find a deal, but I don't think you're going to change your politics. You're looking for the extension, because you've considered the extension's most useful to you, because you're looking for a turbanhead, but you're not going to be your left-handed euscal. There's still time, lehendakari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Martinez, because you said that time was passing and you ended up saying that there is still time. Eskerrik asko. Look, Mr. Martinez, I'm not going to remind you of the meetings that have been held with you. You know that we are working on the basis of the document you presented to the department, and you know that the additional spending capacity is 370 million and that more than half is committed to meeting the pay increase in the public service, or by the education agreements, or by the professional career of Osakidetza, objectives that I believe you share. You know the positive progress of our project, the 2019 project, Mr Martínez. Progress in the staff chapter, which is growing by 4.9%; in self-investment, which is growing by 7.4%; in innovation, by 6.5%; in education, which is growing by 4.5%; in health, by 3.3%; in social policies, which account for 77.9% of the budget. This is a social budget, Mr Martínez, it is the most social budget you know, and you know it. The Budget can be discussed and changed, of course, but taking charge of reality, and I only ask you for the same measuring rod that you have used with the General Budgets of the State. I ask you to take the same turn here, you, the same turn you have taken there, assuming the objectives of deficit and debt, assuming the priority of social objectives, support for employment, investment and commitments in public policies. You know that this country grows, creates jobs, advances in equal opportunities and social guarantees. Of course we can improve; in fact, this budget is better than the previous one. You must know, however, that the frontal blockade of the budget means wasting the opportunity for society as a whole. We have resources to increase public spending, social policies and investment. Blocking the budget is losing an opportunity to create more and better jobs, to ensure better public services and to care for those who need it most. Look, Mr Martínez, if you apply the criteria of budgetary rigour and social priority that you have assumed in Madrid, the agreement here is possible, Mr Martínez. The Government remains open to the agreement and you know it, I reiterate it. The agreement with the past is possible, Mr Martínnez, if you propose the negotiation with the previous one. We are prepared to make changes in budgets if you propose changes that can be made in previews. And the agreement about the past is possible if you apply the criteria you accepted here in Madrid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, Alexia Castelo de sa Euscala Sozia, a member of the staff of the Socialists to the Chief of Work and Justice, the balance of the Basque Service." Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Egun on guztioi, good morning to everyone and everyone. Madam Counsellor, you have been able to hear me from this rostrum to say that violence against women in its various forms seriously violates their dignity, their physical and moral integrity, which constitutes a serious violation of human rights. I know that I agree with you that violence against women is one of the most unbearable scourges of our society. Violence that has its roots in the structural situation of inequality suffered by women in the different spheres of their lives. That is why we advocate that gender-based violence must be addressed from policies of full equality, because only from this full equality can both women and men develop their capacities and make their decisions without limitations imposed by gender stereotypes. We have a long way to go, because there are still deep-rooted, machistic behaviors that provoke incessant episodes of violence with the worst consequences. And there are other kinds of attitudes, which in principle may seem banal – especially if they are practiced by young people – but which can become clearly violent acts. I am aware that the Basque Government has been receptive to reintegration measures for persons who have been involved in criminal law. As early as 1990, the Reintegration Assistance Service was established, which is the predecessor of the current Basque Penis Management Service. A service that was consolidated in the hands of the agreements signed in 2011 between the Ministry of the Interior and the Government of the lehendakari Patxi López, being then Councillor of Justice and Public Administration Idoia Mendia. These agreements have made it possible for the Basque Autonomous Community to be the only one in the whole State that manages alternative measures to imprisonment. One of the programs that stand out within this Basque Penis Management Service for the methodology they employ and the results they offer is the so-called Gakoa program, aimed at the re-education and rehabilitation of men convicted of gender-based violence. The objective of the Gakoa programme is to preserve the physical and psychological integrity of women victims of gender-based violence. An initiative that addresses a phenomenon that is complex, that can even create and sometimes creates rejection in part of society by considering the abuser as a person who should be exclusively repulsed and condemned. However, I believe that all efforts made by the Administration to rehabilitate and reintegrate victims should be accepted and valued. The Gakoa programme has been implemented – we know – for 10 years. The references we find of this programme from the memories of the Basque Penis Management Service and from the reports of the High Court of Justice are highly positive, and I know that you, from your department, have wanted to verify and ratify this data. To this end, you have commissioned the Basque Institute of Criminology to prepare an evaluation of the Gakoa programme, the results of which you will present in a few open days next week. Days in which a wide debate and presentation on gender-based violence and measures to prevent and re-educate male victims will also be offered. That is why, Madam Councillor, I would like to see your department's assessment of this Gakoa programme before this plenary today. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mrs Castelo, I believe that we all agree with you on the seriousness of violence against women for our society. We also agree that the best way to end these violent and antisocial behaviors is to rehabilitate and re-educate the victims. We place at the centre of our actions the victim, his safety and integrity; for this we have various services and programmes aimed at the victims, but also from the perspective of the victim it is important that we treat the victim, trying to correct his/her attitude, become aware of his/her responsibility in the crime and modify and eradicate his/her behaviour. To end this type of violence, it is necessary to educate and prevent, rehabilitate and prevent recidivism. The Gakoa programme has had that mission, has been operating for more than 10 years, and since 2014 it has been part of the Basque Penis Management Service, as Mrs Castelo has pointed out. The target group is very specific: it is men who are convicted of crimes of violence against women for less than two years and who have no prior history; persons who are suspended by a judge through a favourable report and on condition that they comply with the individualized programme established. This plan applies between year and half and two years. The aim is to change attitudes and behaviour towards women and to prevent the commission of future crimes, i.e. that there are no new victims. The programme proposes more ambitious goals, such as for those who commit crimes of violence against women to exceed their initial goals, integrate into gender equality training plans and end up acting as agents to change the macho attitudes of other men in their environment. As you, Mrs Castelo, have said, we have commissioned an external evaluation of the programme in order to know scientifically the extent of the results, especially as regards recidivism in the men who have completed the process. I will gladly provide you with some very significant evaluation data confirming the positive impression that we had about Gakoa and that we shared with other bodies. The evaluation prepared by Gemma Barona, Idoia Igartua and Auxkin Galarraga, of the Basque Institute of Criminology, analyzes data between 2006 and 2016, divided into two periods: between 2006 and 2010 148 files were analyzed, resulting in a percentage of new complaints for gender-based violence of 14,9 %; over the period 2011-2016, 278 files were analysed, with a recidivism rate of 8,27 %. For some time I cannot give you any more figures at this time, but I believe that the simple fact of this positive development of non-recidivism is a fact that allows us to take an optimistic attitude towards the Gakoa programme. To further analyse intervention with men convicted of gender-based violence, exchange good practices and to enable the debate on this reality we have organized on 12 and 13 November a days in which we will present this program and the evaluation of its intervention, and in which we will also have the presence of prestigious representatives of the judiciary, prosecutor's office and other professionals who are related in the intervention with victims. I am sure that they will be a success, as will the programme in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u24	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "To ask the president, the members of the Basque Group, Borja Sémper Passalski, a member of the Pional Group, about the Heren day program." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u25	Egun on guztioi, counselors and counselors, Mr lehendakari. The Heregun didactic unit, which is a didactic unit designed by the Basque Government so that our boys and girls between the ages of 15 and 18 learn about the recent history of Euskadi of violence and also in theory of ETA terrorism, as you know, has aroused numerous criticisms. He has aroused criticism in academic sectors, in university professors, in historians, he has aroused criticism in parliamentary groups, at least in two, even among his partner in government, and about twenty associations of victims of terrorism have shown their pain, their discomfort for the content of this didactic unit. Because of this rejection, this social and political upheaval that you have generated, this serene and objective concern – which is also reasonable – that you have awakened, you have publicly expressed your willingness to change it or to be open to its modification. We want to ask you what you are willing to change from the Heregun teaching unit, Mr. lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u26	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Semper, we are in the process of contributing to what is the proposal of the teaching unit; therefore, I am not going to tell you what I am willing to change until I know all the contributions. And my assessment is that we all – all – have much to improve. My conviction is that we must do it together. And do it with greater discretion, without stridence. We have will, we have forums and we have time to do it. How can it be improved? In everything that helps bring positions closer together. And there are only two limits: one, the proposed project does not accept any form of legitimization of ETA terrorism or any other violence; and two, it cannot omit or conceal any fact which in these 60 years has resulted in a serious attack on human rights and the right to life. From these premises is built the project of didactic unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u29	What is happening, Mr Lehendakari, is that to approach positions, as you ask, we cannot give up the truth. I understand that we live in confusing times, times of post-truth. What happens is that in order to get closer to each other, we cannot be asked to give up what is objective, raw and clear. Look, in that document, in that didactic unit, uniquely in the audiovisual part, ETA is given a ball, ETA is justified. There are testimonies that appear in that didactic unit – which I insist, and this is very relevant – that are intended for children. between 15 and 18 years of age who have not had the personal life experience of having known the ravages that ETA has caused, that they will receive in their schools, in their ikastolas, in their schools, false, lying and complacent information with terrorism. Look, in that didactic unit there is not a single testimony that justifies or relativizes Francoism, as it is natural. There is not a single testimony that justifies or relativizes the terrorism of the LAG, as is natural. There is not a single testimony that justifies torture, as it is natural. There are testimonies that justify terrorism. There are testimonies that support the history of ETA as a necessary evil that we had to endure because we were immersed in a conflict. That's what our boys and girls are going to see at school. 15 and 18-year-olds who did not experience terrorism, that their fundamental reference to what we have suffered in Euskadi will be what they teach you at school, Mr Lehendakari. My children, who go to public school – and forgive me for the personal reference – if they see those videos they're going to think that their father had a share of responsibility that they wanted to kill him. This is unacceptable. It is that on the testimonies that justify and that endorse ETA the criticisms are multiple. There are criticisms that go to the omission of relevant testimonies, which give a very real picture of what we have suffered in Euskadi. There are criticisms that also appeal to this kind of totum revolution But the fundamental problem is that there are people who are asked in those videos, to an ex-director of Sortu or Bildu: "You, what self-criticism are you willing to do?". And he says, in this alembic and unctuous rhetoric to which the abertzale left has accustomed us: "I am willing to make a self-criticism that consists in that when we suffered we were not sensitive enough to what others suffered." This is unacceptable. Is this the moral, ethical level we want you to teach our kids our school? Lord Lehendakari, with all serenity, change this didactic unit, modify it. It is unacceptable and it is a shame; and, above all, it is worrying, because our children – I insist –, those who have not experienced terrorism, who fortunately have not had to live that Euskadi, cannot believe that what happened here was everyone's fault and that we share responsibility in an aliquotious part. And that, well, this taking on responsibilities is very relative ("If the one in front assumes it, so do I"), as if we all had the same responsibility. It's not fair.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u30	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Semper, I repeat to you: you can improve and we are at the moment to do so, the time to gather contributions, to analyze the whole of the teaching unit, not just the videos, among which you also participated, Mr Semper. The time to listen to the authors, the authors, of the didactic unit. From there comes the time of contrast with a pilot experience, which we will evaluate, and we will improve the program before its implementation. We're just about to examine the whole of "The Day," Mr. Sémper, when we're about to listen to the authors, we're within the time to contribute. After all the contrasts, we'll make a first test, and then we'll set it up. We're only in time to make contributions and improvements. And we don't start from scratch, Mr. Semper. For seven years 14,000 young people have heard in the classroom the delegitimizing testimony of ETA terrorism and violence with the Adi Adian program. In addition, 5,000 young people have visited Memoria Plaza, listening to the testimony of victims of terrorism and violence. Adi Adian from the ethical perspective and Herenegun from the historical perspective are complementary, they share the same objective of delegitimizing terrorism and violence. I have approached this process with patience, temperance, perspective, transparency and containment, and also with receptivity towards contributions. And I accept that the material can be improved. Now, everything has a limit. I would like to say that I do not accept in any way that the Basque Government, the General Secretariat for Human Rights, Co-operation and Co-operation, the Gogora Institute, the Department of Education and the experts who have worked on this material, should be accused of seeking to legitimize or launder ETA terrorism. That's radically false. It's just the opposite. And I read him the proposal for the conclusion of the teaching material, which I hope he has read, that of the teaching material, and he says: "All the worst that has happened to us in 60 years has to do with two keys; one, not having respected human rights, believing that the use of violence was lawful, thinking that the defence of an idea had more value than human dignity, life and human rights; and two, not having respected pluralism, not accepting or respecting who is different or thinking in another way and feeling master of all truth (dogmatism)." No legitimizing or bleaching. On the contrary, delegitimize. Everything has a limit and you have gone too far with your accusations and judgments of intent, Mr Semper. You said for Alsasua's call: "If anything has to do politics is to calm the moods and cool the environment, and not to ignite the moods." We're moving towards coexistence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interadectation, Euke Arana Varas, together with the members of the Podemos, with respect to the President, to the machiistious violence and the elderly women." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u33	Good morning, Mr President, madam, members of the legislature. This interpellation arises from the daily concern of so many people, especially so many women, for the increasing number of serious, very serious episodes of sexist violence. This concern is based on objective and real data that for years, decades and even centuries were invisible or silenced. From Elkarrekin We can, once again, echo that concern and bring it here, because we understand that it is a political issue of the highest priority for coexistence, for freedom, equality and justice of 100% of citizens. In the day-to-day life of this Parliament, we bring feminist policies to all plenary agendas, committees and presentations. Feminist policies and Machist violence are paving the way for taking their priority on the political agenda of Euskadi, and this is fundamentally due, as I have said many times, to the long history of work – often anonymous and silent – of so many women that in this Parliament, in the academy, in the streets, in the trade unions, in all Basque institutions have been working with insistence and perseverance so that half of the citizens can exercise this, citizenship. From Elkarrekin We have introduced 45 specific initiatives of Machist violence, to which we have to add all the specific initiatives for equality and also all those parliamentary processes in which we have incorporated through concrete proposals the need and demand that the gender perspective be intrinsic to any public policy. All of us, from the role we each have, must push forward all the measures that are necessary to redouble our efforts. We want a Parliament and a Government to give clear, unambiguous signals, beyond statements, headlines, opportunistic announcements or condemnation reactions when feminicides occur. As far as Machist violence is concerned, according to data from different institutions, we are witnessing a steady and progressive increase in the number of complaints, as stated by the General Council of the Judiciary, the Department of Security and the Office of the Prosecutor. The number of complaints of gender-based violence per partner or ex-partner has increased, and the number of complaints of violence by unknown persons has also increased. Without going further, yesterday we echoed the crime balance of the Ministry of the Interior, which collects data from all state and autonomous police, and in Euskadi the aggressions sexual penetration has grown by 40% between January and September. The remaining offences related to sexual freedom have also increased a 32,3%. The report highlights the sharp increase in crimes against sexual freedom, since in addition to aggression and abuse, the figure is 494 (33.5% more than last year). And the number of complaints is increasing despite the fact that the information systems need to be reviewed, as agreed by this Parliament at the initiative of our group, since in the Department of Security the registration of complaints of sexist violence is dispersed under different concepts, so there is a sub-registration of the phenomenon. And in the face of this, what are you doing? Automatic pilot. The increase in complaints can be explained by a greater social awareness and because we are becoming increasingly clear that it is not and that it is only; in this case we welcome the increase in complaints. We recognize all the progress made, that we owe it first and foremost to the history of struggle, demands and proposals of the feminist and women's movement. We also recognize that some policies have been important to raise awareness and visibility; however, Basque institutions need to be prepared not only to raise awareness and awareness – which is very good – but also to make a comprehensive intervention that ensures prevention, early detention, care, protection and reparation. We want a feminist Euskadi, free of sexist violence, and we are convinced that the best strategy for the prevention of violence is to move towards greater equality of opportunity and results in absolutely all areas of life. Machist violence is practised against women throughout all their lives, and at different ages it is given differently. In Euskadi, according to official data, of the 41 women killed between 2002 and 2017, 30.95% were over 50 years old; however, statistics tell us that older women are the least reported. Older women are in a situation of greater vulnerability to carry out life projects free of all kinds of violence. Being a woman and older person is a high risk factor for abuse and ill-treatment, but in addition, it is necessary to add to this sexist violence. Older women have daily lives that are the result of accumulating all the inequalities they have experienced throughout their lives, decades of gender roles imposed, years of invisible and unrecognized work in households, the sexual division of labour, the precariousness of women's employment, with a high percentage of reduced hours, part-time contracts in generally worse paid sectors, the precariousness of the care sector – a highly feminized sector – and, in some cases, life stories and present marked by sexist violence in the home. They are women, many, who have suffered and been abused for years, women who have remained silent. We're talking about older, invisible women. There are few data and protocols on gender-based violence in older women. Many of them have been trapped for decades in mistreatment, some without being conscious and without the possibility of rehabilitating their lives. In the few reports we have found that older women are more invisible and complain less about many causes. First of all, because society itself, surely, still does not recognize that older women also suffer macho violence at home, in the streets, in the residences, in the dances in Benidorm or in the parks and squares of our villages. No, they don't appear in the imaginary about sexist violence. In addition, some for years remained silent for their children, for what they will say, for what it is necessary to endure, and then they continue silent for their grandchildren, for not to disgust, because at this point... Because they have no economic resources of their own, because it was up to them to live a few years in which the Machist violence was naturalized and justified. It was up to them to grow up subject to gender mandates and to an openly patriarchal society without the possibility of least criticism. And many do not denounce it because it has to do with beliefs, knowledge of a culture and a generation that influences how they respond to situations of abuse. That's why the social and personal circumstances of many older women make them a group with a higher risk of machist violence and also greater difficulty in getting out of it. In this context, Mr Urkullu, what specific measures are planned to prevent and protect all forms of sexist violence affecting older women?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, I share the idea that older women can be in a situation of greater vulnerability in general terms. And also in relation to the possibility of carrying out a free of all kinds of violence. That being the case, and reiterating the relevance of the subject, it will allow me to be precise about the figure it contains in its inquiry. It uses the figure of 31,58 % for the period 2002 to 2015. He spoke after 30.95 to show that this problem has a higher incidence among women over 58 years of age. I would remind you, however, that women over the age of 58 represent more than 30% of the total in our society; therefore, from this data it is not deduced that this problem has a special impact on older women. Yes, as I told you at first, they may be in a situation of greater vulnerability. In any case, in the problem of macho violence there are no ages to act on. All women, as old as they are, must receive all care and support. And as for older women, it is true that in some cases we imagine an experience of socialization in a social, political and cultural context very different from the current one. However, this cannot lead us to conclude that all older women may require special intervention. This could involve a revictimization of older women and a return to unwanted stereotypes. On the contrary, I believe that their processes of empowerment under adverse conditions are a source of learning for future generations, and that is why we are clear that the empowerment of older women is fundamental to the prevention of violence, an idea in which I will stop later. You talk to me about measures, and you will allow me to talk about realities first; first, because the rejection of violence against women, in its different forms and manifestations, is growing in all areas. Secondly, because social recognition has been extended that the teaching of equality is key to prevention. Thirdly, because attention to this reality has progressively incorporated normative, technical and social improvements, implementing the necessary measures to prevent and comprehensively care for all victims until their full recovery, including, of course, older women. Let us therefore recognize the efforts made and the measures taken, which does not prevent us from recognizing that women, young and old, continue to suffer this violation of human rights. The problem is relevant, but so are the identified objectives that have been adopted to address it. And I refer to the VII Equality Plan, and I remind you that its objectives include strengthening and consolidating the prevention of violence against women, increasing the early detection of violence against women, increasing the number of women victims of all kinds of violence who come to or access services and resources early, with particular attention to those for which they are less accessible, and improving the accessibility and availability of the care system, including different variables. Among these variables is age, so the objective of improving the accessibility of the care system for older persons is already covered by the current Equality Plan. In addition to the aid, the plan points to the objective you mentioned of awareness and prevention. The Equality of Women and Men Act 2005, in articles 52 and 53 of the Act, states that "The Basque public administrations, within their competence and in a coordinated manner, shall carry out campaigns to raise awareness and prevent violence against women", and "The competent bodies in the field of training of public administration personnel, in collaboration with Emakunde, shall implement training programmes tailored to the needs of the various professionals involved in violence against women". This is what the law says. This year the offering is 30 years old, Mrs. Arana, and has been the pusher of equality. Thanks to the work we've done for the past few years, we have a number of eucalyptus tools available today. the architecture of the equality police has been built, we have a law, we have an equality plan, the co-ordination of the institutions is working, and all the people support it. The course we've made so far shows us the direction: the equality between women and men must be retained as a strategic goal in the country. The violence problem with woman is no age. All women, young and mature, must support us, support and support us. In Euskadi, therefore, we have an architecture to promote equality. We are talking about awareness-raising and prevention, because all programmes for equality, change of values, autonomy, empowerment of women and social awareness become tools to prevent violence against women. The Nahiko, Beldur Barik, Gizonduz programmes, the awareness campaigns of 8 March and 25 November are examples that take into account the diversity of women, including the elderly. In the area of personnel training, we have the Jabetuz training programme, which is aimed at professionals who care for victims of violence against women. The aim is to promote a common consensus perspective that contributes to homogenizing the criteria of professional intervention, taking the empowerment of women as the main axis of the training of the professionals. We also have a specific and very comprehensive procedure for the prevention and detection of physical and economic ill-treatment of older persons. I am talking about the current realities of a public administration committed to equality. I have mentioned empowerment before, and it is one of the main axes of the VII Equality Plan, it is one of the fundamental tools to prevent violence against women, an empowerment that occurs especially in the case of older women at the personal level. They acquire or strengthen their capacities, strategies and protagonists. In this way they achieve an autonomous life and can participate in terms of equal access to resources, recognition and decision-making in personal and social life. This is a reality that has been analyzed in depth by Emakunde. The study entitled "The autonomy of older women in the Basque Country and their contribution to the empowerment processes" reveals that one in four women over 65 years of age has started a new activity in their current status as an older person. This shows an interest and a willingness to continue to be active individually and socially. So, Mrs. Arana, we don't start from scratch. Nor with the associative fabric: we allocate more than €600,000 per year to women's associations to work for the empowerment and prevention of violence. The women's associations represented in the Advisory Committee, the dialogue body in Emakunde, decided to deepen their knowledge of the issues of interest to older women, given their crucial importance. More realities: since 2013 annual days organized between Emakunde and the associations have been held. Emakunde supports projects that contribute to the empowerment of women and the prevention of violence through two grant lines targeted at women's associations annually. Women's associations were doing commendable work, as well as local empowerment schools, and we could not, therefore, properly thank them for their contribution. My speech, Mrs Arana, shows that Emakunde, women's associations and the Basque Government as a whole take into account the reality of older women. The problem certainly persists, but we will only be able to overcome it if we continue to advance and strengthen the measures that Emakunde, the Government departments, the rest of the institutions and the associations themselves are proposing, implementing, analysing, evaluating and improving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u37	What I wanted to say to you, Mr Urkullu – which I have also misexplained myself to you – is that they are women who do not have the information and resources necessary and sufficient to denounce. Making specific policies for older women is not about revictimizing them; revictimizing them is when an institution does not provide them with the resources to get out of violence. Women are diverse and there are particular phenomena by age; intervention is not the same for a six-year-old girl as for a 60-year-old woman. We are talking about adapted responses, not revictimizing, and the report you referred to from Emakunde is from 2012; a bit obsolete, don't you think? Once again we hear a retahíla of plans, programs, with fantasy names that can fill headlines and pages. You in the area of equality policies and machist violence offer simple solutions to complex problems, you want to cover the sun with a finger, in view of the treatment or, rather, the omission of equality and the eradication of machist violence in your government. From Elkarrekin We believe that this systematic violation of the rights of half the population does not yet have its rightful priority. You continue, as I have told you many times, with the autopilot. Look, Mr Urkullu, let's talk about budgets. We again find that the Government's discourse and the expressions of priority do not correspond to the resources allocated to further progress towards equality between women and men. When the Budgets are analysed, we continue to think that there is much left for them to be budgets where the priority is to eradicate the inequalities and machista violence that we women suffer. And appearance after appearance in the Committee on Finance and Budgets we find that the highest authorities of the Government have the responsibility to acquire more training on what it is to do public policy with a focus on human rights and gender perspective. Otherwise, the answers are not justified. You are talking about increasing the Equality Budgets – a large holder – due to the inclusion of items for conciliation. Very interesting, Mr Urkullu. And, if we look at it in more detail, we see that these items are of help that because of their design have a negative effect on women – totally surprised. It is the aid for the conciliation of Mrs Artolazabal, which, in your opinion, increases the wage gap. Hallucinated. In the reports accompanying the draft Budgets, reports that the Government itself is preparing, it is stated in 2018 and this same year that these measures for conciliation cause a perverse effect on the measures to women. I'm not saying it, the report says it. According to the report, "It is a finding that women are the ones who are the main beneficiaries of these measures and are therefore the ones who see their opportunities in the workplace being undermined, further deepening the wage gap between women and men". And the same department includes a game to promote co-responsibility, which you fill with headlines, but you have no decree to regulate it – according to Mrs Artolazabal, we could have it in 2019. So the budgets for equality are inflated by aid which you yourselves call perverse or by aid which is not regulated and, therefore, will not be applied. And I'll tell you more. We do not share that vision of equality policies that you want to promote based on economic aid for every woman to seek her life as she can. Feminist policies are far more than individual aid. So we have doubts about this government's commitment to equality, to a fairer, more egalitarian society and free of machist violence. And we question all the media announcements, even more so when we see, as I have already said, matches that increase the wage gap as relevant to equality, or matches that are not going to be executed because there is no decree. Curious at least, Mr. Urkullu. Inequality and macho violence are two sides of the same coin. If they do not invest in equality, there is no way forward in the eradication of sexist violence. For older women, the only specific thing we have found, as you have said, for the prevention and protection of sexist violence is a proposal for action of the VII Plan, which talks about investigating. We think it is very positive that research should be carried out, but for a plan that seeks to guide four-year policies, do you think this is enough? Undoubtedly, we must redouble... well, we must triple our efforts, because the data we have reveal an invisible reality in which we must invest urgently. And before I finish, I want to say that despite all the difficulties I mentioned in the first intervention that older women had and have to get out of the violence, all my gratitude to them, because they were neither passive women. They did not resign or resign. They did not conform or conform. And there's nothing more to see about the mobilizations of the pensioners and March 8th. These women, with different strategies, managed to transmit to the next generation of women knowledge, learning and longing for greater freedom, greater autonomy and greater equality and justice. They are a fundamental link in the history of the feminist movement, a link that had to live in dark times and absolutely hostile to women. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, with all due respect, it seems to me that you have come to talk about anything but what is the question of interpellation (what specific measures are planned to intervene on all forms of macho violence affecting older women). I explained it to him in the first intervention. You refer to the 2012 report and have used for the justification of the question in the inquiry the period 2002-2015. You tell me if it's not obsolete. Look, Euskadi is implementing the VII Equality Plan. This country has an experience and a trajectory, this country has shown a commitment and we bet on continuous improvement. That's right, for you nothing is ever enough, Mrs. Arana. However, I have never heard you propose a model that has been shown to be more effective or better than the model that has been developed here for 30 years. And it has developed between institutions, Emakunde and women's associations. I don't know where you are. That does not mean that we should not improve, Mrs Arana, of course we do. We need to move forward and we will continue to do so in line with the most advanced international policies. We will continue to improve equality policies in all areas: governance, change of values, autonomy and empowerment of women, prevention, assistance and social awareness. This constant and persevering work, which marks the Emakunde home, is the most efficient way to prevent and eradicate this intolerable violation of human rights. We will also continue to act in the short term, articulating measures and resources for the protection and comprehensive care of victims. The Government as a whole, like all Basque institutions, has made a commitment to these objectives. Ongoing coordination, training, awareness-raising and evaluation are essential tools to address the phenomenon of violence against women and the existing inequality in our society. Evaluating is necessary to improve. One example: the analysis of the database of care for women served in the Government's resources over the last three years – currently, in the last three years, not 2012, in the last three years – shows that the main gateway for older women to resources is through primary health care. In this regard, the Osakidetza action protocol represents an advance in the prevention and detection of violence in older women. Another example. In the participatory process of drafting the VII Equality Plan, women's associations – I don't know where you are – took the decision to make their contributions to the "Lifes free of violence against women" axis, and highlighted the omission of care, especially in the case of older women, an initiative under the VII Equality Plan. And one last example, Mrs. Arana. Emakunde is conducting an evaluation for the improvement of services offered to women victims of violence, including older women, by participating in a comprehensive programme on essential services for victims together with several United Nations agencies. And this is what Emakunde is doing, Mrs. Arana. They are examples of a country committed to equality, which acts, evaluates and strengthens to improve. We have been doing so and we will continue to do so, because all women throughout their lives must receive all the attention, help and solidarity against all sexist violence. Mrs Arana, if you are satisfied with a retahíla of phrases made and common places that you always use, we as the Government and Emakunde will continue to work to continue to lead in the world of violence against women work for the prevention and also the eradication of violence against women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, made by the congressman of the Unai Uruzuno Goldst Group to the president, about the social rupture which the demand for more self-portraits can bring."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. In Argentina, in the Mar del Plata, you've met the Basque community a few days ago. There was also a delegation of the Parliament. And it was nice before your speech how the Basques of Argentina took you, and the older ones were moved, one gave you such a long hug. For them, beyond your own person, you are a president, a symbol. Most of the friends in the Basque community are either children of failure or frustration, wars, dictatorships, poverty, fled from failure and frustration, or their descendants. This is why the President is moved when he is among them, because the President is a great achievement for them, because they see him thus, and of course the achievement of self-generacy is for them, although most of them are independent. And you, in Argentina, said in front of the Basque community that there would be a social rupture. I'll ask you the other way: Is not wanting any more self-portraits gonna be a social break?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Aguirre, I don't know what people think what they think about, what their ideology is, but I don't dare say what they think. And anyway, you were there, and there were others like you. There had been a broad and broad news, and there were also Prietus and Barrio. And you, like them, heard what I said and in what context I said in my first involvement and even in the turn of the questions. And no. No, Mrs. Aguirre. It's one thing to ask for more self-portraits and social break-up. One has nothing to do with the other. So we're working on this parliament. We're working to ask for larger self-portraits and, even, to avoid social breakthroughs. That, I think, is the purpose of the company, and I repeat again: we have a real chance to attain this end, and we deal in it, and I also act in it personally, and what I have said must be placed in its context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u45	I was there, as I said, and that's how I heard you. If our ancestors hadn't dreamed of a free country and hadn't done hard for it, you wouldn't have been the president. You wouldn't have been president, because there wouldn't be a president. It is therefore great, because you are the symbol of the inheritance of our ancestors. Those who fled to America went to seek a better life, and we who live here want a better life. Hence a majority of this people is at the present moment desirous of a new political state to live better. Do you think that will bring a social break, Mr. President? Are we going to decide our pensions here, or how many of them should be here? Will there be a social rupture? If we decide here what education we want for our children, then there will be a social rupture? Mr. Urkullu, do you think the author's power will cause a rupture? Did the two biggest forces in this country come up with a social break? I dare say, Mr. Urkullu: The desire of more auto-generacy, the desire of an equal relation to the state, has united a great part of this people. Because here we all want to live better: pensioners, women... And if we want greater self-government it's for that, because with Spain we're not going anywhere, because it's an undemocratic country that doesn't move forward. Worse still, back off. That is what causes social fracture, not the longing for greater self-government. Because to aspire to have an equal relationship with the Spanish State is to aspire to live better. That's not a fracture, Mr. Urkullu. That's exactly what unites us. We don't want a breakup. Nobody wants social breakthroughs. The fracture arises from having an unjust trial to defend peace, and by entering into prison the politicians. That's the breakup. It's a fracture not to fill in a state agreed on 40 years ago. I don't know when you'll be going back to Argentina with your next president, but I'd like you not to go there empty-handed. You said you would defend my father's house in Mar del Plata. Let us defend our father and mother's house together, that we may defend ourselves with our hands, with our arms, but above all with our soul. We are a people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a big deal. Yes, it's important, and it's my responsibility to place a society that can be as united as possible on the way to its development, and to help it. My purpose agrees with the crew and the strength of auto-gourning or auto-organization is to penetrate and increase, and we must strive to make the agreement that we have to accomplish, to penetrate, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase. I'll repeat what I said in Argentina: "To spread the covenant is the key; in short, we act according to the basic principles of our co-existence which must last. A wider agreement will establish a new treaty. The object of this new stage is to acknowledge that we are a nation whose historical will is self-generacy and determination, and to take the contract as a rule of almost a Constitution. Upon this foundation, a new political state of Euskade must arise with ambition and vigour to respond to the wants of a new generation." This is what I said. "Hasta aqui lo que en presencia también ditiono i ibras y eros representantes de este Parlamento en mi intervención en Argentina." I guess you're okay with what I said. And from here on, a question raised the situation of Catalonia – of Catalonia – and I said that we share the same national reality supported by a majority social will. I also recalled the differences: historical evolution, 140 years of Concert, the first additional provision of the Spanish Constitution on historical rights and the unique provision of the Gernika Statute on the rights of the territories of the Basque people, the influence of terrorism and violence and the way to normalize coexistence. In that context I referred to the need for a political response, I mentioned the Clarity Directive in Europe, the assumption of plurinational reality in the State, and finally I said that I am concerned about the risk of social fracture. I conveyed the same concern to President Puigdemont, along with the fear of the loss of reference of the institutions of self-government. I did it in my writings from September 20th of last year to October 27th of last year. The risk of social fracture is not linked to the claim of greater self-government. Self-government is a factor of social cohesion and must be a factor of social cohesion. The risk of social fracture is linked to contempt, at the expense of contempt or neglect of the need to achieve the greatest possible consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interregation, Myria Llanos Gómez Espulian Groups of Laws for Economics, and the Chief of the Sub-States, 4th Bar 4th of Bilbo. 'about the line.' Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Well, as we stated in the letter of inquiry, on April 12, 2018 this House unanimously reached an agreement in which the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Transport Consortium were urged to formulate in 2018 the informative study of line 4 of the Bilbao Metropolitan Railway, guaranteeing a participatory process, and to collect for the next year's budget, for the 2019 financial year, an economic appropriation sufficient for the elaboration of the constructive project of the Moyua-Rekalde section. More than six months have passed since that agreement. We wanted to question you earlier, before the 2019 Budgets were presented, but it could not have been, Madam Counsellor, because you preferred Japan to this House; but, well, I will do it today. We wanted to know whether and how the Basque Government had complied with the agreement that this House adopted unanimously from all groups, both in terms of the information study and the constructive project. Or to know, or rather to see, whether you, Madam Councillor, whether you, gentlemen of the Government, are indifferent to what this Parliament approves; whether you bring them to the pair in paladin. My partner, Mrs López de Ocariz, asked you the other day about the stop that was suffering from the high-speed train, a stop recognized by you and provoked by the arrival of the Socialist Party's Spanish government, an arrival that you favored. But you, counselor, pointed out to my partner that this work, come on, that the stoppage was not from now on, that it was a huge delay, and said that the Spanish State had very little intention of doing it. In the face of these claims, do you know what Rekalde's neighbors would say, counselor? Well, they'd say "Manda..." I am not going to say the phrase that Mr Trillo said, although it is perfectly applicable in this case. But 'commands benoles': the Basque Government and you, Madam Councillor, talking about delaying an infrastructure and talking about intention. Well, let's just say, how long have Rekalde's neighbors been waiting for line 4 of the subway? How much will has your Government, the Basque Government, shown to push this work forward? Well, I answer him: everything and nothing. They have been waiting all the time in the world, and the will this Government has shown is nothing, nothing. And I know that the schedule I've already set out on many occasions, but it's important to repeat it so that you realize how late this line is and how long it's been waiting. Neighbors wanted Line 3 to reach Rekalde, but they were told no. In 2008, the preliminary route of this line 4 between Moyua and Rekalde was made public. And if you're going to go back to the previous government project, Mr. Patxi López's, then more, then more time. It was said that in 2012 the works would start, that in 2016 they would be finished. Well, well, Rekalde's neighbors have been waiting more than 25 years for the subway to arrive and more than 10 years after that route was made public. And they're still the same as at first, with nothing. And worse, seeing how year after year they are not a priority for the government of the Basque Nationalist Party. And it is not something they say or it is something I say, which is not a priority, no, it is something you have said, you have made it clear in this House that it is not a priority. In 2014 you said, that line 4 was not a priority. By the mouth of Mrs Oregi, who is not here today and who was the advisor to the branch, she said that neither for 2015 nor 2016 nor for the next nor for the next. So, where are we? Well, as in 2008, no, worse than in 2008. First of all, because Rekalde's neighbors right now don't know if they're going to have a subway or not. They're not about to ask for deadlines anymore, are they? As to say when the work will start, what the deadlines will be, when it will be executed. No, no, if they don't even know if they're gonna have it... Because you, counselor, the other day, in the presentation of the budget, what did you say? She was very careful in her words – and I read the transcript textually –: "By 2019 there will be an informative study of all the needs, or take on public transport needs in Rekalde, Irala and the entire southern part of Bilbao." He didn't talk about the Moyua-Rekalde informational study, no. You talked about needs. Because then Mrs. Corcuera did speak directly about this section. He spoke directly of the Moyua-Rekalde stretch. But you in the second intervention again were – yes, with that prudence that characterizes you and that ambiguity so peculiar to the nationalists..., in that second one spoke again of the attention to Rekalde, Irala and all the neighborhoods of the south, but you did not at any time mention – at any time – the Moyua-Rekalde section. And he did, in our opinion, totally on purpose. And not only do I believe it, but also believe it by Rekalde's neighbors, who are outraged by his words the other day, who have sent the media a press release and announced mobilizations. That is why I ask you, Counsellor: is that information that you announced in the Budgets, that informational study, is it the informational study for the Moyua-Rekalde section or is it to rethink again what transport the Rekalde neighbors are going to have? Let us go on to say that in any case, Madam Counsellor, you have failed to fulfil the mandate of this House. Because this House agreed that this study had to be carried out in 2018. Because your party, the Basque Nationalist Party, voted in this House to urge your department to do the informative study this year. And I suppose I would vote with your consent, because we already know that for They always have to consult the department. Then why did they vote yes? So you don't want to be alone? To look good, but without any intention, because you weren't going to fulfill it? Or are you going to tell me that there hasn't been time to do it? I refer again to Mrs López de Ocariz's question about the "And Basque" stop. And you replied that the delay was in not carrying out the informational study and that between March and June Mr Rajoy's government could have done the informational study and that it had had more than enough time. That is, the central government had time and the Basque government did not. The central government can do the information study between March and June, and you can't do it between April and December. They're smarter. You acknowledge that the Spanish Government is smarter than the Basque Government, because I tell you, the initiative was approved in April. That is, by applying your own criteria that you told Mrs López de Ocariz, there has been time, there has been time. But no, for the Basque Government there seems to have been no time. And you pointed out – I repeat – that by 2019 you will be doing an informative study of everything that is going to be needed or that you will assume public transport needs in Rekalde, Irala and throughout the southern part of Bilbao. And I ask you again, counselor, what is this study? Think again? Think again what's the best transport for Rekalde? Use the FEVE pathways? To banish everything that has been analyzed so far, everything that has been reflected so far? And if I ask you one thing, counselor, don't ever do the post again. Don't ever re-publish all the works in your department. We already know that your department has a lot of works going on, and a lot of infrastructure going on, a lot, but I tell you what you have to do here is to tell us what your priority is. And if in that prioritization that the department has to make the neighbors of Rekalde, the neighbors of Irala, the neighbors of southern Bilbao, are in that priority or not, whether they are priorities or not. What are you going to do with the subway line 4? That's what I'm asking you. Don't repeat to me all the infrastructures there are for Bilbao and already by extension tell me all those of Euskadi. I ask you: next year, 2019, the informative study of the Moyua-Rekalde stretch and the constructive project are going to be a reality, yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u50	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u51	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Don't worry, because I'm not going to get mixed up in things the way you did. What I'll do is talk about that line and this transport. And as I said last Wednesday, and as you said yourself, what's important to us is what's important to us, after all, when we're always considering the best means of transport when we're talking about public transports, and when you're happy that this public transport is Ferrobic, that it's the best possible for all the residents in the South of Iranla and Bilbo. That's what the money is for, and that's what it's about. I commented on Wednesday, and I repeat it and you have read it very well. Information study of the best public transport, that if we are talking about that it is the competence of the Basque Government, that we are working with the Diputación Foral de Bizkaia, we understand or understand that it is railway, that it is the best possible rail transport with conditions and quality of metro, that it does not mean if it is red, green or yellow, but it has quality of service and enough frequency. Those are the premises we work with. After analysing the relevant information study for which it stated that there are 1,050,000 euros in the budget of studies and projects of ETS, of course, the project or sufficient constructive projects will be drawn up. Why are we talking about this informative study right now? What inputs On the one hand, the arrival and final solution of the arrival of the high-speed train to Bilbao, with an already agreed solution, and that means that at the Abando station the Ministry of Development will make the provisional approval and public information as agreed in March 2019, but there is already a solution that reaches Abando in a certain way. In addition, there is a railway line – and you know it well – of close proximity that gives service to the Left Margin, between Santurtzi and Abandon again, in Iberian width, and that also requires a modification or a new station in Abandon, and that also means that we have to consider it. There is a line in metric width between Basurto Hospital and Ariz, which runs in the environment in addition to Rekalde and Irala, and an imminent transfer is expected in accordance with the mandatory enforcement of the Constitutional Court's ruling. That too is something to consider. And there is another line, on which there is a permanent demand by the Basque Government for transfer, between Bilbao and La Concordia, and that also modifies that situation or, if not modified, at least obliges us to consider what service can be given there and integrate it into a general solution. And also the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan, developed by the Bilbao City Council itself. In that informative study, what should there be? We must take into account a multi-criteria analysis: as always, economic, social and environmental cost-effectiveness studies. And, above all, to analyze all the types of rail transport that exist, that give the best of services as public rail transport and – I want to insist – frequently and quality, that is the priority for all people who use public transport. And we have to select and solve that problem according to the best alternatives, so we take it to an informative study. It is true that when the previous information study was prepared – and then I will analyze it in detail – there were some conditions and unknowns that are now clear. Today it is clear how and when the arrival of the high-speed train to Abandonment, it is clear one of the transfers from the FEVE line and that conditions the definitive solution. Therefore, what we have to do is that complete informational study, and our commitment is to be able to bid it before the end of this year, for it to be executed in 2019. What have we done so far in this line? What have we done? On December 18, 2012 – and I am not going to go further, further back – the public information of the line 4 information study was requested. This informational study, moreover, had to be completed – and you will remember it perfectly – with the environmental impact assessment. In 2015 and 2016, the information study had to be readjusted, because the environmental requirements had undergone some changes, according to Law 21/2013, and the work required a readjustment and an update. And in October 2016 the drafting of the construction project of civil work for the Matiko-Moyua section began, and it had as its deadline July 2018. It is not completed because an extension of the deadline has been requested until December 2018. Why has this extension of time been requested? Well, in the development of the constructive project, of the elaboration of that constructive project, and as you certainly know, there has been a modification of the constructive solution envisaged in what refers to the station in Moyua. Moyua station, in the information study was planned as what is called cut and cover This new situation means that by itself, without any other alteration, we would need to rework the information study, since we had already reworked it as a result of the constraints of the environmental impact assessment. If we also make a substantial change in how this constructive project is implemented, it forces us to retreat and carry out the full informative study. Hence, together with this conditioner and what he was talking about the modification that has taken place in Bilbao, we plan to do again a complete informative study of the solution of the arrival in Rekalde, Irala and all the people, all the Bilbaons and Bilbaons who are living together in the southern part of Bilbao. Therefore, with regard to these studies and projects, we are already finalizing the constructive project. And it will allow me to tell you that in the face of this conditioning, it is true that, observing that this modification was taking place in the constructive project in the Moyua area, we have delayed – and I am aware that we have done so – the elaboration of the constructive project of the next section, that of Moyua-Rekalde, but precisely because we had to draw up an informative study, we are not going to carry out a study that will not then serve us. That has been the reason why we are currently finalizing one of the sections and we need to rework the information study in the light of all these changes. We sincerely believe that we must do so in order to provide an appropriate solution. And we are not considering not giving a good service, not giving a metro service, not giving a quality service and with adequate frequency, the best service to all those people, living in Rekalde, living in Irala and southern Bilbao, but we need to carry out that informative study. And it is true that all this is delayed, it is true, but I think that we cannot afford not to do so in the best possible way as a solution and that, on the other hand, it allows us to ensure that the resources we use are used in the best possible way as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u53	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you for not publishing other works, but you did publish a section that belongs to this line but on which I have not asked you. And I have to recognize his ability. "Isn't it?"... if you were giving a press conference, then maybe journalists have no choice but to ask questions, you would have dropped it. But since this is an inquiry, isn't it? You use a few words..., give the best public transport, rail transport, with quality and frequencies, with metro characteristics... But not the subway. So, what you're doing to me here today is banishing the subway to Rekalde. That's what he's doing. What are you trying to do? Save your face for municipal and out-of-town elections. That's what you're trying to do, because, of course, the neighbors, I tell you, have been waiting 25 years for the subway. And you here today, of course, it's very hard to say, "No, no, metro is not going to be." Because that's what he's saying, what's underneath is what he's saying, they're not gonna have a subway. You tell me about the FEVE line that passes through Basurto. I'm already telling you, what are you going to do with the high neighborhoods? What are you going to do with the high neighborhoods that were planned to get the subway? What are you going to do, a tram? Are you going to get the idea out of the tram again? Because rail transport with frequencies can also be. Are you going to take the tram out again? What are you going to do, put shuttles like in Galdácano, on line 5, which also has them happy, to the neighbors? That's... And one of the issues we were asking here on the table was that there had to be a participatory project listening to the neighbors. So far you have not listened to them, because I am convinced that if you had listened to the neighbors, they would have told you that this new study does not like anything. Here's the press release they sent yesterday about your words the other day. This is the people's government, listening to these neighbors. Are you going to listen to them? No, he won't listen to them. Because you, what you're doing is dizziness. Another new informational study. No, don't sell it to us now as it is that, of course, as it used to go one way and now it's going to go to the cave, so there's... no, it's not. That no, that you, what you don't want to do is do the subway to Rekalde, but say it clearly. And now, as the FEVE line has, then, you're going to re-do an informative study of what you're going to do. In the previous inquiry you told me about the Bizkaia Mobility Authority, now instead of being the Bizkaia Mobility Authority – the kick forward – is the informative study of needs, how we will meet the needs of the public transport service. But that was decided a long time ago! Another thing is that you don't like that and have decided that there is no subway to Rekalde. If it's as easy as that! It's as easy as saying, "No, there's not going to be a subway to Rekalde, there's going to be a subway to Rekalde. There's going to be another kind of transport, but not subway." And it's that easy, it's that simple, counselor, to say, "There's not going to be a subway." Do not talk to me after quality, frequency and one thing you usually mention, which is economic profitability. Look, as we are talking about public transport, of course it has to have economic viability, social profitability is also very important. Because, you know? The neighborhoods of Bilbao are the ones that make the most difference in rent, the ones that make the most difference in the whole of Euskadi. Between the rent, for example, of Abando and Indautxu and the rent, for example, of Peñascal, which is the last one – I am talking about the first two and the last one – there is a difference between 30,000, thirty and so many thousand, and 12,000 (10,000-12,000). Look at the differences. Vertebrating Bilbao well means ending those differences. And, of course, that vertebration had to have been done a long time ago. Man, of course you recognize the delays! It's like you recognize me as daytime. Of course, there have been delays. But there will continue to be delays and you have not complied with what this House has told you, you have not listened to the neighbors, or done the information study that was requested of you. And what he is going to do in 2018 is not what this House asked him to do either. Because you, you, what you are doing is, as you have said in other institutions, that you approve what you want, that the subway is not going to be done. That has been said by you in the corridors of another institution as are the General Councils of Bizkaia. And that's a reality. Tell that to Rekalde's neighbors. Be brave. Say, "There's not going to be a subway."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u54	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u55	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Llanos, what I don't usually like is demagogy. I don't intend to stick anything to anyone, those are his words. Now, I'm going to ask you: what is metro? What's a subway? Is the subway red? Metro, what is it? Metro is a rail service that caters to a certain number of people, around 80 million, to get an idea, and that has an adequate frequency of five minutes or less. That's a meter, and that's what works in Bilbao on line 1, 2 and 3. There are two that are red and one that is blue, and besides any of them goes on pre-existing tracks. And that could have been done using a heavier, or otherwise, metro-style or track transport. Yes or no? Yeah, right? That's a meter; so don't come over here and say, "Are you going to make a meter or aren't you going to do it?". A metro is a railway service, a little heavier than a tram, it is true, with certain frequencies and on track, at this time, railway. That's what a meter is. And from there we can discuss everything you want. I have not said at any time that we were not going to give the best quality of service on a rail transport and with that quality and service of a frequency of five minutes. Therefore, that has never been said. And don't tell me what others say at Bizkaia General Councils. I didn't say that. I am not a member of the General Councils of Bizkaia nor am I a Government of Bizkaia. Vertebrate the territory. The territory is vertebrate with many measures, and to vertebrate the territory –depends on the number of travelers–, vertebrae with a service on demand, vertebrae with a bus, vertebrae with a somewhat larger bus, of more meters, attending to more neighbors, vertebrae with a tram, vertebrae with a metro, with a service of proximity and with a high speed train. It's vertebrae with all kinds of transport. And don't demagogy me with that, please. Spattering of territory means that any of us who live in different places in this country have similar opportunities. That's to vertebrate the country, and not for the subway to reach every corner. That is to vertebrate the country, that we all have similar public transport opportunities, under similar conditions of quality and service. That's to vertebrate the country. He's talking to me about whether we listen to the neighbors or not. Listening does not mean doing what all or part of them want 100%. Listening means attending to what is being requested and looking for the best solutions to serve what is being requested. That is what I consider to be listening, what we all consider to be listening. 100% agreement is usually virtually impossible when many people are involved. And I want to insist: we are working on the best of solutions, and whether you like it or not, in certain circumstances, with a constructive project in progress, an informative study and a way of working in public works, the situation is what it is. And as much as you want me to do it by tomorrow, there are circumstances that make me have to modify and I have to retract. Whether you like what the constructive project is in the cave or not. It is the circumstance that has taken place and, therefore, forces us to retreat into time. And that's the way it is. And it's not an excuse, it's a reality. And we have to do it this way to meet all the requirements. And the elections, then, maybe you're in elections. I believe that this Basque Government still has two more years left and we have a lot of work to do before we start thinking about future elections. We have work to do and we have to do things the best we can, with responsibility and little demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "Ask me, find Casanova Alonso EH collect members of the team to the Chief of Economics and Sub-Separations for the future of the Naval fleet in Sesta." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u57	Yes, good morning. It's running out of time, Mrs. Tapia. It could be a matter of years to close up the La Naval fleet once and for all. On the 11th of October we agreed to another proposal, which, as it marked a plan of a solution to this serious situation, was the case with one unanimous consent. Among the different measures which were proposed the successor was required: He was asking to articulate with the private sector an alternative that can guarantee an industrial and economic appeal. "Está articulando su Gobierno una alternativa para que La Naval siga adelante o siguemitánose an experimentor que vegaera de fuera a salvarnos lapeleta?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u58	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Casanova jauna, articulate solution Our solution is that the public and private must be sought together. There's no single public solution, we have to do it together. So what we're doing in this art is looking for a private person in order to help the private man and to support our share, not just us, the Azidund and State of Bisca, public and private together. That's the only way to get rid of it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u61	Some things can be discussed – then we will talk about them – but others, I think, are quite clear and that there are fundamental aspects in that agreement that your Government is failing to comply with. It was proposed to establish, as soon as possible, a multi-stakeholder table involving the institutions and staff representatives. Nothing is known about that table, which was called by the Basque Government. Be quick because, as it doesn't go fast, instead of representatives of the staff you're going to have to put some rag dolls on that table, because, staff, you have a few days left or maybe weeks left to continue to exist in La Naval. He was also asked for a report to study and support the public acquisition of assets. A report to study and support the public acquisition of assets. And you are presenting this to us – to say the least, because this is entrepreneurship – a report which has made the legal advice of your department, which does not even comply with Parliament's mandate, but not because it does so badly, but which is expressly stated in the report that the report is about the potential aid that can be given to shipbuilding in the north. On potential aid. That we're not talking about help! And clearly a report was requested on the public acquisition of assets. And you, who are not in a position to spend thousands of euros on advertising campaigns or to commission advisory services or private consultancies fundamental aspects of government action such as the development of strategic plans, do not, in this case, resort to the department's own legal advice rather than to commission – now that it was necessary – a law firm of recognized prestige or a consultancy with international experience to do what they were asked to do. Where is the analysis of the perspective and industrial viability here? He just doesn't show up. Where is the analysis of the acquisition of public assets here? It is that this report is absolutely entrepreneurship, you have done it yourself to tell yourself what you wanted to hear. Euskal Herria Bildu defends and believes in the publication of La Naval and believes it is legal. And if it were in our hands, if we were a government, we would be taking decisive steps in that direction, but that is not the role that citizenship has given us, it has put you, the government there. And we have been respectful. We have modulated the speech and have been discreet when we have had to, but, of course, we understand that the agreements we have reached are broken around La Naval by the attitude of this Government, which neither convenes the tripartite table nor articulates the public-private alternative nor has it presented the report that had been requested of them. You, Mrs Tapia, continue, as you said in another intervention, waiting for Godot. I'm not saying you're wasting your time because things are doing, but you're wasting your time because you don't have plan B, you're playing it all to one card. This week we heard about Van Oord's definitive exit, and I ask him: what if that investor doesn't show up? Shall we close the Naval? Isn't there going to be a public intervention? I think it's time for public rescue, it's time for public rescue, it's time for them to buy La Naval or articulate an alternative to make the shipyard viable also with the collaboration of public institutions, it's time for public leadership. You have to have a plan B; if that investor doesn't show up, if that white eye doesn't show up, perform its function, do what you should, buy the Naval, save the Naval, articulate an alternative, but, of course, don't wait because time is running out for us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u62	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u63	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Casanova, I'll start with the legal report. You make sure you don't know anything about it. This is the report and assurance of their opinion, and of their labour? Do you doubt it? Well, I'm really surprised that officials who have really passed an occasion in these things, who are really experts, when the report has been put on the table and the work of those technicians is questioned. I don't doubt it, I trust it. Well, sometimes you put it on, sometimes you don't, sometimes you trust us. Txosten horretan agertzen da zer egin daitekeen eta zer ezin den egin, éta agertzen da, hain zuzen ére, zer partaideza hartu dezakeen zati publikoak, agertzen da argi eta garbi. Kontrastatuta dago eta argitzen da argi eta garbi, baina ez txosten horrek esaten duelako, eskatu duzuelako. Already last year, in September 2017, the lehendakari said that, according to the rules in force, the Basque Government was willing to take a public participation, always together with a private investor, which is what is required from the rules. Well, that's exactly what that report supports. To waste time, well, we have transmitted it in this House, we have transmitted it to the company committee, we have transmitted it on many occasions: our initial objective was to get rid of all the obstacles for the shipowner to get the construction process of the last dredge in operation in the shipyard, and it has not been possible. It's true, we've left our skin on it and we haven't made it. And the next step, what is it? Articulate that public-private conglomerate to get the shipyard up and running. That is the objective, but let us not confuse, please: public rescue is one thing and articulating a public-private solution, which is what we are in, is another thing. Because public rescue is not possible, 100% public rescue is not possible. And we will act responsibly and rigorously. With responsibility and rigour. And that means we need public and private, both of us, to come up with a solution, and that's not a rescue and we're not going to confuse terms, please. I don't want to stay in the words, but the content is very important. We need to get one or more private people to work with. That is the objective and that is the alternative that we have at the moment, in which we are working not only as the Basque Government, and I want to insist because I believe that it is an interinstitutional work being done with the Government of the State and with the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry, the three of them with the same will to articulate that solution, so that it is a reality in the shortest time. And it is true that at this moment we are in the worst of situations: there is no dragon and we have to look for that articulation as quickly as possible. And I do tell you – the committee knows this – that next Monday there is a meeting between the Basque Government, the Government of the State and the company committee. We began to work in the sense that the motion told us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the lawmakers of the Forest House and the National Society, the state of the "laws of the Househouse" called EAE. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u65	Thank you. On August 31, more than one person was unnoticed by the news that began to expand in the media: "Lanbide warns of the risk of losing an entire generation because of the precariousness of youth employment." Once again, we received information from the media, but aware of the importance of the research here and there, we made a quick request for information. But the answers received only by Spanish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u66	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u67	... zioen horror: "For consistency it is necessary to carry out this phase of contrast before submitting or publishing any report". Is not this a phrase of contrast, once made public, against all methodology? Isn't that irresponsible?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u69	Andrea president. I don't think it's irresponsible, Mrs Etxebarrieta. I offered him a written answer at the time and I answered the same question again. I would like to repeat what I said to him: the report is an internal interim document on which we were working. The internet publication was temporary and brief, as it was a draft and was not a definitive report, and that is why it was removed from the website. The study had been hung on the website without previous and usual contrasting work, and this is the only thing that has happened. This report is one of many that the department elaborates and analyzes, as youth employment is one of our main topics of work. And that draft said nothing different than what we already know: that all youth, also Basque, is one of the groups that has suffered the most from the crisis. We are constantly collecting data, not only in the technical office, but also in those other sources and agencies that provide this information. For this purpose we have the cabinet of Profession, which does a very technical work, which supports planning and managing, and then is the strategy of the government. It is normal, usual, that the projects and work being developed by that body be shared and contrasted with different areas of the Government, and given the dates on which we met, that was not done. The report to which you refer was issued momentarily, being an interim document that had not passed through that contrast procedure. The employment situation of young people, their opportunities for emancipation and the prevention of collective exclusion are a concern and a goal for us as a Government. And within this responsibility we must analyse data, study trends and draw conclusions from an integral perspective. We must consider the influence from a full and careful point of view, from now on, to accommodate our politics with these consequences. Therefore, for consistency, it is necessary to carry out this phase of contrast before forwarding or publishing any report, project, something usual, logical in institutions and in companies, and that is what we are doing, Mrs Etxebarrieta.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u71	Thank you. The problem is, Mr. Artola generous, that the report was sent to the media, the fact that the report was announced to have been hung on the website of the profession, the new one, by means of which the announcement was announced that he was there. The Medians opened their eyes. He went out the same week and Friday, so precisely that we're here preparing them for the documentation service. - He was on the list. The problem was, when we went into the link, that the document wasn't there and we called the profession to ask for it. And he told us it was his occupation. We understand that we have to hire him, Chief Artolarill, no doubt. It requires essential contrast from a report that publishes this kind of data. And we agree, it's a necessary and interesting report that you plan. That's why we're asking. The other says in what we have read from the media: "He's in trouble to become an indispensable tool for young people looking for work, because he's not registered to 46% of young people." Of course, we have to hire this data with professional management and workers. "If the state subsists, they would have been exposed to the social coasts by reason of their long inactivity." You must, no doubt, contract between the different departments of the Political Society. You've got to talk psychologically about how the health department develops, with the Board of Education, about the educational media, the Professional Education, the hiring, the proposing new initiatives, the contraction specialized budget games, and the approximations to start. But we have not seen this in division or in their titles. If we follow the same recipe, we shall have the same effect. And if we prolong the time of this situation, only in three, four, or 10 years from now, the profession can publish a worse report. It's one of the distinguishing characteristics of the youth's office that the committee is widely diffused, that we share it. Even the report says the situation is hopeless. Are you ready to leave young people in constant apathy and waiting, or to rekindle their hopes? Are you ready to start breaking new roads with them? We are, and therefore we have issued the proposal of a foolish plan, which requires this state, that we may set ourselves on our way to the highest employments in the negotiations of the ancients. We propose to place the collectives in the centre, which are the most serious circumstances of the Prefect, and to begin to revolutionize this situation. And this report, we believe, will put the keys to work on the table, because what we read on the media has taught us so. That's why we're asking. After your performance, if you come here on Tuesday, will it continue to contrast, or will we have a defining report on the table? We are prepared to give the shock of talking and of the situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u73	Mrs Etxebarrieta, we do not send that report to the media. The media would see it on the website and made the news they wanted. We did not send that report, and they published what they thought was appropriate. Beyond the four minutes that I have now to be able to explain to you in what the department and the government is working on to give opportunities to young people, next week, as you have said, we have an appearance in which I will expose and move the work, the reports that we are contrasting and working on in the youth field. In addition to the Technical Office of Lanbide, we also carry out analyses from the Youth Observatory that provide us with detailed information on the studies carried out by the statistical body of the department. It is the information and this data that provide us and enable us to have a more complete picture to assess the economic trends of the collective and also to be able to know the causes of their situation. And that's what served us to be able to implement items in the preliminary draft Budgets for 2019 for this group. As I said, we are concerned about the employment situation in which Basque youth find themselves, and that is why we are working, because it directly affects the sociological structure of Euskadi. This is a situational diagnosis in which the consequences of the economic crisis are highlighted. But I did not want to end this intervention without saying before that it is true that the situation of young people is a complicated situation, but that youth unemployment in Euskadi since 2016 and before it goes down, that the unemployment rate of young people in 2016 was 26% and that at the moment it is at a rate of 15%. It is true that we have to continue working, but it is also true that this Government is implementing policies that promote the employability of young people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Number of points in theme list: "Interface, the parliamentary laws of the Ostero Galiridas, to the chief of the Environmental Planets, and Housings, with Smurfit Cappa Nervión SA, which is situated in the Italian township." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u75	Good morning, everyone. Before starting I wanted to send a greeting to the suffering inhabitants of Abanto and Ciervana and Muskiz, especially to the neighbors of the San Julián neighborhood, because tonight they were unable to sleep because Petronor was in jarana. It is very good to celebrate the 50 years, but it seems to me that the matter is getting a little out of hand, and to see if there is any luck and in the centenary they stop having these constant episodes of pollution. Today, chief physician, we come with a complaint that concerns papering and rivers. We often talk here about the importance of industry and its importance, and there's a tendency to say, "Let's do the big industry again," "Mke the Industry Big Again." These costs could be of many kinds, and could be economical or not. There's going to be hard economic costs if we use money to solve the pollution problem, but there's no economic commitments and, as it happens today, it's the environmental cost and, consequently, our life quality. Today we come in a case of paper industry, and it's a story that comes from a long way off. And to place this right, I want to go far, to the Basque People of my childhood, to the '70s and '80s, in my case, the Tolsoletian. Perhaps some of you are a kind of experience if you are born or educated in Toulouse or Orrian, because Tolaosa villapel. And there would be plenty. He brought it, I won't doubt it, but the river killed them and stole the rivers from us. We called it el río colorines when we were a child. And when I lived in Anoas, the Young Association of Anos made an cultural week in the 80th year, and made a scene around the Oria River. And a photo called me an atheist, because you could see the Oria as it passed through Anoes, with a mementum and below, on the line: "Oria is the second most contaminated stream in Europe." When time went by, I said, "Well, that was some kind of occupation you'd ever noticed," and I thought, "Ostras, today, to illustrate this case, I'd have to bring that picture." And I've been looking for it, but I haven't found it, and it was a shame. And it's a shame I didn't have the photo, but while I was looking, while I was tangled, I found myself a document, a document that has been very curious and that I think it's worth sharing in part with you. The document is from 1975, it's from full franchise. It is forceful for the time, and treats with enough precision what we had to endure. And the time is the end of Francoism and now I'm going to read..., imagine an entrance of Nodo, from behind, giving a little tension here, and says: "Sociological studies on the social situation of Spain. 1975. Contamination of the river network. According to the data presented at the first water symposium in the industry, all Spanish river basins are contaminated, with the most affected areas being the Vascongadas, the Eastern Pyrenees and the Tagus Basin. "In Vascongadas, industrial dumping has ended with almost all the fish fauna of rivers such as the Oria, Urumea, Oyarzun, Urola, Deba and Nervion, which can be considered dead in some of its stretches. "The Urumea pollutes the square of San Sebastián and the Oria has been described as the dirtiest river in the world." Look, Mr. Arriola, where I come to learn this week that I grew up by the dirtiest river in the world, and they were short at that exhibition. Well, as you see, and you will share with me, we have a really fucked-up heritage, with a giant catalogue of potentially contaminated soils, with more than 14,000 contaminated land, rivers with heavy metals, with lindane scattered in many places, buildings with asbestos everywhere, and we dedicate a nimity of our Budget to correct all this. And we have serious shortcomings in detection and also in correcting what is emerging. You will tell me, and you are right, that these are not the 70s or 80s and that things have improved a lot and such and what, that I will not deny, but the case that I bring you – and that is why I have put you in this background – comes also from that time; and in particular – and I thank Geoeuskadi, because it is a wonder to dive on his web – I do not know if you will be able to appreciate... [[Shows a photo]] This is an orthophoto from 1977, two years after the report I was quoting, in which you see Cells Nervous, in Iurreta. This is the Ibaizabal and in this land next door – which according to the catalogue of contaminated soils are 36,000 square meters, four football fields – you can see how the trash was throwing all the solid remains at this land and the liquids went directly to the river, which was considered a sewer at that time. In 83 – now in full color, orthophotos – we can see how calcium carbonate is accumulating in all this terrain; there are dark pools, which are not well known what they are. And if we see the year 95, which is no longer Cellulose Nervion, but it is Smurfit Kappa Nervion S.A. because the purchase in the 94, we see that these lands are being filled and there are still some mountains, some accumulations of calcium carbonate, liquids and so on, and it is being covered. And it turns out, if we look at the picture today "I took it out of the Maps yesterday," we see how next to the trash can of Iurreta we have what looks like a beautiful forest, which is on the banks of the river Ibaizabal. Of course, has the situation improved a lot? For I am not so clear, because it turns out that from those waters, these muds; or from those dusts, these birth rates, as Kortajarena said. Well, it turns out we put the shit under the carpet. What is apparently a green place, a green area, what is causing it is, from one point of view, a problem of first magnitude pollution. We were aware of this in May, at the beginning of May, and those who warned us of this told us that the Basque Government was notified through URA and that the Bizkaia Parliament was also notified. And we said, "Well, let them do their job." But just in case, we went to see that thing, see how it was. And it turns out that on 250 meters of river bank we find this. We found this, which we thought was something... well, aside from that, it smelled fatal, it smelled like trash a lot. We found that there was this. As we understood that the government had just been warned, we said, "Let's give them time; let's give them time, let's work and see how they do it." But, just in case, what we did was take a sample, and here I bring you the sample. [[Shows a song]] And also, how not, because the sample, you can tell me that these are the remains of anything, we also take it to the lab of Labaqua Tecnalia and I bring you this sample, which, in case they haven't, this, which cost me 150 euros of my pocket, goes on my account, okay? The thing is, I don't know what you guys have done, but what I'm worried about is not so much. – which also, of course – all the pollution that comes from so far away, but what is happening, what is happening in your apartment and what is happening with the Basque Government, that when you know that there is a case of pollution like this, of which you have record, it turns out that six months later – and that is why we have decided to make it public – six months later we find that the situation is exactly the same. [[Shows a photo]] And while that sample was collected in May, this sample was collected before yesterday. [[He showed us a bottle.]] I didn't take this one to analyze, but I'm also going to leave you a sample. I've brought the corresponding boat, in case you want to take it for analysis. [[He filled another can.]] There it is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u76	Mr. Otero, I think that's not a question of doing that, huh? Así que
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u77	Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u78	I'm out of patience. Please. I don't think that's the kind of thing you're supposed to do in the lobby.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u79	I don't have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u80	No, but it doesn't matter. Atrila isn't for that, is it? You can understand that. I think That there is a good sense enough for it. There is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u81	Okay, okay, okay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u82	Yeah. Maddalen, I'm speaking, please. Okay, yeah, but you don't have the word. Así que Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u83	Okay. Yeah. What I think is... But what seems to me to me that it's not too neat to be like this for so many years, and that from May, knowing that it's so, the government hasn't taken any precautions at all, and that things are exactly the same nowadays. I want to hear your descriptions, I want to know what you've been doing, but I don't care what you've been doing, I don't care why this fun isn't capable of jumping measures and not following what's going on there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u84	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Otero, allow me first of all to comment on the formulation of your question: you ask about the measures that our department is going to take, as if we were doing nothing. It is certainly a lapsus – I want to think about it – involuntary, so, given this precision, I begin to detail to you what we have done and what we are doing to ensure the compliance of the paper company Smurfit Kappa, of Iurreta, with the operating conditions set out in the integrated environmental authorization. Following the current regulations on pollution prevention and control, and not getting too far back, the company was subjected last year to an unscheduled inspection, on 21 February, and to a scheduled inspection, on 29 May, and a scheduled inspection has already been carried out this year on 7 May. The former are carried out, as you know, when an incident claims to act, while the programmed ones evaluate in detail all the environmental aspects included in the authorization. In addition, the conclusions of the environmental monitoring programme to be presented by the company are reviewed annually, as has been done with the data for 2017. I should like to inform you that the 2019-2026 environmental monitoring programme is currently being processed, which aims to improve the integrated pollution prevention and control work of certain companies, including companies. Also, to inform you, at the end of September the integrated environmental authorization of Smurfit, dating from 2008, has been updated in order to incorporate the best available technologies for the production of kraft paste, paper and cardboard, which is dedicated to this company, and thus imposes new lower limit values in parameters such as particles, nitrogen oxide or sulphur dioxide, which will reduce the incidence of activity in the air quality of the area and odours. In addition, the company has been requested to submit a single report on soil and groundwater within six months. In this updated integrated environmental authorization there is a special mention of the existence of an old calcium carbonate deposit that Smurfit inherited from the former company that owns the trash. The date of dumping is unknown, but we know that the company stopped using it in 1988, a date prior to the landfill regulations. In particular, the review of the authorisation imposes measures to ensure the slope of this deposit and the treatment of leachates that are generated, to prevent them from affecting the Ibaizabal River channel and groundwater. All these actions are being carried out, as I said, in the field of prevention and control, but when violations occur we also sanction as appropriate, and not only through the environmental authorization, as was done on 26 February 2017 following a dossier initiated by the company for reasons other than leachates, but also, where appropriate, by them. I have already commented that in the review of the environmental authorization a specific soil report has been requested from Smurfit, but there is also a control over the waste water generated in the plant, which must meet the conditions set, prior to purification, for its discharge to the collector of the Bilbao-Bizkaia Water Consortium. Well, in the exercise of these monitoring tasks, the Basque Water Agency became aware on 24 April, following the complaint of an individual, of an unauthorized discharge into the hydraulic public domain, coming from the land of the company, and on 24 April, the inspection service of URA came to the indicated place and found that there were several points where the leachate, of a high pH value, reached the Ibaizabal channel. The calcium carbonate encapsulated deposit indicated was identified as a cause of discharge. This accumulation already caused problems in 2013, after which the company made some channels around it to lead the leachates to a pumping well, from where they were sent to their depurator. It was found, however, that this solution was not fulfilling its task to date and that there were spills in the way. Therefore, on 27 April, a request was sent from URA to Smurfit Kappa Nervión to immediately correct this situation and to communicate the measures taken within five working days. On 9 May, the company's response was received, indicating that, following the request – and I read it textually – "On a regular and regular basis, physical inspections of the site are carried out by designated, duly qualified personnel, in addition to checking the system of leachate collection and shipment to the sewage treatment plant". It adds that leachates were removed by suction with a tanker truck, together with a daily frequency of inspections to ensure the absence of leachates and the proper operation of the pumping facility. In addition, drainage channels are being reviewed to ensure that there are no obstructions or leaks in them. However, a new report by the URA inspection service of 18 May states that visits to the site on 15, 16 and 17 May have again shown that contamination of the river continues at several points. In addition, a leachate sample is taken, which, among other relevant data, records a pH of 12.23 and solids in its expression of a concentration of 258 milligrams. Mr. Otero, the analysis is going to pay you because you could have asked us. I have it complete here with 12 parameters. If I had asked for it, I would have had it. He would've saved himself paying the lab. Consequently, and in view of the fact that the actions taken by the company do not appear to have been effective in resolving this problem, on 18 May a further request is sent to the company to remove this contaminant discharge and five days are given again to report on the measures taken or, if necessary, to report on the solutions it proposes and with what time-limits for implementation. On 29 May Smurfit replied that she had hired an external consultant to assess the current situation and propose actions to be taken. And he announces that as soon as they continue to get leached to the rocky edge that is next to the channel they will continue to suck them with a tanker truck with a higher frequency. However, on 2 July a new URA report contains the visits carried out by inspectors between 21 May and 29 June, which shows that the situation remains, that leachates accumulate in the slope and reach the river at least 12 points outside the channel. Since the measures have not been able to stop the dumping in Ibaizabal, on 21 June the Directorate of Management of the Public Water Domain of URA proposed to initiate a sanctioning file to Smurfit Kappa Nervión Sociedad Anónima for the commission of an infringement provided for in the Waters Act (unauthorized spill). The notice of proposal to open the file is communicated to the company on 2 July 2018, while it was once again required to take definitive measures to stop the pollution caused. As you see, Mr. Otero, it is a little free to come to this rostrum and suggest, not only here but in the videos in which you also promote and act, that nothing is being done. That is, the Administration is acting, it is also acting from the very first moment, from the first day it receives the complaint, and it is continuing to do so and we will continue to do so in the next few days, because the objective, ultimately, that we are pursuing is to ensure that those leachate spills are eliminated and that it is also done with a guarantee for the future, given that we are talking about a very old problem. You were talking to me about the situation of the Oria... I too have been a child and I remember the situation of the Ego River in Eibar and how the rivers in Euskadi were in general. And, in fact, how we were at what we're at has nothing to do with it, right? We have greatly improved the situation we had in the rivers in Euskadi, but it is certainly something that we have to take care of and maintain, not only with budget but with monitoring and control to ensure that environmental regulations are complied with at all times.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u86	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u87	Yes, thank you. Well, Mr. Arriola, I'm glad one thing, that you recognize that we have a big problem. I think that has become clear, that URA has been going around, that there are 12 spill points, that is a problem that comes from afar, that the levels of the analytics are alarming. I'm glad there's analytics, but, of course, you teach me analytics and tell me the laps they've been around, and that's the demonstration that the system works. And for me, I'm going to tell you it's... I don't know if it's the other way around, but the photo I showed you, the last photo I showed you, it's from yesterday. And we're talking about a six-and-a-half-month situation after you guys get to know each other. I think you don't have the limbs to come out here empty to tell me and tell us all "Look how well this works," when I, what I'm telling you is that I have photos and samples from before yesterday that they are showing that the pollution problem we still have is the same and that the leachates are going to the river Ibaizabal the same; therefore, I don't know what is the reason for your joy at this point. And you, well, the verdd is that there are some things that have surprised me, because the analysis I did gave 11.4 pH and you're telling me it's 12.23. It's just that the value is even worse, it's more alkaline. You're telling me that there's an old calcium carbonate spill there, and indeed, but I think we have a bigger problem, that it's not just calcium carbonate that was spilled there, because I think that with orthophotos you can see it clearly. And I say, there is a company that is responsible for that spill, that has been continued for years, that is active and you, after all these months, what you tell me is that this government "I understand that it is all that this government has done," he said, "that they have committed an administrative breach. Listen to you, this company, in the '89s, '90s, when it was about to start the depurator, when it was supposed to have already entered the law and had the depurator running, was denounced because it was long - let's leave it there - throwing the waters directly into the river without depurating. And she was condemned for it. There is a judgment in 2006 condemning those responsible – I am not going to say their names – as perpetrators of a continuing crime against the environment and penalties for each of them, etc., etc. I mean, I understand that this doesn't just have an administrative drift. We have discussed a lot in this Parliament about how we deal with environmental crimes. Where is the cooperation between departments? What measures has Ertzaintza taken? Because... and it's a shame it's not Joseba Egibar, but "Good boy." It turns out that whoever's investigating the case is the Civil Guard – and we haven't called it ourselves. How can you tell me that this government is not capable, in the face of what is clearly an environmental crime, of talking about administrative infringements? And six and a half months after we found out, we still have the same problem. Don't we have the means as a government to get in there and stop the spill, which we know where it is, we've located it? And the company will have a responsibility, but we have an emergency situation with respect to the Ibaizabal River. You're telling me we don't have a way to solve this? And one last thought: I told you before yesterday, I criticized you in the Budgets because you looked more like the housing advisor than the environment advisor, and we also criticized the 37% increase in the advertising heading. And you said to me, "No, no, it's that we use advertising to meet our goals." Well, I think we should start thinking seriously that one of the objectives of that publicity had to be that the citizenry knew and was aware of what is going on and of the actions that you are doing. Because it's not worth going on May 22nd in happy biribilketa
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u88	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Otero, I don't think you've come here to express any cause for joy or any of this. I could smile at a certain moment in the chair or even here because you brought me some boats, as well as if you discovered me America, and you had the analysis in your pocket. And that's why I taught her. That's not that I have any cause for joy or that I'm here retweeting in the mud of all this. I think you know, Mr Otero, that this problem is a complex one. And the complex problems that come from the old, as is the case, are not solved overnight, nor are they solved by making a video, although I recognize you that I have seen it and you come out very well; you will not win the Oscar, but you come out very well in the video and the truth is that it expresses itself very well. But the truth is that before you went to the shores of Ibaizabal to record that video, among other things, the URA inspectors had already been there and had been analyzing the waters, they had been requesting the company, etc., right? And both URA and the Environmental Administration Directorate have been working on this matter for a long time, as I have mentioned in my previous intervention, and we have continued to work on it later. It does not end the work with the intervention that I have had in a first instance. On 11 July, URA received the company's response to the request sent with a proposal for action. The plan proposed by the company, in view of the failure of the pumping well system that it created in 2011, was to improve the drainage and build next to the channel a wall that contains the filtrations and allows to pump them for purification. This would require, among other things, a stripping of the area to locate the filtration points. However, after analysing the proposal, URA's technical report will be negative, because it is considered that the solution to contain and collect leachates from the mound of calcium carbonate deposits should be addressed at a minimum distance from the channel of five metres and at a level that ensures that there are no leaks in the field. In addition, on 17 October, the sanctioning file agreement was transferred to Smurfit on the basis of the offences committed. And what I want to tell you is that the conclusion is that the department has never looked anywhere else; from the first day we are there. Both the Vice-Councillor for the Environment and URA have become aware of the problem from the outset, and work is being done rigorously to protect the environment and citizens. That solutions take time to apply? Sure! I too would like to be able to take action more quickly, but the procedures are the ones that are and must follow the steps and deadlines set, both to sanction and to find the right technical solutions that solve the problem. And they are solutions that must be given and sanctions that must be paid by the company, which is responsible for the pollution, no matter how much its origin is an inherited origin. Our department will continue to make every effort to stop this dumping of leachates at Ibaizabal and to make the solution a solution that offers guarantees, because it is our obligation and we will continue to act from a double direction, from URA and from the Vice-Council of the Environment, through the updated integrated environmental authorization of the company, which, as I have pointed out, must include a report on soil protection. The treatment that this company receives from our department is the same as that given to anyone else with the same rank of environmental requirement. When there are breaches or infringements, it is done according to the rules in force; this was done last year because of the odor problems attributed to this company that affected Iurreta and Durango – it was sanctioned for two violations and it was demanded corrective measures that seem to be working – and in this same sense, our department is already and will put all its efforts in order to resolve satisfactorily these spills of leachates to Ibaizabal. It may take a little longer than filming your video, but I guarantee you we won't stop until we achieve the goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u90	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interpology by Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, a member of the Pogula team, made of Ogas and the Chief of Economics, the bill of contributions." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. I would like to speak today, Mr Azpiazu, about Law 2/2007, which defines the methodology for the distribution of Community resources and determines the contributions of the outlaws of Álava to the financing of the budget of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, which, as it has a very complex, very long name, we have always called it the contribution law, and so we all understand quickly. And I feel legitimate for that, Mr Azpiazu, because as a citizen of this Community I pay my taxes here and I find it interesting to know what part of the taxes I pay go to each of the different levels of the administration to receive the services that it provides to all citizens. And as a parliamentarian, logically, I am interested in this matter, because we are in a somewhat prolonged situation, a somewhat irregular situation, since this rule ended its ordinary validity in 2011. And I mean you even though I could have done it to another member of the government, because historically it has been the Finance Advisors who have felt legitimized to answer all the queries and questions that have been asked in this House and because, in addition, you have made the commitment in the legislative calendar to bring the bill reforming the law of contributions to this House during 2018 and you have not yet done so. The facts are very simple. This rule is very important, and this rule cannot have an indefinite effect, because the situation at different levels of administration (the competences they assume, the normative changes that require them to provide one or other competencies) evolves over time. The economic evolution of the three territories may be different, and that also has its significance, and that is precisely why Law 2/2007 provided for an ordinary term from 2007 to 2011, and that has been over for a long time. In the event that no agreement was reached with the new law, an extension from 2012 onwards was allowed or envisaged, which is where we are at present. I insist, a somewhat irregular situation, because the ordinary term ended a long time ago. The excuse given at the time, which the previous Finance Advisor, Mr. Gatzagaetxebarria, has given in this rostrum on several occasions, was simply that we could not talk about the reform of the contribution law until the Cup negotiations with the Government of Spain were concluded. From our group it always seemed to us a fallacious answer, but, in any case, that matter is already closed and that excuse is no longer valid. Subsequently, a municipal law was placed on the table which was necessary in Euskadi and which had to be waited for the law to be passed in order to be able to inflate the tooth to the issue of the contribution law. The municipal law – well, the local institutions law of Euskadi – is already in place since 2016. Moreover, that law gave rise to a new excuse: it was necessary to wait for the report, which in its provisions stated that it was necessary to prepare within one year to see the situation of the financing of each of the three levels of the Euskadi administration, in order to be able to know how the resources were distributed. Here you have taken quite a long time. If there was a 12-month period, 26 had been taken to prepare the report. He was handed over to us before the summer and just a few days ago he appeared in this House. I am grateful to you that you did not have to go through the trouble of bringing that report to the House because the report, I think, does not really meet the expectations that we all had, not even those that you gave last year when I asked you about this issue, since it does not meet the object. Of course, it is extremely short-lived, the law is skipped to the bullring, but it does not even meet the object of it, which was to give a clear and sincere analysis of what the competencies were, how they were being financed and, above all, to give the arguments to address the reform of the law of contributions. Mr. Azpiazu, those are the facts, and those facts have an applicable law. I insist, we are in an extraordinary extension since 2012. We are skipping the Euskadi Institutions Act itself within the deadlines of the report and in the drafting of the new rule, but we are also skipping the word of your Government and a commitment that personally you assumed here, that was to bring inside a the new amendment of the contribution law. With this, we have facts that do not agree with the law, laws that are being trampled on by the government's will not to agree, within the Basque Finance Council, to bring us a new bill, and that is the reason for my inquiry today, that more than an inquiry directed, Mr Azpiazu, to ask you or to ask you about things, goes in the other direction of the word inquiry, it is practically a plea, is to ask for protection, Mr Azpiazu: bring us the norm already. Because they had a problem before, and it is that within the Basque Finance Council the three most significant parties were represented, through the outside parliaments, at that time in Euskadi, because they governed each of the three parliaments of the three historical territories, but at this time that government is monocolored; it is your party, Mr Azpiazu, that is at the head of the Hacienda departments of those three parliaments, and therefore it is understood or should be understood that it is easier to reach an agreement between the party comrades than between a series of political forces with antagonistic interests or different interests, or that they could seek more political confirmation, to have a political excuse, than to actually reach an agreement on something that is important to everyone. It seems, as we have been told in the report that you did not present us but sent us to the House, that all the institutions are sufficiently well financed, so apparently we were able to understand the other day in the committee that there will be no contribution law, since everything is right and everything is well done and so we have no problem. What I want to know is, Mr Azpiazu: is something being done from the government to bring the reform of the contribution law here? What steps have been taken? Has any agreement been reached at the last Basque Finance Council? Has this matter been dealt with? How are those jobs? Because I do not know what is happening within that council, but I do know what the various Members-General, all of their party, say when they have to talk about the distribution of funding. Because there are two Members-General who complain that they are paying the duties of a third party, of the largest territory and of which it has the most economic volume. Apparently, when they are outside the Basque Finance Council they show their disagreement with the current legislation, with the distribution that is being made, but when they are inside it seems to be either their specific weight is very small or we really do not discuss this matter. Not to mention Eudel. In my professional life it has been up to me years ago to see the financing of the Alavese municipalities since the Álava Foral Diputation, and I can assure you that, contrary to what the report says, the position of the municipalities was clear complaint. There was not enough funding from outlaws to municipalities to meet all the competencies, to meet the services they provided to citizens. And it was not a unique position of the Alavese municipalities: Eudel has made the banner of this speech, and hence the need for them now to sit on the Basque Finance Council, thanks to the adoption of the municipal law, which they are not complying with by not bringing this bill here. Moreover, with the regulation that we ourselves have given ourselves is a task that the parliamentary groups cannot do, we lack legislative initiative. We cannot propose the adoption of a legal text to that effect, because the Government alone is responsible for the initiative. And that is why I ask you today or I ask you what is not being done, what is happening in that Basque Finance Council and why this bill is not being dealt with in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u93	Good morning, Mr. President, Congressman. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, look, I thank you for your speech, I understand your concern and I hope to clarify the issues that concern you. When you said that it was an apology what the previous advisor said, that an agreement had to be reached on the topic of the Cup in Madrid, I sincerely believe that it was true that an agreement had to be reached before redistributing resources internally through a law. I think – and that is true – that it has been fulfilled, with which that excuse no longer exists. It's no excuse for municipal law, I think. LILE itself, as it is now called, stated that an analysis had to be done first to see, in fact, whether or not some changes were apparent from that analysis in a future contribution law. Well, as you know, on 21 June the members of the Basque Council of Public Finance received the document of general analysis of their own competences and the financing of the various institutional levels of the Basque Autonomous Community, better known as the LILE report, to which you refer in this inquiry. I shall now give you a concise explanation of his conclusions. The analysis concludes that while the financial capacity of each of the local institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community is very diverse at individual level, they as a whole have adequate funding for the development of their competences. It also concludes that the various institutional levels for the Basque Autonomous Community adequately address the competences of each of them, reflecting the distribution of expenditure, in general, in a correct manner. This analysis has been developed by a working group composed of representatives of the The Basque Government, of the three outlaws and of Eudel. This is a general analysis of both the system of distribution of competences and the interrelationships between institutional levels and the funding system at each level. institutional as well as adequacy, distribution of public expenditure according to the competences assigned. The study provides a complete overview of spending and entry at all three institutional levels, with a diagnosis based on the 2015 exercise data, although the conclusions obtained are equally applicable today. The LILE report contains a number of recommendations to be estimated by the Basque Finance Council with a view to whether or not to be taken into account in the new contribution methodology. You are also aware, as you have commented, of the content of the report in detail, because the Vice-President for Finance presented it to this Parliament. As we have already moved after the Basque Finance Council in October, our commitment is to conclude this year – this is our commitment – to conclude this year 18 with a first draft methodology of the new contribution law. The technical work for the renewal of the contribution law is being carried out by a working group in which all the institutions participate, and I can tell you that they are on the right track, that intensive work is being done. The rest of the issues subject to agreement are also moving forward, and we hope that the institutions represented at the Basque Public Finance Council will agree on the new methodology for the distribution of resources and the determination of the contributions of the outside parliaments to the financing of the budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country before the end of this year 18, in compliance, as I said, with the commitment adopted by this Council in October. The commitment of the institutions is the negotiation and agreement of a methodology, that is our purpose in relation to this law. Then there is the agreement, which will have to be raised to the Governing Council for referral as a single reading bill, as you have also perfectly explained, and we are aware – we are aware – that we lack a parliamentarian or a parliamentarian or a political group, even if we work to have as broad a consensus as possible. That is where we can count on you, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, or on your parliamentary group. It is not just any law, it is a rule that requires a high degree of institutional and political consensus, because we are faced with a debate that concerns the three institutional levels of the country, and it is also a law to be adopted in the Basque Parliament. We must combine the complicated balance between the financial coverage of the various public policies and the legitimate aspirations of each administration to have the best funding to cover the public services that each of them provides to Basque citizens. It is therefore a matter of drafting and adopting a law with which we all feel comfortable and identified, a law that takes into account the socio-economic characteristics to which you have also referred in your intervention in view of the historical territory and also provides a horizon of certainty and stability for the whole of our institutional system. A law that must continue on the basis of two principles that ultimately are the two sides of the same coin: neutrality and financial sufficiency; neutrality in the sense that no institution is harmed by any changes to the new regulation; and financial sufficiency in a way and way that each and every Basque institution has adequate funding for the exercise of our respective competences and the development of our public policies. I repeat: neutrality and financial sufficiency. And I reiterate once again the firm commitment of the Basque institutions represented at the Basque Public Finance Council to present a first draft agreement and a methodology of the contribution law this same year 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u94	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u95	Mr Azpiazu, the compromise you made was not that in 2018 the Basque Finance Council approved a first draft agreement between you and then subject it to the necessary procedures. The commitment was to bring a bill to this House in 2018, and it should have been brought in by now, not before the end of 2018, it should have been brought in by now and it is not being processed. You tell us that an important consensus is needed within this House and that they lack a vote. I do not know if you have already started discussions with the various opposition groups, there are three more. Of course, he hasn't called us to talk about this. What I think, Mr Azpiazu, is that your problem is internal. I believe that the problem here is not to come up with the necessary agreements of the House for the vote to go ahead. You, what you have is an internal party mess. Yes, of course. Because the deal has to be taken within the Basque Finance Council. And you say they're still working and they're still working on this. Well, I don't think so. I don't even think they started a serious discussion. You haven't recognized me in that sense. The LILE report is from June; in October there was a Basque Finance Council. Has any agreement been reached at that Basque Finance Council? Are there jobs already done, is there a pre-agreement? No, they say they'll be here before the 18th. We are already in November, Mr Azpiazu, and you have recently been very closely involved with the subject of Budgets, meetings with one another and with others to bring them forward. You're also putting this very important matter aside. And the problem, Mr Azpiazu, is that the deadlines have already jumped so much that nothing would happen for a little further delay, but it is that in 2019, Mr Azpiazu, there are out-of-court elections. And in those out-of-court elections, citizens may change the color of some of the institutions that sit on the Basque Finance Council. They can change the weights within Eudel, they can change the governments of the three outlaws or at least one of those outlaws, and the same political consensus is not as simple as it should be now. In my opinion, Mr Azpiazu, you are skipping the law or the law, and of course your word and your commitment, the legislative timetable approved by your Government, which you have presented us here with such pride, is systematically in breach of internal conflict within the Basque Nationalist Party. That is the problem, the balance of internal powers that it has between the three historical territories and the municipalities within the Basque Nationalist Party, which is being reflected in the Basque Finance Council, and hence all legal breaches come from. And to me, Mr Azpiazu, it does not seem to me – and to my group neither – that an internal party mess, a game of power within the Basque Nationalist Party, causes the government to fail to meet its commitments, to breach its word, and to jump to the chase all the deadlines set by the laws in force and passed in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u97	Mr Arbulo, if you know that there is a problem in the Basque Nationalist Party to reach an agreement, tell me, because I am not aware of this problem. What I do know is that we have been working for a long time on the whole of the institutions, which we are basically from the Basque Nationalist Party, indeed, but although there are no representatives of Eudel – there are some who are not – we are working on this issue that concerns us and concerns us. But, of course, we prefer to do so with some calmness than not to do so with care and to pass a law with which we will have problems in the future. He says we haven't called him, and we'll call them. We're working. The Basque Finance Council's commitment is to have a project approved at the Basque Finance Council, and if there is a project this year approved by the Basque Finance Council, we will transfer it to you and explain the content to you. As you will understand, I cannot explain to you anything about the content until the content is closed, because first there must be an agreed content between the institutions and then seek that consensus between the parliamentary groups. I believe that there, indeed, as you said at the beginning, is not a law that can be amended. It is a law that will have to be supported or not, but, of course, it will have to be supported or not by a proposal made by all the institutions, which are responsible for managing the resources derived from that law afterwards. We're not in any irregular situation. We're on extension. The extension is perfectly provided for in the contribution law, the extension allows us to function perfectly, and I have not heard any rare noises in the sense that this law does not work. No, no. Of course I have read some articles in the press that they know there are a number of differences in one territory or another! We will try to correct all these kinds of issues, if possible. And I think I do, I think I do. We are, of course, doing so with political will to make this happen. You remember that, in fact, in less than a month after my appointment as a Finance Advisor, the first thing I had to move was that we were not going to meet the deadlines that were then set. There were then no conditions for reaching a law; it was also lacking to do, among other issues, the study of the LILE, which was preceptive, as he said. And I have done so from the conviction that it is better to take longer to make a good law, which may last more than five years, with which we feel at ease and committed all the institutions, than to make a fast law in which we are all disgusted and uncomfortable. And I would do it again, I would delay a period of time so as to reach a favorable agreement for everyone. I assure you, I think it is better to spend the time needed to do the right thing than to do it fast and wrong. I know that you do not escape that it is not any law, and I have said this, that it is a rule that requires a high institutional and political consensus, because we are faced with a debate that concerns all three institutional levels. Get involved, get involved. As I said, we must combine the complicated balance between the financial coverage of the various public policies, defining among all their priorities, and the legitimate aspirations of each administration to have the best funding to cover the services that each of them provides to Basque citizens. It is therefore a matter of drafting and adopting a law with which we all feel comfortable and identified. A law that while taking into account the socio-economic characteristics of each territory, as you said before and as you also acknowledge, provides a horizon of certainty and stability for the whole of our institutional system. And in conclusion, I would like to reassure you and reiterate the commitment that we have already moved after the Basque Finance Council in October, which is to conclude this year 2018 a draft, at least, of the methodology of the new contribution law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u98	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Antonio Damborenea, the USSEGA, was made to Ogal and Economics Chief of Economics, with regard to the pay-house and the tribets planned in the budget for the government." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Azpiazu, I, this question was asked on Monday and I thought that perhaps today I had to withdraw it, but after the appearances, especially of Mr Erkoreka, I had no choice but to keep it. I am going to do a futuristic exercise and we are going to assume that the draft budget law that you brought us is approved and comes into force on 1 January. Among the forecasts contained in Article 19.1 is the increase of the officials of 2.25. Then it has another article, 19.13, retribution of the lehendakari, Government, such, also provides for 2.25. Then it has an additional sixth provision, the RGI, 2.25. And then a final provision two, amending the High Charges Remuneration Act, incorporating the trienniums that can become high office, possibly government personnel, etc.; not acting, nor labor, nor things of these, as Mr Erkoreka explained to us, that it was a thing of justice for them, but it is that they here in these articles do not appear any. So, my question is very simple. On 1 January, if this law is passed, officials are not going to have a 2.25 rise, and you know it, as I know it, as Mr Erkoreka knows, that he also stressed that we cannot put the increase we want. Why? Because the basic legislation, which is this year's Budget Act, is at 1.5. So, my question is very simple. I already know that the salaries of the Government are approved by this House without these limitations; then, as I believe that this House has approved these Budgets that you have brought us and I believe that you are not going to be able to raise the salary to the officials on 2.25 – as you were not able to do on 1 January last year for this increase this year and we had to wait for the State Budgets to be approved with that 1.5 increase – my question is whether, despite the fact that the salaries of the officials are not actually being raised, those of the Government are going to increase or are not going to increase, because that did not make clear to us, in addition to, finally, the trienniums, which is another plus increase of the members of the Government. My question is very simple and very simple, and I hope I haven't put you in any trouble.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u100	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u101	Egun on, President Andrea. Mr. Damborenea, I have to confess that, even though you say it's simple, I was completely confused when I read your question. He said: "Will the Government maintain the increase in salaries and the collection of salaries in terms of seniority to members of the Government, senior management and contingent or contingent personnel, consisting of the collection of an amount for each three-year period, as envisaged in the draft Budget of 19, even if the salaries of staff members are not increased to the level envisaged?". I read it, and the truth is I'm not very clear, but today he tried to explain it to me and I don't know if at all, but I think something intuned, and I'm going to try to explain it to him. On Tuesday, I thought that in my appearance it was more or less clear, in the Committee on Finance and Budgets, which you chair, and I also think it was clear when Mr Erkoreka explained it later, but I will explain it again. There are two issues in your question, two issues that are in the Budget Bill of 19, both of which are independent. One is the salary increase for staff working in the Administration, whether officials, if any, or senior positions, of 2.25, and this will be given to all persons since 1 January in the event of the adoption of the Budget Act next year. Secondly, the bill provides for a provision, to which it has referred, which amends the High Charges Act, in order to recognize the seniority of those positions that are either not officials in this Administration or are simply not officials. This recognition, Mr Damborenea, is to correct a manifest inequality which is occurring basically between those who are officials and those who are not, even though they have been serving the administration of the Basque Autonomous Community for many years. I hope I've responded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u102	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u103	Well, I think my written question was quite clear and understood. We weren't talking about interns or anything. We were talking about the Government, high-ranking officials and contingent personnel of that Government, we were talking about the trienians and we were talking about the rise. And you know, like me, that the senior officials, the government, their salaries are set out in the High Charges Remuneration Act, which says that it is this Parliament that sets them. And, in fact – in fact – the lehendakari collects 20,000 euros gross more than the president of the government and is not subject to the limitations of the basic legislation of the officials, is it not? That is why our question is this: you expect officials to be raised by 2.25 %, but you and I know that on 1 January you will not be able to raise 2.25 %. Why? Because they do not have the State Budgets Act that amends the current one. And the current one is limited to 1.5. Secondly, since you tell me about the trienniums, it is not clear to us whether it is retroactive or not, because that does not come in the text that you have sent. You, all you say is that the High Charges Remuneration Act is amended and you will become trienniums. Point. What he doesn't say is since when. Let me see, I already know that in this country – as a whole, as a whole – officials have a number of advantages over those who are not officials, or over those who are not officials. But that happens in all administrations. And this that the non-officials become trienians is a novelty within what are the public administrations, not the Basque Country: the Basque Country and the rest of Spain. And that's why...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u104	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u105	The question is simple: yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u106	Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u107	Mr. Damborenea, they're not trienians. It's ancient. I would like to reiterate once again that the Government, if it approves the Budgets – if it approves the Budgets – intends to increase wages in accordance with the terms laid down in the Budgets Act for all those who have been working in the Administration since the first month of the year. We must comply with our law, and if the Budgets are approved, we will raise wages in the first month of the year. This increase of 2.25, which you certainly know, does not arise from nothing, but from what this Government has considered appropriate also according to the agreements to which Minister Montoro has arrived in his day with the public service unions in the State and with the belief that they will be respected. But, in any case – in any case – we understand that we have the legal title sufficient for it and with the necessary preventions for its real viability. Everything, logically, if the Budgets are approved, and that is also in your hands. With regard to the recognition of seniority, which they do not receive today, I would like to point out to you only one question to clarify: it would affect around 140 people and the cost could be close to 200,000 euros, to alleviate – I insist – an imbalance and correct what I consider to be a manifest inequality. As you know, Mr.Damborenea, the high offices that have the position of official – which is my case – we already perceive in terms of the trienniums. As I imagine you will also know that your amounts, the amounts of the trienniums, are even lower than those of the official staff, since the senior officials we do not charge for productivity. In short, Mr Damborenea, if the law is passed, the two issues you are concerned with can be resolved. If the law is not passed, none of them. I hope I have clarified your doubts, Mr Damborenea, about this. And I insist, that there be budgets next year also depends on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u108	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "Interadectition, the members of the U.S. Blanco de EH.S.C.S.S.S.C.S.S.C.S.S.C.S.C.S.S.C.S.C.C.C.S.S.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.S.C.C.C.S.S.C.C.C.S.C.C.S.C.C.C.C.S.S.C.C.C.C.E.C.C.C.S.C.C.C.C.C.S.E.S.S. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u109	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, chiefs of departments, ladies and gentlemen of the congress. This interpelation, which we have presented today, has only one purpose: To know the opinion and intention of the chief physician of the co-ordination of the Emergence-Osatricanity. Our present situation on the table is as follows: On the one hand Emergence, the director's resignation, and on the other the worry of the workers of those centers. And all this because of the decision that the Gipuzian and the Araba coordinaters had to take to Bizka. In front of this, as I said, we presented this interpelation. Commercial EH is very clear, if three center coordinators unite, the quality of service and efficacy will be worse. There are argumentes, there are, to say so, but first we'll make a small place to explain the needs and ends of these centers. The Emergence for Parties, in its structure, contains the following resources: Coordinate centers, teams, nurses' platform, educational and research service. Their purpose is to give them 24 hours of endurance in 365 days, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, when it is necessary. On the other hand, it is precisely the three centers of co-ordination, 24 hours a day, and the management of every emergency request that comes into the system through phones every day. And this management, to do the right thing, different factors and scopes are involved in the game: to give the user an account of the necessary help resources, to give them health shock, to move and coordinate the appropriate resources, such as coordinate the net of the sanitary emergency transportation, they decide to move the ambulances that have a doctor or a nurse. It's not that bad. It's not that bad. It is clear that our future, in a state of oppression, is in their power, so let us take care of this service because it is essential. And, Mr. Darpón, if you have to adapt your service, if you have to make changes, you'd have to plan them well, put them in order, and think that thanks to the intention you have in your hands today, you won't solve the service at all. And I'm going to argue with you, as I said at the beginning of the speech. Each territorial coordinating centre maintains a special relationship with each OSI. The way we act and the protocols are also different, in many cases. The protocol for organ donation is different in Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia. Different codes are applied to people for myocardial infarction by territory. Exactly the same as with the stroke code: in the case of Gipuzkoa it is activated at eight o'clock; in Bizkaia, I think at 24 o'clock. Medical staff who are in broken training in ambulances and coordinating centers, and have to know their patients, should know their patients, because we also believe that this is a plus in care. The people who work in these centres know in detail their territory, their area, with the particularity that this implies. They know the orography, the singularity of each municipality, of its streets. Let's do a practical exercise, Mr. Darpón. Get a call to the Bizkaia Coordination Center. I have come home and my husband is without knowledge: "–Where do you live?". "–On Navarra Street." I'm sure the first thing that comes to mind is Navarra Street in Bilbao. The same call enters the Gipuzkoa coordination center: "'Where do you live?". "–On Navarra Street." "– Which municipality: Irun, Toulouse, Donostia, Orereta...?". Now let us imagine that the centers are unified and that a call comes in from Gipuzkoa, attended by a worker from Araba. Do you think the answer and attention would be just as quick? I'll explain some other reasons. There's something to say about the building. Apparently, you're planning to put those co-ordinate centers in the Churdine. This building is flooded right now. And from the point of view of work, it's got to get much better in the Churdine. There is no free space to park, and EH Collect is the passionate defender of the public transportation, but it must be admitted that some workers will have to use their carriages. And why in the Churdin? Why not a Araban or a Gipuzian? As regards technology, too, there is something to say: If three centers meet, what would happen if the system fell? If the power were to go? And you know that doesn't happen every day, but now and then these things happen. Do you think that the life of a person or some people must depend on a single telematic system? You probably think that too, and we admit that at the present day technology allows us to do virtual work, but in this case we don't see improvements; perhaps, in the case of telephonic advice, there are more things on the level here. And what about the workers? The course of the worker's job from his home is shorter now, because the need for 200 kilometres to respond by phone would assume an unacceptable human cost. Did you get the staff's opinion, Mr. Darpón? Do you know how they behave in front of this decision? Look, six-seven staffs of the SADAE of Arada will demand that they move in. Why? Are you doing a test? A lot of questions, Mr. Darpón, many reasons, many doubts and great worries. This is the situation we're in right now. And it's up to you to answer in your turn, but we insist, if you intend to unify the three Osakidetza Emergency Coordination Centers into one, you will have to explain very well the goodness of your planning, if you have it, because at the moment we don't find any. So explain to us, if you think so, how it will improve the care for stroke patients, the infarcts, with the unification of the three centers. Tell us how this unification will help anyone to materialize their desire to donate organs, for example. Argue us why it is better a single center and why it arises in Txurdinaga. Explain to us, if you think it is appropriate, how you will help workers to move from home to work more far away than they do now. Tell us if with the decision they have made and put on the table they believe that in the face of vital emergencies, in many cases, a more agile, more effective, more humane, better service will be provided. And, by the way, you can explain to us why the manager of the Emergence, Mr. Unanue, has also wanted to retire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u111	Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. I agree with you about the importance of the Emergence Service; but I must say, there are several ideas you think of as confidants; I'm sure you'll agree with me, even if Emergence works, we always have to try to make it better. And in this desire to improve, there must be a certain analysis and examination to make the decisions right, and that's what we're doing. Believe me, Mrs Blanco, Osakidetza has no firm decision on the unification or not of the Emergency Coordination Centres. Our intention today is to carry out a rigorous analysis that will help us to make the most appropriate decision, always from the perspective of efficiency, efficiency and quality of service that must preside over the management of the public health system in Euskadi. And we are also convinced that the fundamental debate is not whether there should be one, three or more, the fundamental debate is whether we need a model of comprehensive attention, and therefore in that debate it is essential that Osakidetza take the decision together with the Department of Safety and Security. I think that's the key. I am fully aware of the importance of the Emergency Service. It has been doing essential work since the establishment of the SOS Deiak coordination centres in 1983, with the aim of providing Basque society with an effective system of coordination of resources in emergency situations. But it will allow me to point out: the coordinating centres were established in 1983 and were bet on a model of emergency coordination in each historical territory according to the human and technological situation and resources of the early 1980s. I do not think that anyone rationally can question that 35 years later and with the technology and resources available today, let us not unify, but let us reflect on the model of emergency coordination that we need for the 21st century Euskadi, or on what improvements we need for the next 35 years. How many organizations and services do you know that have not made any substantial changes in that period of time? In the year 83 SOS Deiak provided society with a simple telephone access, 112, an easy-to-remember phone for all distress calls, regardless of the nature of the emergency. This system has undoubtedly made it possible to respond to emergencies in an effective and orderly manner, coordinating the different resources, regardless of their origin or competence. I would like to use the question to thank and congratulate the various intervention teams working in this area for their great work. And I am referring to the Osakidetza Emergency Service, the Ertzaintza, the municipal police, the firefighters, the Red Cross, the DYA, the Basque Mountain Federation and the various groups of volunteers who collaborate in the emergency care of Euskadi. Each of these elements carries out, as I said before, work and has established functions, and I sincerely believe that coordination and cooperation in this area has been a real achievement, and that is what we must guarantee. In the case of the Osakidetza Emergencies, the Health Emergency Unit was established in 1994 to replace the former Emergency Service. You said why it was composed: by the coordinating centres, by the emergency teams and by the health transport. Until the 1990s, the health emergency coordination centres occupied SOS Deiak's independent facilities, which had been in operation for some years. It was then, in the search for greater efficiency and efficiency in the entire emergency system, when the decision was made to integrate the health coordination centres in the facilities of SOS Deiak in the three territories. A reflection and analysis of possible models was previously carried out, and a joint coordinating centre model was adopted between security resources – then Interior – and Osakidetza, and this integral coordinating centre model is what, in my humble opinion, is the main success factor. There have subsequently been several changes in facilities and locations, always with the aim of providing the best emergency coordination service. The changes have affected not only the location, but also the different computer platforms, until, finally, the unification on a unique technological platform that supports what we now know as the Basque emergency system. This platform integrates telephone communications, digitalized radio systems, messaging, etc., and allows you to share information virtually instantly among all agencies involved: SOS, Ertzaintza, firefighters, Osakidetza, etc. All this, together with the indisputable professionalism of the staff assigned to Emergencies, has allowed to respond to the demand of this service with criteria of efficiency and quality, and the activity they carry out is, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, very important: only last year more than 400,000 calls. In addition, the importance of a prompt and diligent response must be taken into account. The activity generated by Osarean, the Osakidetza Health Council, which since its creation has been located in the Emergency Coordination Centre in Bizkaia, must also be added to the emergency activity. For this reason, listening to your question – and believe me, I share many things – I have been concerned to think about putting workers' labour rights – who have them, and we will be terribly sensitive – before the coordination model we need, because the fundamental thing is the coordination model. If there has to be a center, if there has to be two, one main and one back up We have a model of Emergencies for joint coordination between the resources of the Departments of Health and Safety. After decades of joint work, we are obliged to explain to society what are the reasons for changing the model and whether integration between different professionals should prevail – in my opinion, yes – versus And we must also rigorously assess whether in the coordination of Emergencies in Euskadi, a country with 7,234 square kilometers and 2,180,000 inhabitants, in the 21st century there are three coordinating centers or one, either in Gipuzkoa, Álava or Bizkaia. And we will have to evaluate and analyze the best models and how the Emergency Coordination Centers are organized in our environment and in leading and innovative societies. You've made a reference to me. I know the sector a little, I know the sector a little. Look, a heart attack is the same in Bizkaia, Alava and Gipuzkoa. The stroke code is the same in Bizkaia, Alava or Gipuzkoa. Although they have advised you like this, there is no difference in a country with two million inhabitants, and the proof is that Madrid, which triples our population, has a coordinating center and another one of back up We have a recruitment model where we are not able to ensure that the population lives alongside their work; therefore, in the coordinating centre of Álava, in Bizkaia and in Gipuzkoa, people can live who live in the rest of the territories or even, as is the case, some workers who live outside the Community, and we do not question the quality of the service they provide. And I don't think any of the workers question the quality of the service their colleagues provide for the residence center. I know the orography of Gipuzkoa a little bit and it seems to me frankly important, but I would not dare to say that the orography of Gernikaldea, of the Bermeo area, of the Lekeitio area, of the Markina area or of the Carranza area is a differential factor. I don't think it's there, because it's technologically solved. I know a little about the transplant model because I've been a transplant coordinator at the Cruces Hospital. The percentage of transplants that leave from donor to asystole is less than 15% and, in any case, is equally guaranteed in Madrid with a coordinating centre. Therefore, the key is not there. And then, all the Osakidetza workers want to live next to their workplace. I'd just miss it! I'd just miss it! Those of Emergencies, those of Donostia Hospital, those of HUA and those of San Eloy Hospital. And I too would be much happier if the government were in Bilbao, because it would have less movement to work, but I do not think that is the factor for which we have to make decisions, whether there is an emergency or a catastrophe in a Community like ours. And I say it again, I think that workers' labour rights are absolutely respectable, and we will count on them. I repeat again that there is no decision made and we will take it very carefully. We are ready to receive the contributions; yours, those of the rest of the groups and also those of the rest of Osakidetza's workers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u112	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u113	Thanks again. Congratulations, Mr. Darpón, congratulations for making a step back. Now what you have in your hands is only study, study, study. Why don't you explain things as they happened? Why not? Why don't you admit you fucked up? Come out on the second round and confess that the idea of license has been a round mistake and that you are now selling the history of this planning or study. [[Berber]] Please! I dare you to explain what happened here. Is that your nondik debtor? Barne Sailetik's due? You've appointed Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia's department. I'm gonna do it, too. Because, look... [[He showed us a paper.]] January 2018, group Noticias, Diario Vasco, Diario Noticias, Deia. "The Ertzaintza program reorders the management of the telephone help units of Gipuzkoa and Araba". In January, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia was already giving us some clue where this was going. With what intention? That, we don't know. That, you know. There's no planning. Bring her in. There's no planning. And if there is, we'll keep an eye on her. And as always, we will try to make contributions, even if they are not taken into account. You say there's a rigorous analysis. Where is he? Where's that rigorous analysis? We do not say that we do not need an analysis and that we do not need a reflection, but that you have made a decision and now, what you have done is to back off because you have seen the one that has been mounted. In his day there was a planning, in his day there was a planning, which remained dead. Why? For the possibility of unifying the centers. And for changing, reallocating and modifying the roles of workers. No, Mr. Darpón, no, this is vox populi. Admit they're wrong, it's okay. And they're going to try to bring him back. But don't try to sell us a movie that isn't. Don't try to sell us what isn't. Mr. Darpón, the Medical Department, the Osardi, it's upside down. It's a big mess in the family. You should think of the situation we're in to correct this disorder. But it is that you, instead of admitting this hussy, then, come and tell us something else. Workers, that is, we, do not put working conditions before an emergency situation. Where did you get that idea? What I've said is that it's one more factor. And I've listed a few, and that must also be taken into account. Why do you think that the six, seven people from the Arabic SATAE who have requested the transfer to Miñones have done it for pleasure? No, they didn't. No, they didn't. The emergency manager, Mr. Unanue, who didn't tell me anything, why did he resign? Because he wanted to retire too? You wanted to retire? Like Mrs. Dorronsoro? He wanted to retire, didn't he? He wanted to retire, nothing to do with the allegations of alleged psychosocial violence. He's retired. Do you realize what's going on these past seven months? Do you realize that? Today they go back to the press again, twice, on two different issues, and not precisely to sell a wonderful plan. Twice. It's just that we can't do it anymore. I think we've been patient enough with this, with the other, with the OPEs... We're running out of patience, Mr. Darpón, we're running out of patience. And the cessations, appointments, are in your hands; you are the councillor of the Government, cease the councillor of the Government, appoint... With this interpellation, if you don't convince me in the five minutes left, there will be a motion and we'll see you on Monday. Monday we will see each other, because he will come to explain the OPEs, and we will be open-minded and constructive, as always. But one thing I'm going to tell you: it's charging us with arguments. We are having more and more reason, more and more reason to materialize that commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u115	Mrs. Blanco, as I said before, we're looking at different types of patterns. We haven't made any decisions yet. Once we have examined all parties, we can make our decision, not before. Look, I'd ask my body to give you a kind of anatomy in response to the question, because you've moved to OPE, to public health, to the manager of I don't know what, to the manager of I don't know which... Present whatever you want, Mrs. Blanco, present whatever you want, whatever you want; and, if you have not presented it, for something it will be. Don't tell me Chinese stories, don't tell me Chinese stories. Look, there's no chaos, there's no chaos; chaos in emergencies would be noticed by everyone. There's no chaos. Just as chaos is in your group, with the doubt whether or not you support the Budgets. But, of course, in Emergencies and Osakidetza no chaos. There is no unification project. There's going to be a study, there's going to be a study. And then, in the first part he has only told me about stories that tell him, because there is no difficulty with heart attacks in one center or in two or three; there is no difficulty with the stroke, there is no difficulty. You are talking to me about the working conditions of the people who work in Gipuzkoa, which is why they do not protest those of Bizkaia; and if we decide to put it in Gipuzkoa, which would also seem to me equally good, would protest those of Bizkaia. And by this criterion the health counselor is left to you, because what needs to be done is precisely nothing; precisely, you are not expert in not touching anything. Well, it's not a problem of spending, it's a problem of effectiveness, and it's a problem of reviewing a model that is 35 years old. And believe me, there is no decision made to put a single center, there is no decision made for that center to be in Bizkaia, there is no decision made to maintain the three or to put one and the other back up. We have to take it. We have to take it, because what makes no sense is to keep what we have without thinking, a model 35 years ago. Good. The subject is not baladi. We are aware that whatever decision is made, three focal points or one, can have important implications. That is why we are going to analyse it in depth, exploring each of the alternatives in the following areas: the impact on the health care of emergencies in Basque society, thinking, really thinking about what is important, which is whether there is a catastrophe or there is an accident with multiple victims; the impact of the working conditions of professionals currently working in Emergencies, who, although you do not believe it, worry me more than you because they are my responsibility (if it were yours, the same as another cock would sing); the impact on the technological platform that currently supports the activity of Emergencies and the corresponding back up These are the aspects that will be analysed in depth to make the most convenient decision for Basque society, for our professionals and for the Emergency Service itself. And then, think a little bit, think a little bit, why in Euskadi, with 2 million inhabitants, we need three; or why in Bizkaia, with a million and a hundred and a thousand inhabitants, we don't need two and we have to put one in Gernikaldea; and why Catalonia has one and the other backup; Madrid has one and the other backup; Paris has one... Think a little bit, see why. A analysis rests on one of the premises and on four sides. Premissia is the kind of co-ordinate center in Europe, and the parties to be examined are as follows: Sanitary attention, conditions of work, technological platform, and need of physical space. And then, believe me, I'm flattered when you say I fill your patience, because my goal has never been to have your group happy. My goal is to work for Basque society and keep Osakidetza running every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u116	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interpology, a member of Laura Garrido Konörkal, a member of the Popula team, made to the head physician of the Medical Department, about the irregularities of the 8th of 2016-7, and the latest events of the Osalist and Medical Department." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Medical department, chief of departments, good morning to all. Well, counselor, you're getting tough. Together with the events of recent weeks, the irregularities of the 2016-2017 OPE of Osakidetza must be added, and these events clearly complicate the situation in the Department of Health and Osakidetza. The last events have been the following: the resignation of the Director of Emergencies after knowing the project of unification of the three Emergency Coordination Centres in the three territories and unifying them in a center in Bizkaia, in Txurdinaga. And, by the way, we do not know how this project is going to be implemented, we do not know the impact that this project can have on the quality of the provision of this emergency service. Man, I have been a little worried to hear you say, in the answer to my predecessor, Mrs Blanco, that there is no decision taken, but what we do know is that there is a decision taken in relation to the resignation of the Director of Emergencies, who has apparently resigned and must relate it to this project or this announcement of unification of the Emergencies centers in one. You have pointed out to us that a process of reflection is opening up to make improvements, but at the same time you have also told us that the fundamental thing is the model and that a change of model is also being proposed. Therefore, we would like to, although my object of the inquiry is much broader and goes much more to the point about all the events that are happening in your department and in Osakidetza, which require – we understand – a concrete response and decision-making in relation to the clarification of facts and in relation to the assumption of responsibilities. But to finish this section, we are concerned, because we do not know if it is an improvement by maintaining the current model or would mean changing a model and what impact and what that change of model is concrete, which until now all we know is that it has materialized in the resignation of the former managing director of the Emergency Service. Another of the events we have recently known has been that of the director of Public Health and Addictions, after being denounced or the complaints made by workers of her service for psychosocial violence for five years. The complaint, it should be noted that it was lodged in June, and despite this situation, it must be said that it was known earlier, nothing has been done and no decision made. And I say this because, this decision, it seems that she was known by the head of the Directorate of Legal Regime and Services during the years 2014, 2015 and 2016, Mrs.Múgica, currently director of Osakidetza, and that at the time no decision was made on it. We would like to know why, being aware of this situation Mrs Múgica in her previous responsibilities, no decision was taken on this matter. And I go to the OPE of Osakidetza: the suspicions of leaks, counselor, do not disappear, remain, are there and we reiterate again that they need to be resolved. And the resolution involves the full clarification of the facts and the assumption of responsibilities. If not, Mr. Counsellor – and I say this to you sincerely, and I am not tired of repeating this – we run the risk of closing this section, this unfortunate section of the leaks of public job offers, in the 2016-2017 public job offer, in error. And I say this without prejudice to the actions that can be carried out by the Ararteko, by the Prosecutor's Office, actions that are in fact being carried out and that can be carried out. And, of course, Mr. Counsellor, we believe that you cannot hide yourself in the actions of these other bodies to give a definitive record of this matter, because there are the leaks, there are the leaks that have been recognized and are in the conclusions of the information dossiers and of the work that has been carried out by the department, and also the conclusions that we have obviously reached by the different groups, especially the opposition groups, that we have had the opportunity to analyse all this information. We are talking about one of the most ambitious OPEs in Osakidetza's history. We are talking about an OPE with 3,335 seats, to which 96,000 people have presented themselves, with concrete expectations, with the intention of having an assured future, for which they have worked a lot and, of course, those expectations they had when they knew the announcement of this OPE and when they presented themselves, we can say that many of them have seen them frustrated, and we from here again want to sympathize with all of them. Several information files have been opened; first one, then three, then four. The psychometric analyses of the university were carried out, the decision was taken by the courts, but yes, as we have stated on numerous occasions, in our view protected, those decisions of the repetition of the examinations dated 11 July by the Human Resources Directorate and the Osakidetza Directorate. Some disciplinary files had been opened; to a pediatric vowel, in traumatology. Nor have we understood to date the rationale for the opening, in this case, of a disciplinary file in relation to this specialty and in relation to members of the court who had some meeting, but which did not have direct consequences in decisions embodied in any agreement that had an impact on the EPO and much less on its results, and why no information files have been opened in other specialties. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, there is still much doubt about this selection process. The conclusions clearly speak of signs of irregularities that have been detected, which are known where they are. Another question is whether from these irregular actions, Mr Councilman, a possible criminal act emerges, but that, obviously, Mr Councilman, is not for you to clarify. But it is up to you to clarify and act in other areas in which you have responsibility. As I was saying, psychometric reports do not rule out irregularities as a result of leaks. There are facts found: the approved, the best notes, are grouped and at a certain distance from the suspended; the approved, the best notes, are grouped in relation to a position of proximity to certain hospital centres; the approved, the best notes, at a distance from others, at a long distance, linked to hospital centres, are very close to some people who have taken the examinations and some of them have even been members of the courts. Still, Mr. Counsellor – and I am going back to the question here – we do not have an answer to the repeated question we ask you, every time we have a chance to talk about this issue, about who has provided the list of experts who carry out the tests at VATP. We do not have that answer, and I think that answer is key to reaching the end of this matter. And I'm finishing up, Mr. Counselor, but you –I don't know if in the last appearance, last month, or in the July 19th appearance – he was talking to us –I believe that in both – textually, to "investigate, clarify, take steps to complete the process with the maximum guarantees, and we will make efforts to fully clarify what happened, what happened". That's what the counselor was telling us. I say to you, Mr. Counsellor, that these statements that you have made to us in Parliament inevitably lead to the end and to the end, because irregularities and leaks in the 2017 OPE cannot be closed in false. There can be no shadow of doubt about a system that is valued, prestigious and on which there is also credibility on the part of citizens and a system that is precisely well valued by the work that its professionals do every day. In short, Mr. Counsellor, something is not being done right, too many matters question and question the management in Osakidetza and in your department, and therefore it is necessary to change course. And the change of course depends on you, which is the most responsible. That is why we have asked you this question, Mr. Counsellor. Are you going to do some thinking? Are you willing to get to the end? Is it going to take on some responsibility once and for all? That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u118	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u119	Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief officers. Garrido anderea, zurre gallerari argi eta garbi was a diot zungo. Nik, Eusko Jaurlaritzako Osasun naizena naizen aldetik, hainbat hausnarketa Egypt said age weretzukizunak egunero hartzen said nire jardunean. Mrs. Garrido, managing the Government's Department of Health is undoubtedly a complex and most responsible task. It entails the need to reflect almost every day, before and after each decision, and also to assume responsibility for the events and circumstances that occur daily in the Basque health system. I am convinced that you are aware of the size and complexity of the Department of Health. Still, I'll give you some brushstrokes so we can get an idea of the task we're talking about. We manage a budget, which we have presented this week, of 3.8 billion euros, 32.2 of the total budget of the Basque Government, or if you prefer, a third. Osakidetza, through its General Directorate, manages 13 integrated health organizations, which in total include 13 acute hospitals, 153 health centres, 160 clinics. There are also medium- and long-term hospitals, mental health, emergencies, Basque Center for Health Transfusion and Human Fabrics, etc. In its structure, between Osakidetza and the department itself there are more than 30,000 workers. Without a doubt, every day many decisions are made and every day there is some problem and some novelty, we do not in vain attend to more than 80,000 people daily. Every day of the year. It is a very dynamic and, without a doubt, demanding department. I am absolutely sure that everything is capable of improvement; in fact, believe me, we work every day with the aim of further improvement. I have followed his intervention closely and have really seen few new developments. Most of the questions you have asked me have been answered in the various committees – where I have not exactly been a scar when I appear – and in the different documentation put in all the parliamentary groups, put in the Ararteko and also part of it, the most relevant, in the Prosecutor's Office, and also in the unions of the follow-up committee. You will hardly be able to tell me of a process of this Community or of any other which has put more documentation and in which it has been more transparent. Another thing is whether we have reached where you want to go or not, but that is another costal's flour, because government responsibility has given it to us. With regard to the three specific issues to which you have referred, I will say to you: in relation to the OPE, I think I have been very clear about my purposes, and they are the same, they are nothing more than to clarify what has happened and to take the appropriate measures to ensure that the people who accede to this OPE are the ones who deserve it, to improve and solve what has not worked well and also to design a new model of OPE more in line with the current and future needs of the Basque Health Service, a model that helps to select the best professionals guaranteeing the principles of equal opportunities and transparency. As you mentioned, next Monday we will present to the Health Commission a proposal for modifications to the selection and reordering processes of the Human Resources Directorate of Osakidetza, thus fulfilling, on the other hand, a mandate from this House, a motion that was approved with all the groups. I've been counting the times you've talked about leaks and I think you've mentioned them four times. Look, one thing is not to rule out that there have been leaks, in which you have me next to you, and another thing is that they are tested. You've had the records, the files and all the information. When I return to this rostrum, give me the names and surnames of the people who have filtered the exams and what part of them, because I have the same documentation as you and believe me that the one who will go to the prosecution will be me. In the meantime, let us be respectful of the professionals who deserve it and not make slight statements just for political gain. In connection with the resignation of the Emergency Manager, for whom he also asked me. Look, the Emergency Manager has chosen to leave his post at his own will, and I can only respect his decision and thank him for the work he has done at the head of the Emergency Service over the past few years. Because he wasn't at the time of Patxi López's government; he was appointed at the time of Urkullu's government, huh? On the other hand, throughout all legislatures, among the more than 100 positions between Osakidetza and the Department of Health, there are resignations, cessations and appointments in all legislatures. It can't be any other way. As I explained in my previous intervention, the Department of Health has not taken any decision on whether or not to unify emergency centres to this day. We will simply analyse this possibility within the framework of our conviction that what should not be touched is a model of comprehensive care where the Department of Safety and Health work. And I don't think this is surprising to you, because I have taken the liberty of analyzing what the focal points are like in those communities that govern you. Well, Galicia, with a much wider territorial distribution than that of Euskadi, has a coordinating centre; Castile and León, with a much larger territorial distribution and population than ours, has a coordinating centre; Murcia has only one coordinating centre; and Madrid, as I said before, with six million inhabitants, has a coordinating centre and another one of support. And I'm going to tell you more: I don't have the expertise to decide whether there's a coordinating centre and a back-up centre or three, but I do think it's my responsibility, along with the Department of Security, to analyze what the necessary target model is for Euskadi. Therefore, I don't think you feel bad if the emergency manager has resigned because there is a coordinating centre, because in all the communities where you govern – and I've only been able to tell you four, what I'm going to do to you – there is only one coordinating centre; therefore, I understand that this mention, just as you shouldn't do it. Finally, you have taken out the resignation of the Director of Public Health. I will reiterate – and I believe I have credibility and responsibility to say so – that the Director of Public Health has been on her own request and on the grounds of her retirement, following a long career in public health – and specifically in the field of public health – in Gipuzkoa and in the Department of Health. The director's decision to retire at the age of 65 had been known for months by the technicians and workers of her management and by the rest of the managers of the Department of Health. You've been talking about psychosocial violence for five years. Be careful. I won't tell you any more: be careful. And I repeat again: the director of Public Health and Addictions has done her job and retired at the time she turned 65. Lady Garrido, the Department of Health and Osar, we work every day with illusions and responsibilities, clear of our principles and priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u120	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u121	Well, counselor, I'll refer first..., you know – you know as well as I do – that if I don't close the issue of irregularities and leaks in the public job offer... And it's not about getting as far as the People's Party wants to get, Mr. Counsellor, it's about getting as far as the citizens want. And citizens want it to come to the end, because they want transparency, because they want to be able to continue to trust their government, because they want to continue to value a service, such as the public health service, as the best in the rest of Spain, because they want to continue to value their professionals as the best or the best in all Spain. And if you do not clarify this matter – and it is in your hands – it does not come to the end and you do not assume the corresponding responsibilities, that you will know what they are and that they belong to you, you know that you will be left with the shadow of suspicion for the rest of the legislature. Therefore, to give folder to this OPE, to irregularities and leaks in this OPE, regardless of the actions that may be taking place in other instances that clarify, and that is why you have sometimes put it as an excuse and tried to put it in order to give folder and that you have already completed your performances... No, these actions take place in other areas, in other instances and will resolve what they have to resolve, but you have another specific area of action and you still have to act and you have to make decisions in that area, Mr. Counsellor. And that is what we citizens are asking for and we want citizens, apart from the fact that I can move specific opinions here, being a public representative and having been elected by the citizens. Counselor, it's just that lately Osakidetza and the department looks like the house of trouble. He is accumulating his resignations and he is accumulating his cessations. And that, then, I don't know whether it can be random or not, but what is clear is that the cessations and resignations of people..., not of anyone, but of those responsible who have high responsibilities in the direction of certain services in the Department of Health and Osakidetza. We're talking about the Director of Emergency. Well, I don't know how long it will take the Director of Emergencies and his reasons, but it is that his resignation has occurred when the news of the unification of the Emergency Service has been known. Therefore, the bonding is obvious; if there is no bonding..., that you have not denied here, you have told us that you have resigned a gentleman who has been working for many years. Well, I'd be very good professional. Look, we're sorry this gentleman resigned if he's been away for so long, from Mr. Urkullu. Something will have happened so that the Director of Emergencies has made the decision to resign after a concrete announcement of the unification of a service. Something has had to happen there, Mr. Counsellor, regardless of whether he will already explain to us the project to improve the Emergency Service. And I am not going to go in there, because it is not the object of this inquiry, but it will not deny that it is very surprising that when an announcement is made regarding a change of management in a particular service, the resignation of the person responsible appears. Too much chance. And man, on the other hand, in this case it is not resignation, it has been cessation, so you have picked it up and it is published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, arrange the cessation as director of Public Health and Addictions. For retirement, but it is cessation; it has not been a resignation, it has been a cessation. This cessation has also been in connection with reports of psychosocial violence. Casually; it is known in a week, and I do not know if on the first board of government, but on the second one is approved the cessation of Mrs Dorronsoro. Well, too much chance. And, yes, Mr. Counsellor, you know as well as I do that these situations were known for a long time and that with the current director of Osakidetza, former responsible and who could have made some decision about it, it was not made. In short, counselor, the ball is on your roof. You'll know what you have to do. You, from the responsibility you hold – and I take care of that many times in very difficult situations – then, no one better than you know what you have to do so that the shadow of doubt that currently hangs on Osakidetza does not get bigger. You have to make decisions about getting to the end and about specific situations...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u122	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u123	Garrido andrea. The health department's very complex handling. I'm sure you know, and you understand well what I'm talking about, because you study and cultivate our themes. I'm sure you know how many programs, plans, and how many actions we develop, besides opening the doors of our health centres and hospitals every day, of course. Look, I am convinced that you are aware of the complexity of the management of the Department of Health and Osakidetza, and that you share with me many actions, regardless of the political differences that separate us. Honestly, the resignation or retirement of one or more people in the organization, people who do their work with professionalism and commitment, is not a good indicator of the functioning of an organization. In the last legislature we had a replacement of managers throughout it very important. In this, if you want the data, I give it to you, but we publish each place in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country and, therefore, has nothing to do with it. But what is also true is that they are part of the circumstances that we must face and overcome in order to continue to ensure quality, universal public health care, and that is what we are doing. I will repeat it again: for me it is respectable that the Emergency Manager presents the resignation. It is very respectable, more respectable than staying if it is not in accordance with how the Health Service is managed. From there, all my respects. However, I am sure that you and I do not share that someone should resign if it is that the reason for the resignation has been a project of study or unification of the Emergency Service in a country with 7,200 square kilometers and 2 million inhabitants. And the proof is that I am not going to question how you manage other autonomous communities, but in this you are an example of a unique coordinating centre. Therefore, in one of the largest communities, where you have a manager who is staffed by Osakidetza, I understand that if you submit resignation because you have a center, then you will tell him "What are we going to do!". I repeat it again, I repeat it again: the director of Public Health quit by retirement, and in the paper you have read you have failed to read "stop at your own request", "stop at your own request", because that is what the government approved, believe me. Look, in the area of OPE I can agree with you on a lot of things, but also respect me that since June we are working day by day, with speed and diligence, to investigate what happened, so that when they take possession of the 3,335 seats they are really the ones to which they belong. Because I too have seen in this Parliament asking me to cancel all, to cancel 10, to cancel only those of doctors, to repeat everything, to repeat nothing... and to respect it. I respect that, because believe me, I am faced with a frankly complicated situation, where the road is not clear. But, of course, the one who manages it has to respect the legality and administrative procedure, because shooting with gunpowder of the king is relatively simple. As you know and have said before, next Monday we have a parliamentary appearance in the Health Committee to report on the actions taken to fulfil the mandate of 21 July. At the same meeting, we will also present the report by an expert containing the proposals and recommendations for defining the selection processes in Osakidetza, a proposal open to discussion by the parliamentary groups, with whom we hope to be able to hold a constructive debate, with the aim of defining in a consensual manner the criteria and characteristics of the new OPE model. And then, my purposes are clear, they are clear: first, to finish my work with regard to definitively clarifying what happened in the OPE; to repeat those evidence that the courts themselves have determined to repeat themselves; to be transparent with you, as I think we are being; to put all the information also to Ararteko, who has another area of responsibility, and to the Prosecutor's Office, as we have done; and when we finish, if we have to take some responsibility, we will take it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u124	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, that Juan Uria Serranus, a member of the Podemos team, made to the head physician of the Medical Department, the resignation to the Manager of the Emergences of Osa. " Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u125	Barkatxo Tejeria andrea, Sailburuak, parliamentary colleagues and compañeras. I'm just four minutes, counselor, don't worry. On June 24, Dr. Unanue was at a meeting in Gipuzkoa Emergencies and in the middle of the meeting he was called by the General Directorate of Osakidetza to inform him that he accepted his cessation. The question is simple: does this end relate to a project to unify the three emergency centres?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u126	Thank you, Mr. Uria. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u127	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok, yellow uria. Look, I have no idea where Mr. Unanue was on June 24th and I don't have any idea who might have called him. Probably a lot of people. You probably have better information than mine, because I haven't been worried about that aspect and I'm not able to answer it. In any case, why did Mr. Unanue resign? The logical thing is that you ask him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u128	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u129	Bakartxo, andrea, compañeros and compañeras. Counselor, you just have to listen to me for four minutes. I will treat you with great respect and peace of mind. Treat me, please, with a lot of respect and a lot of peace of mind. Look, says St. Ignatius of Loyola in the fifth rule of the book of Spiritual Exercises, in the annotations, "In times of change it is not convenient to move"; it also translates into "in time of tribulations", "in time of desolation". The problems of fraudulent OPEs, the Donosti Onkologikoa binding agreement, the plans for the empowerment of primary care, are still unresolved, and you are in a process of unification..., let's say study, because the truth is that I thank you infinitely for your words, as I thank the White MP for the comprehensive explanation she has given on the subject. I'm not going to repeat myself, I'm going to put up some brushstrokes and I'm going to focus the subject differently on this little time I have. In the opinion of our group, the issue of unification is a misconception. And, if you have scientific evidence that there are models to centralize emergency coordination at the international level, remove it. I have some different evidence, that some coordinating centres in France, Scotland and England are proposing decentralization systems, but, well, it's possible that the study you're doing proves otherwise. Because the issue, as I want to focus on this question, is that there is an information problem, there is a transparency problem, and this creates unnecessary conflicts in organization. The professionals who carry out their activity in the emergency centers, Eva Blanco has explained it perfectly, in what its activity consists: they are matters of critical decisions, knowledge of the resources available and their location to address urgent care processes in each territory. Neither the study nor the alleged unification plan is yet known, and all unions are against it. Something's not right. Why is it that all trade unions are against it when we do not yet know whether it is a study, a process of unification or an analysis of the situation to see what is more effective or less effective? More than 50 professionals should travel to Bilbao. Undoubtedly, SOS Deiak has conditioned the reflections that Osakidetza is doing, as you well know. SOS Deiak decided a year ago to transfer its accident coordination centre to Txurdinaga. In my opinion, it is not only a problem of labour negotiation, but also of fully explaining to the actors involved what they want to do, and doing so at the right times, because I would try to reassure the situation in Osakidetza a little bit. –because it's a mess where you're getting involved–, listening to people, listening to social actors, listening to templates. It is a major deficit of democracy and transparency that Osakidetza is demonstrating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u130	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u131	Uria jauna, you have all my respect and my friendship, and you know it. Moreover, I am going to come out of this Chamber today much happier because I really would not have suspected, I am an ex-student of the Jesuits, who was going to hear in his mouth the fifth rule of St. Ignatius of Loyola, which I celebrate, seems to me to be a frankly recommended reading, even from his positions. Look, let's get into the debate. Let's get into the real debate, and the real debate is: a community, a country with 2,180,000 inhabitants and 7,000 square kilometers, how many emergency coordination centers do you need in the 21st century with the technology available? And that is the debate. If it's three, if it's two, if it's one. And it clearly conditions the position of the Department of Security. I'm going to defend as long as I'm a counselor a center or several coordination centers, but always integrated, not separated, which, if we had a debate with the workers, I also know a little bit about the history of Emergencies, and I think you do, too. And the cultures of Ertzaintza and Osakidetza resemble little and the interface that is complex. If it was for the workers, they would have been separated for 35 years and in Bizkaia there would be two, one in Gernikaldea. Yes, I have no doubt. Look, I respect democracy, but I have not been put by the citizens to lead Osakidetza on the basis of the global participation of all of them, they have put me so that Osakidetza remains a reference center, operates on a day-to-day basis and adapts to future needs in what you have to do today so that tomorrow is well. And then, that the coordinating center model we have – and I think it works well – is 35 years old, the same age as Osakidetza, which is 1993. And then, I too thank Mrs Blanco, who is not at the moment, for having taken the trouble of talking to me about assistance...; therefore, she has had to prepare it. He'll have prepared it thoroughly. I thank him for the work he has done, but really – and I say this sincerely – I think the debate – is coming out today in the Basque Journal. Look, you only participate in the government at the moment of a community, Castile La Mancha. I guess you'll call this afternoon to the Health Advisor and the Safety Advisor at Castilla La Mancha to say that you're completely wrong, because it has a coordinating centre and has a much larger territorial dispersion than ours and much larger population. Therefore, if from Elkarrekin We can understand that with a country of our characteristics we need more than one coordinating center – which, I repeat, I will study it because I don't know, there is no decision made – if you have it so clear, then apply, apply, but don't sell me advice that later... No, tell the truth. It seems to me respectable that from his position he comes to defend the workers, and respect them, but that is what he has done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u132	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Joseph Ramone Becerra Carollo, a member of the Podemos, made to the head of Tourism, commerce, and Constunum, concerning the threat that the benefit of the electric police have forfeited their rights." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u133	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Señor Retortillo, Les días. As you will know, more than a year ago, just over a year ago, it was passed in the Spanish parliament, in the Congress of Deputies, and a royal decree was published by the Spanish Government, supported by the Socialist Party, by Citizens and by the People's Party, which regulated the electric social bonus. This regulation, this Royal Decree, 897/2007, has a first transitional provision that is a whole trap, a whole fraud for thousands of people who benefit from the social bonus, and it comes to tell them that if they do not renew their application in six months, they will run out of that social bonus. This means that, after several extensions, on December 31st of this year thousands of people throughout the State, and also in Euskadi, will be left without the social bonus, not even knowing that they have to renew it, because the people of the street, and much more the people who are in a precarious situation, are not up to date with the Official State Gazette. So I am not going to question you as a member of the Socialist Party, responsible for this fraud, as I say, but as responsible for Kontsumobide. Kontsumobide is an entity that has to defend the rights of consumers and try to inform consumers of everything that happens. And on this issue of the social bonus I ask you: will Kontsumobide do before this 31 December any campaign to inform these beneficiaries of what circumstances they are and are going to find on 1 January?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u134	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u135	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Becerra, in fact, the six-month period from which the social bonus had to be renewed by express request, that six-month period began with the publication of the order extending the October 2017 decree specifying the application form. That deadline, as you know, began in April of this year, which was when that order was issued, and ended on 8 October. The extension to which you have referred..., well, there have been several extensions; the extension that has extended until 31 December the deadline, in addition to including other guarantees for vulnerable groups, is due to the decree that in October this year the Socialist Government has published, as it is sure to know; therefore, the deadline was 8 October. Regarding this issue, in Kontsumobide, the budget you have to carry out communication and awareness campaigns – by the way, yesterday the issue came out in the Committee on Budgets – is a budget – it is public – of 117,000 euros for the 2018 financial year. Yesterday I proposed..., I proposed in my project an increase of up to 150.000 euros, and it was precisely to the companion of your group to whom the promotion drew attention, and I said, indeed, an argument that you have used, that not everyone accesses the information and the work that you project in the defense of the rights of consumers Kontsumobide through your website or to go personally, proactively, to the municipal consumer information offices, and therefore it is important to do such campaigns. Good. With that budget, with that short budget, the communication campaign allowed by the Basque Consumer Institute, the media advertising campaign, is an annual campaign worth 60,000 euros, which we normally project towards the end of the year and which basically consists of radio wedges, because, obviously, with that budget we do not reach television ads. Good. In that campaign, media planning was called for on 8 August. The contents were defined and developed by the department's own communication team, in addition to the Kontsumobide Directorate, and in this case a campaign that began on 3 September, before the end of the period that opened the order of extension of the decree. This campaign included several content in the form of wedges: returns, tickets and invoices, imported products, telephone fees, insurance premiums, binding advertising, internet purchases, home sales, consumer arbitration system and social electric bonus. And the campaign was specifically speaking in that wedge, since September 3rd, about that. Well, what have we done or what are we proposing to modify? To increase the frequency of this wedge from 15 November, in addition to including the deadline of 31 December, which, as you know, is new. But the campaign was already being carried out in that generic consumer communication campaign. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u136	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u137	As you know, Mr Retortillo, from 60,000 euros that costs a campaign to a hundred and peak thousand that they have on budget there is still money. But it is not so much the question of money as the question of will. I am glad that you have acknowledged here that one of the issues that needs to be put into the wedges is the issue of the social bonus and that, perhaps – I thought I understood it – the frequency of the wedge of the social bonus will increase. Keep one thing in mind: we are approaching the winter. There are hundreds or thousands of people who will see from December 31st how their bill is increased, it is just increased in the time when energy poverty, which is in winter, suffers the most. Moreover, many of these people are not even going to realize why the bill goes up. They're going to think it's because of winter. And by the time they want to figure it out, it's been two, three or four months when they've been charged a fee they can't afford. And then the electric cuts are coming, because you know that those who are not beneficiaries of the social bonus can be cut off. I mean, we have a pretty big, pretty big human problem; enough to get to work. I would like the radio wedges to actually intensify in the sense of warning not only that there is a social bonus... Your website warns of how you can ask for the social bonus, but on your website you don't say anything about December 31st. You don't say anything. Sure, that's a problem. It's true that a lot of people don't watch the Internet either, but We also have the municipalities. What are the municipalities that manage emergency aid, for example, doing to provide such information? What does Kontsumobide do to support those municipalities that want to give that information? You can do a lot of things, you can do a lot of things. The only thing we can't do To do is to stand idly by. Because there are a lot of people who are going to suffer the consequences. And I know that the Socialist Government, through the decree to which you referred, of October, has tried to alleviate a serious mistake that they made, trying to leave defenseless, through an order regulating the forms, to hundreds or thousands of people, as it is going to happen today. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u138	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u139	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Becerra, no larcacas, no excesses. On September 3, the campaign began with the social bonus wedge. The deadline was October 8. Where was your question then? On 3 September we began to talk about this issue, to advertise it in media, this issue. And in addition we have had training workshops, up to 16, on energy poverty, we have communicated through the web, we have made a blog and we have done other things, and of course we have informed about the changes of the decree...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u140	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question of Carmelus Barrius Barroja, a member of the Popula team, a member of Cultura and the chief of the political department of Language, of the situation of the Reformant as a sports trade in our French stations."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u141	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselors. A few days ago we had the opportunity – I think all the parliamentary groups – to have a meeting with officials and representatives of the company that organizes the question of the rise, organization of the game, of the competitions, and we were exposed to a number of difficulties. We have to say that the ski lift is a unique modality with regard to other sports related to the basket. We all know them. The style of the Basque ball called caval has more than 110 years of practice in Basque frontons, navarros, also from other Spanish provinces, and is practiced with the basket that gives name to the competition or game. Today, mainly in Gipuzkoa, in the Hernani Galareta, and in Navarra, in the Euskal Jai Berri of Huarte, is where this competition is practiced, fundamentally. And I say again that a few days ago in the Basque Parliament we were able to receive representatives of the company that in Euskadi keeps alive the flame of this sport practice and of the organization of the competition, and they have transferred to us their problems, their serious difficulties in maintaining the practice of the modality due to different reasons and circumstances, some of them related, among other things, to the bets, topic well known or linked to the sport of the Basque ball. And in that sense, we ask you whether you intend to address actions and support with a view to maintaining the sport of the ski lift on our pediments, some kind of support or measure or feasibility plan. Yesterday, in Budgets, he told me he was going to tell me something, and I hope so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u142	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u143	Mrs. President, Congressman, Mr. Barrio. Yes, we were aware that the representatives of the Oriamendi 2010 company, Sociedad Limitada, have held meetings with the parliamentary groups in this House, and I was waiting for this question. The last meetings we had with them and the news that came to me indirectly made us think that they would turn to you to persuade the government, and so it has been. I would like to refer to the background of this matter. Aware of the difficulties faced by the company Oriamendi 2010, S.L., to maintain a stable cadre of remontistas, and with the aim of helping to keep alive this modality that has been renouncing for decades, after a series of meetings held with the company we agreed to grant it a direct subsidy of 50,000 euros for each of the annuities of 2016 and 2017. At the end of the agreed deadline we found that the situation had not improved at all, and given the difficulties it faces, the company asked us to maintain the subsidy. And, believe me, the easiest thing for our department would have been not to give them a negative and perpetuate in the Sports budget a nominal aid, but we are convinced that with this decision we would have done nothing to resolve the crossroads in which the ski lift is located. By the way, a state similar to that of other modes of the Basque ball. The Basque Federation website documents five modes of ball play: hand, tool, xare, direct games and frontnis. And within each of them, a high number of specialties that can be played in short, long, trench or free place: hand (four and a half), hand by hand, pairs, shovel, short shovel, palette with rubber ball, leather, Argentinean palette (hand by hand or in pairs), joko garbi passaka boat lutea Many of these modalities have very limited activity, and this is concentrated in certain geographical enclaves. Their survival at a competitive level is very complicated in an urban and social change environment like that of the current Basque society. Their maintenance in terms of competition is necessarily linked to the existence of companies, professional cadres and a system of gambling and betting on the pediment that makes it viable. And their learning and continuity will depend to a large extent on what ball schools, clubs and federations can do or consider feasible, and on the interest these minority specialties can arouse in younger followers. I am from Hernani, the only municipality in the Basque Autonomous Community in which there is a ski lift. The other is, as you have said, in Navarre (Uharte). I have witnessed the year-by-year decline in the number of vehicles parked in the Galarreta car park and the emptying of long-distance buses transporting people, as well as the emptying of the stands and the diminishing of the number of runners. It's not an easy topic. Probably, the ball world should decide and prioritize what modalities can be maintained in a professional category, and surely the future of many others should be realized in an amateur environment. And that's not a political decision. It's a social decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u144	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u145	Well, thank you for your answer. It is clear that we have talked about difficulties. There are several, indeed. The question has come to where we have it now. They also told us that it was true that there had been contacts with the Basque Government and that some item, some subsidy was approved, but that, for example, the 2017 one did not materialize, it was not processed. And, well, you have to see some of the special features of the sport. They are special characteristics that, although there are other characteristics common to other sports of the Basque ball, have special characteristics in relation to the needs of the pediment, with the training needs of the remontista pelotari or with certain issues that have to do with the technique, with the instrument used... Well, I mean, it does have some special features. It must also be said that it is not that I am paralyzed: the other day we saw in the press, in the Diario Vasco And, well, the 2018 championship was presented, and among some of the foundations that also support sport is the foundation – you, being from Hernani...– Orona Fundazioa; for, the manager of Orona himself supported, said, "We lend our support to the rise because it is an intangible patrimony"; now that we are talking about the law, about the property bill, well, there is that consideration. I think some formula will have to be sought. It is quite clear that you have referred to other sports modalities, and other sports modalities are well supported by your Government, by the Basque Telebista... Without going further, the hand (individual hand, hand pairs) is quite clear that it is supported by the delays of ETB and, apart from, by the assistance, by the bets, indeed. The shovel? Well, the shovel, with the Miribilla pediment has been reborn, and also the Bizkaia Diputation has support for this modality. And let's not say the basket, shall we? The basket, therefore, with the plan Jai Alai World Tour the Basque Government, precisely, supports it, with Basque Basque Country. Well, it's quite clear that we understand that there has to be a reflection and that what they ask for as support is not much. Have a thought, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u146	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Did you... All right. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interpelation, Edurne García Hornembe Together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head of Security, the negative consequences of Euskadin's game and sporting tapes." Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u147	I left where I left off. Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, we are seeing how in recent years there has been a marked increase in the number of betting parlors, and with this the number of people with problems with ludopathy in Euskadi, which already stands at 43,000 people and which increases especially among young people aged 18 to 25. The data from the Ministry of Health indicate that gambling is the second case of ludopathy, behind slot machines, as the rates of this addiction among children under 25 have increased in the last four years from 6% to 25%. Our team is very worried about the constant growth of sports popping in Eukadin recently. Ten years ago, no one knew about them. They did not exist, but at this time they have expanded with harmless appearance throughout the Euskadi. The streets and neighborhoods of our municipalities have been filled with gambling houses and playrooms all over the place. The proliferation of the offer of online gambling has also reached our municipalities, placing playrooms in places of special sensitivity, in the vicinity even of public institutes, with the consequent exposure of students to gambling and the normalization of an activity that can lead to addiction problems. The casino, bingo or the famous slots no longer have anything to do with sports betting, which have eaten the ground in a short time at these games. Associations that fight ludopathy are concerned and warn of the danger of a situation that gets worse every day. While this form of leisure is extended between Basque citizenship – a population that is not alien to this activity, which is frequently practiced in sporting events such as races or ball games – the voices of collectives and experts who warn of the danger this can pose to young people are raised. In four years there has been a 313 % increase in sports betting at state level, and it is expected that in 2018 more than EUR 2 billion in bets will be made. Currently, according to the profile of people who go to associations to seek help for gambling problems, they are between 26 and 35 years old, in the case of men, and between 36 and 45 years old, in the case of women. But it's the 11, 12, 13 and 14-year-olds who handle the mobile better than anyone else, those who have a great risk, as they point out from the collectives who fight the ludopathy and addictions derived from the game. It is evident the disproportionate growth in recent times of physical spaces to bet and online betting platforms, both sports and games as well as poker or bingo – to name a few – that so far required moving to some room or casino. To this must be added the omnipresence of online gambling advertising on digital platforms and media. They constantly bombard us with the promotion of houses and betting companies; they coop advertising spaces with the most popular faces of the moment and use sports idols to wake up in increasingly younger people, who have a click on the mobile, tablet or computer the chance to try luck. In addition, these companies are the main sponsors of many sports teams: 19. 19 of the 20 teams of the First Division Football League have some agreement with betting companies for their sponsorship, as it happens in sports such as basketball and other disciplines. The topic says that Basques have traditionally been given to all kinds of bets, and the data confirm the topic. The figures are unstoppable. Last year there were 36.5 million bets in Euskadi, according to the Basque Government's Game Management, which, as the Security Advisor is well aware, depends directly on her department. The people in Euskadi spent almost 340 million euros in sports betting in 2017, with an average bet of 9 euros. A sports bet every second. And we are talking about the data of the three companies that are dedicated to sports betting in Euskadi. Outside of this data are all companies that operate on the Internet and are not Basques. The figure, therefore, is quite higher. And it is, of course, a lucrative business. In the game – you know – as in the Supreme Court, banking always wins. Last year 46 million euros in favor of gambling companies between what is bet and the prizes that are awarded. A business that also grows. It increases the collection by 10 % in the last year and the net profits of the companies by 13 %, and a 80% if we compare it to 2012. The business is served. And from collectives and associations such as Ekintzabide report that young children between 18 and 25 have already arrived, with serious problems of addictions to sports betting, as well as many parents of minors, to ask for help when they find tickets in the pockets of their pants. For Elkarrekin The situation is serious, and it is necessary to take action and address from the institutions plans and campaigns that pale the negative impact of the game, the bets and its negative consequences, especially with regard to the protection of the most vulnerable groups, such as boys, girls and young people. In the case of Euskadi, a periodic survey is carried out to ascertain the status of drug use and other addictions and substances, known as Euskadi and Drugs. Experts in addictions and associations, as well as the analysis made by the VII Plan of Addictions of Euskadi, recognize among the new problems that there is a problem to attend in the chapter of ludopathy as behavioral addiction, especially among young people who access to bets through the internet. The 7th Euskadi Addiction Plan identifies the risk of increasing the problem arising from digital technologies that generate compulsive behavior and dependence, and that the emergence of new channels that facilitate access to the game is a risk. However, there is little action to be taken in this regard. Given the lack of concrete studies and data that offer us a detailed and comprehensive picture of the current situation of the game and sports betting and of the number of people affected by the negative consequences that result from their practice in Euskadi, opposition parties, including Elkarrekin Podemos, we call for the creation of an observatory of the game as one of the first steps to take to carry out periodic surveys and studies that give us a point of departure on which to work to address this problem. Once again, the Basque Government – to which you belong, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia – decided to advance and before the initiative was debated in this House – which, if I am not mistaken, will be dealt with in the next plenary, next week – you passed quickly and running a decree for the creation of the observatory of the game and – of course not – to hang one more medal, which you so much like. What I don't understand is why, if you were aware of the need to enable and create this new organ, you have not been able to do so until now and have waited for others to put it on the table to get the headline and photo that matters so much to you. In any case, for Elkarrekin We can observe the game is the first of the steps to be taken to address the situation of the game in Euskadi. There is a lot of work to be done on the basis of interdepartmental coordination and at all administrative levels, in collaboration with associations and collectives fighting ludopathy and other addictions arising from the negative consequences of the game. Public administrations must take on this situation. The Basque Government is therefore required to take a leading role in this matter, just as the municipalities have a great responsibility to create instruments to protect the most vulnerable population and to ensure the well-being of all the neighbours and neighbours of the Basque municipalities. The following question is therefore asked: what other measures to prevent and limit the negative consequences of the game will the Department of Games and Shows take to protect the most vulnerable population from the increase in gambling rooms and sports betting in Euskadi?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u149	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs García, for this government it is important to know in depth and to have regulatory and preventive measures to prevent people, families and collectives from suffering from these addiction problems that you have listed, from gambling addiction. We are competent in the regulation of face-to-face gambling in casinos, betting parlors, bingos and also in other face-to-face gambling modalities. We are also competent in the online gambling mode, provided that these are activities within our own Community. From our area of competence I can tell you that we have been pioneers in the regulation of the game and also in the adoption of prevention and control measures. Look, from the Game Regulatory Act of 91 and the Game Catalog Creation Decree of 96 to today, we have always stood out for regulating and controlling lucrative gambling activities, to try to prevent people from falling into these kinds of addictions. Now, since the adoption of the General Gambling Regulation, I think I can even tell you that we have better tools to precisely avoid these addictions. For example, tools – as you have commented – as the approval of the recently approved Basque Country Game Observatory, but not because it was an initiative of yours, of the Podemos group, but because it is a concern and it was an initiative of the department itself; because you will know perfectly well that a decree, of course, is not drawn up and approved in 15 days, not in a month or two. It is not, therefore, a question of hanging medals, but of taking measures to alleviate precisely this type of situations. But I will also not hide from you that, in this context of globalization where many of the human activities – and in particular, and you have said, those of leisure – are increasingly associated with the use of the Internet, there are platforms, media, that invade spaces with ease and at the same time exceed our competence. We are aware that advertising in relation to the promotion of the game and access to advertising gaming products is progressing very quickly and is increasingly going on. Virtually all of the online game resides, develops and operates commercially from outside servers, from web domains outside our domain (as it were in some way outside our.eus domain). We are aware, therefore, that there are two issues that often conflict, which are advertising and online gambling, but also that, in addition, these two elements need other control systems. But, having said that, we must also highlight what is already recognized to us both from the world of the industry concerned, from the world of the gambling industry, as well as from the associations that care for people who suffer behavioral addictions, such as ludopathies. In particular, the regulatory framework provided by Euskadi makes the activity of the game develop within updated, important and also effective regulatory and control channels. We have an advanced comprehensive regulation, pioneering in our environment – I insist, pioneering in our environment – that sets guidelines for action and rules to play activities with attention to players as the central axis of all regulation. The regulation allows us to manage a central game register for your knowledge and also allows us to organize through the Basque Game Council: establish those studies, that coordination and consultation with all that is related to the game sector. There is also a technical committee that examines, channels suggestions and proposals that may be made on the subject, the regulatory changes, how they affect the sector and also the promotion of responsible gambling initiatives. Because this aspect, that of responsible gambling, in which the regulation affects so much, seems to us to be of vital importance, because it leads us, above all, to influence the risks associated with gambling, provided that we lose control over it, and moreover, from the dynamics of socialization and formation, from the dynamics of awareness, allows us to combat in a preventive way these possible addictive derivatives, something that acquires special relevance with the status of the player, figure that is also collected within the regulation itself. We are talking about the right of anyone to be identified in a secure manner, the right to be informed or informed in establishments about responsible gambling good practices, the possibility of voluntary access to the Register of Prohibitions of Access, which means that one or a self-prohibition of access to certain gaming venues may be possible. From that same regulatory philosophy, the decree also establishes corporate social responsibility, corporate social responsibility; responsibility that is based, as in all cases, on ethical values and transparency; responsibility that includes a number of principles that always have to govern the performance of companies in the sector. For example, the obligation of companies, the owners of gaming venues and also those appearing on the websites to provide users with information on the nature of the games offered, also about the risks involved in excess of the activity, information about the possible effects that an inappropriate gaming practice can have, thus encouraging obligations and also warnings about what happens when there are no responsible gambling attitudes, when there is no or goes to play in a compulsive way, in a non-conscious way. That is, this statute reflects those obligations. It also collects the corporate obligation to provide its staff with responsible gambling-oriented training courses and the obligation to display publicly information on the rules of responsible gambling in accordance with the text and format provided by the gaming regulatory authority. It also entails the obligation to establish training campaigns, awareness-raising campaigns, preventive campaigns, educational campaigns, including in collaboration with other departments of the Government itself (with the Department of Health, with the Department of Education or with the Department of Social Policy) and from any other area with any other institution working to combat any kind of risk of addictive behavior around the game. We therefore have an obligation that the economic activity associated with the game – and, precisely, the previous question had to do with the game – and the game as a human and playful activity coexist in an appropriate way, coexist in a dynamic, constant balance between the rights and duties of the two parties involved (who offers the game and who plays). A balance in which the north of our concerns and obligations is always oriented towards the prevention and assumption of the game from responsible attitudes, as it is, indeed, reflected, and as established in the Basque Observatory of the Game, an observatory that will be an important tool, precisely, to achieve those objectives that we pursue, an important tool that will allow us to continue working and further deepen the adoption of measures to prevent and control the responsible game. These are three fundamental lines of work in which the observatory is guided: on the one hand, the collection of information, analysis and study and also the dissemination, precisely, of measures that avoid the addiction to the game, that is, the dissemination and awareness about the need for a responsible game. We in the Government are very aware, very aware, of the risks of gambling, and we are therefore taking action. The game is a playful activity that, in fact – and you have said it here – when you lose control over it can lead to tremendous and sometimes tragic risks, sometimes tragic. But people also have the right to play; therefore, we have to strike a balance between the two issues: establish sufficient necessary measures to ensure and avoid or minimize those risks and also ensure that economic activity is carried out in a responsible and secure way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u150	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, it is true that in Euskadi we were pioneers in the regulation and delimitation of halls and spaces. We were also pioneers because it was in Bilbao that the first establishment that housed a betting machine was opened. And yet, it is not enough and it is necessary to move forward and go beyond the current regulations, however pioneering they may prove to you. To this end, it is essential that, since the interdepartmental coordination, the Basque Government implements measures and implements actions that limit the proliferation of these spaces and regulate, for example, their distance from educational institutions. To this end, it is necessary to go further and include in the General Regulation of the Game of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi a limitation of opening of new betting venues indicating distance between them and restrictions around the accumulation of salons and the saturation and concentration of these spaces in the same areas. For us it is important to establish preventive conditions to the characteristics of gambling rooms and betting houses that meet criteria of transparency, luminosity, visibility and accessibility to preventive information, that the use of billboards within these spaces is mandatory that clearly specifies the negative consequences that addiction to gambling and sports betting can produce. Another of the requests of associations and collectives fighting against ludopathy and addictions in Euskadi is that more awareness-raising campaigns be launched and information be included on the negative consequences of gambling in school campaigns on addictions and that they be coordinated with associations and collectives in the sector. In addition, there is a need to increase the support of public administrations for these associations which receive people with gambling disorders and which, of course, is extremely small, while they see the number of users coming to them growing. That is also why, in some ways, public services for the comprehensive care of maladies should be guaranteed. The last study that was carried out – and in that we agree, in the need for the creation of a game observatory – dates back to 2009, and the campaign that we find on the website carried out by the Games and Shows Directorate dates back to 2010. It is clear that further progress is needed in this area, both in the collection of data and monitoring of game developments and in the promotion of campaigns and training in educational institutions. It is right that we have done this, but it is clear that we must make further progress at the current juncture. That's the point. On the other hand, the Basque Government has the Register of Prohibitions of Euskadi, which collects persons who have been self-prohibited or who have been prohibited from playing for some altercation in some game room. From our group we propose to establish the optimal use and compliance of self-prohibited registration with the essential unification of all autonomic registers in a central register, valid for the whole territory and the entire playing channel. In addition, the issue – which you were talking about – of training in companies needs to be addressed, but there could be a need to strengthen training within the security officers themselves, so that they are familiar with the most common offences related to gambling and gambling; in particular, access for minors, legally disabled persons and persons with access to legally restricted gambling. Finally, with regard to advertising and promotion of online betting portals and sports betting companies, it is necessary to limit their presence in the Basque public media. In addition, the Basque Government should commit itself to ensuring that in events and events financed by public money these companies do not constitute sponsors. I don't think it's such a complicated compromise, and I do think it's in our hands and in their hands. We defend, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, the rights of the most vulnerable people to fall into the negative consequences of the game through the prevention and implementation of measures of control and sensitivity of society. More control measures, more campaigns against the economic interests of some companies in the sector for profit and profit regardless of the harmful consequences of irresponsible use, and we will find ourselves on that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u153	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea You leave me surprised, first of all because you told me that it would be good for the self-prohibited record to be intercommunicated and to be at the level of all communities. There is a national register of self-prohibited persons where the records of all those who self-prohibite themselves for any place in the State are; therefore, that is so. He told me that it would be good if in the games halls, in certain venues, there was information to warn about the harmful consequences of the game. I have commented to you that there is an obligation to do so. Well, in any case, to pursue illegal gambling, promote responsible gambling and try to minimize that risk to addictions, the Games and Shows Directorate has been systematically carrying out control and awareness-raising activities. This year, this same year, specific manuals of good practice, responsible gambling for different locals and operators have been developed in collaboration with Asaxer, the Alavesa Association of Rehabilitation Players. With the Etorkintza Foundation, which works with people with addiction problems, an interactive, educational, targeted and targeted video game has been created and disseminated for children, a video game that is accessible on the website of the Game and Entertainment Directorate itself. But in addition to regulating and sensitizing, as a department we are also responsible for the mechanisms of control and surveillance, and, as you know, in the Ertzaintza we have a specific unit, the Play and Entertainment Unit. This unit is responsible for implementing in practice the inspection plan that is drawn up annually from the department and approved by the Basque Game Council. There are data that give a good account, precisely, of the work carried out by this unit that pursues any kind of infringement in the game sector. The unit inspects at least 25 % of existing machines at hotels each year. It inspects all the gambling venues, playrooms, bingos, casinos, their gaming elements and betting grounds. The Ertzaintza, look, in 2017 carried out more than 3,000 inspections. Over 3,000 inspections. A total of 57 sanctioning files emerged from all this work (23 for non-compliance with closing hours and 13 for allowing minors to play). With regard to the control and surveillance of children's play, the department issued in 2017 a specific instruction, an instruction from the Deputy Security Adviser, which increased surveillance with the involvement of other police forces and, above all, with control to prevent minors from accessing playrooms. In 2015 the second White Paper of the game was prepared. It's also published. We have also been pioneers in a comprehensive regulation and planning that limits the maximum number of playgrounds in the territory, marking the required minimum distances. It's published. Don't tell me not with your head. It's published. All this regulation and its application makes it possible to ensure that the situations, the problems, which are actually taking place in other parts of the State with a concentration of large or large numbers of gambling venues in very specific areas and very close to each other, cannot be found in the Basque Country. This situation, as I say to you, by the distances that are established between gaming venues, is not going to be possible here. The advertising of gambling activities in our field is also under the control and competence of the Basque Government, with the application of the express rules included in the regulation of gambling. But I insist that the problem of Basque citizenship receiving gambling advertising goes beyond our area of competence, in advanced regulations, measures, systems, means of control and management, co-responsibility of the sector, attention to the players, prevention of responsible gambling and strict measures to prevent minors from accessing the game. We will continue to work to try to reduce so that the scourge of gambling addictions affects people and families. We will also do so, as we have done so far, in coordination with the Department of Health, the Department of Education and the Department of Social Policy. Because the measures we take we have to integrate them into all sectors, we have to work together and, above all, we have to minimise – as I say to you, to the minimum – the risk of addictive behaviour. And we are working on it and I think there is a good sign of the work done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Beltrán de Heedia, the talk is over. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the United States of the Popula, Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, a member of the United States, made for the head of the Security Department, the news of the edge vehicles." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, one of the star actions of her mandate, of her legislature – and I think that correctly – it is the replacement of all patrol vehicles, because those who used so far the agents of the Ertzaintza were very old and had to give them out and place new ones. And for this, after a long and tedious bidding process, more than 300 vehicles have been purchased by means of a financial lease, half of them with separating mammary for the transport of detainees and others without the aforementioned mammary. When the first vehicles arrive at the police stations the complaints of the agents begin to arrive. I know that the agents' complaints come to their own commands because we are called agents on our own behalf and we are told that they have problems. In this case, counselor, the size is important: those agents who measure more than 1.75 stature – I'm not telling you any barbarity, I measured that at 20 years old, look! And I'm not exactly tall – they have trouble getting in and out of the vehicle and occupying the normal driving position of the vehicle. 175 centimeters high. But it's just that the enveloping seats that come in standard in this vehicle aren't ready for users to wear bulletproof vests, braces and also the security support of the regulatory weapon, so most agents have problems with the use of these vehicles. They complain. Response from most police stations: "Highs, use old vehicles." Okay. In view of this situation, and as I am sure that you will have received these complaints in a formal manner, what I want to know, Your Honor, is: do these vehicles meet the requirements of the tender bases? I mean, are the vehicles that have been purchased within what was taken out of the competition? And are there technical reports – do you give me the same information about the occupational risk prevention service of the department or the driver's school, or the driving department of the Police and Emergency Academy – that support the ergonomic suitability of these vehicles for agents? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u157	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I will remind you..., well, you have already reminded me: we are about to complete the renovation of the Ertzaintza mobile park, and, as you know, also of Miñones. They've been acquired in rents. They are market vehicles that in handling, power, stability and other mechanical performance respond adequately to the police activity for which they are intended. Vehicles which are also subjected to a series of transformations in order to conform perfectly to certain uses which are exclusive to police activity; both technical requirements and processing needs are fixed and detailed in the recruitment bases, as it could not otherwise be. As you can imagine, all the vehicles, all of them (all of them and each of them and without exception), have passed the validation process at the time of their reception in the department. Because when they have not met the established requirements for any of the cases, however small the case may be, they have been revised and the tenant has been required to correct them. With regard to the transformations that have been applied to them, all of them have passed the technical inspection of vehicles, the mandatory ITV, and of course they have the mandatory approval of the Ministry of Industry. This is what I can tell you, Mr Arbulo; of course, the observation that we have finally been able to renew the fleet of cars of the Ertzaintza in a satisfactory way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u158	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u159	Mrs Heredia, you must be satisfied with the transformation of the vehicles, because not for the agents: they do not fit. For not entering into that the gunmen, according to them, have had to design the devil, because it must be very complicated to introduce and take the weapons out of them. Because they don't have GPS, which has been canceled, even if it's serial, and they can't use it to look for an address where they have to go. Eye, the support comes in standard and is cancelled in order not to be used. They don't have interior mirrors. Counselor: Do you find all that satisfactory? Are you going to do anything about the agents' complaints? Or is it just that the bad guys are always complaining against your department's management? For just as those who transfer to you the satisfaction of the renewal of the fleet are the ones who have been in charge of doing all the processing of the purchase file, but we should think of the thousands of agents who spend hundreds of hours per month mounted on those vehicles, who are their place of work, and who do not come in, counselor, who do not come in wide through the vest, the mail, the gun holder and do not come in high those who measure more than the height I have mentioned to you. It seems to me that satisfied, apart from you and your team, must be the brands that have sold them those vehicles for the minutes of publicity that you have given them today from the rostrum, but the agents are not. Are you going to take any action or bother and use old vehicles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u160	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u161	Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo: Beltran de Heredia, please. Beltran de Heredia. Like good Alaves, at least... huh? Look, actually, you've picked up some complaints, as I've also come to: comments, complaints... But they do not necessarily have to coincide with the reception that most of the users of these vehicles have given to them. We have received, in fact, about twenty complaint papers, in photocopied forms from a given trade union, which, if they have not already been attended to, will be answered – they are in it – but I assure you that in the department we have also received many, many positive opinions, positive opinions from ertzainas who have expressed without any remix their satisfaction for the performance of these vehicles. In any case, there will indeed be time to analyse the behaviour of these vehicles, which meet all the requirements of the specification, with each and every one of them, as it could not be otherwise. And, as I say to you, there will be time to study these vehicles, including ergonomic aspects, and of course we will. Don't worry. And, of course, the focus of this department and the criterion is not that nobody bothers to do their job. On the contrary, we work every day to ensure that the personnel who take care of our security work in the best conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u162	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "To ask the question, by Jon Hernandez Hidal, the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Chief of Worke and Justice, about the six hundred thousand penalties inflicted on EITB." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u163	Sí. Mrs San José, you and I are going to be hated by this Parliament because it is up to us to close almost all the full powers of control, but it seemed important today to ask you about an issue that we have met through the media: Labour Inspectorate has forced EITB to regulate the working conditions of 65 workers. Apparently, a file with a large fine of around €600,000. We would like to know your opinion as a Labour Adviser on this issue. We would like to know your opinion on the fact that an entity of these characteristics, a public body, is penalized for non-compliance with regulations respecting the rights of workers by the Labour Inspectorate, under the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u164	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mr Hernández, the performance of the system of Labour and Social Security Inspection in Euskadi has been in line since 2012 with a new institutional reality, which arose as a result of Royal Decree 895/2011 of 24 June on the Transfer of Functions and Services to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in the field of Public Service Inspector of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, and Royal Decree 1712/2011 of 18 November on the modification of Heritage and Personal Measures attached to the Functions and Services Transferred by the State Administration to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in the field of Public Service Inspector of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. The transfer made with effect from 1 January 2012 implies the co-ownership of the Labour and Social Security Inspection Service by the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. The activities of the Labour Inspectorate and Social Security system, for the purpose of proper planning by the two administrations holding the service, have been structured around four main material areas of intervention: prevention of occupational risks, labour relations and employment, competence of the Basque Autonomous Community and social security and regular economy, which are the competence of the State General Administration. Therefore, all the actions carried out in the field of social security, as is the case for us in this question, are the responsibility of the Labour Inspectorate under the General Administration of the State, and not of the Department of Labour and Justice. Consequently, the person who has investigated and has the file is the Labour Inspectorate under the General Administration of the State, and in order to obtain the explanations he requests, he must address the appropriate bodies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u166	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u167	Mrs. San José, you haven't answered me. He tells us who starts the file and he tells us to ask for the explanations. We have asked you because you are the Labour Adviser; and, moreover, in the decree regulating the structure of your department you are told that among your duties is the coordination of the Labour Inspectorate, of the entire Labour Inspectorate, and it would be grave if you told us that you do not do that, that you do not coordinate. I don't think so, because two weeks ago I saw you at a press conference with Mr Loza, a government delegate, presenting the achievements of Labour Inspection in the Basque Country and saying that they had uncovered more than 7,000 irregular contracts; most of them were work done by the Labour Inspectorate part of the ministry. I don't know if those would be EITB's or not, but some coordination must be there and some information must have you. You are the most responsible in our Autonomous Community of Work; then, we find it difficult to believe that you do not have any information about it. The violations we are talking about, in our view, are serious. They are serious, especially because we are talking about a public entity. In our view, today's situation is in addition to a record of a past employment regulation file in EITB, which was, in our opinion, indecent; it is in addition to judgments, one after another, which have forced more than a hundred indefinite non-fixed persons who were in law fraud in EITB to be hired; it is in addition to damages and fines of thousands of euros for labour fraud. And the complaints today continue, and we therefore believe that the violations continue. For our group, of course, these facts would be sufficient for Mrs Iturbe to resign or for this House to request her to cease. We believe that a public entity should be required to have an exquisite attitude, with respect for the rules, in general, and with respect for the rights of workers, in particular. We believe that these sanctions will once again demonstrate the employment policy pursued by the EITB. We are concerned that this is not the first time that the EITB has been sanctioned in the area of labour rights. We are concerned that this is recurrent. And, therefore, we are concerned and believe that the department that you run is going to have to be very high on this public body, because it cannot be that the respect for the rights of the workers in an entity that is public, that is paid with the money of everyone and everyone. And we think you should have more information about it and we ask you, of course, to be on top of EITB for the facts we have come to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u168	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u169	Mr Hernández, you ask me for my opinion on a file I do not know and I cannot give you that opinion on that file. The two inspections are coordinated and cooperate, of course, but each inspector has a technical and functional autonomy in all his actions and we must also avoid them in his actions, of course, any undue influence on his files. Indeed, we have given a joint round, with data, we have not deepened any files, we have given data, and I also think that such coordination and collaboration, which includes campaigns not only at the level of the autonomous community but in coordination with the State Administration, and carrying out that master plan for decent work have managed to get Euskadi to regulate up to this year 7,000 temporary and part-time contracts. Such coordination and cooperation is necessary, and we will, of course, continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-09.u170	Thank you, Mrs. San José. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and fifty-five in the afternoon.
