ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the entire Union. First point in theme list: "The question is, if you ask me, the lawyer of the Eurra Bar, the lawmakers of the D.P.S.S.S.P.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.I. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Mrs. head of departments, the Security Department that you run is reporting between the generations of the border on the purpose of restoring the 8,000 edgecraft. In your term you have made two calls, thirty-five, and thirty-six, and you have distributed the credentials corresponding to these summonss. It shows you the commitment to renew and rejuvenation of the border, among other things. Last Sunday you announced that 300 of the thirty-second promotion margins will be distribution of credentials on the 27th June following the Academy. The credentialls ensure that the good CONFIGizement received at the Basque Academy of Police and Esquires is a step ahead of the practics that will afterwards be made in the horns of the Border. If the figures do not fail me, we would already be talking about 670 credentials handed over to you as a security adviser, Mrs Beltran de Heredia, to so many others who are reinforcing the generational renewal of the Ertzaintza, strategic bet of your department since you took possession of it. But you also committed yourself to improving coordination and collaboration with the Basque municipalities, among other things, to deepen and homogenise the training of the various police officers in Euskadi. The Basque Public Security Plan 2014-2019 itself reflects the commitment to establish a programme of police alliances to, inter alia, promote collaboration agreements with municipalities, which, in the case of municipalities with local police services, translates into collaboration agreements for the use of common work bags and also for the management of unified selective processes for the recruitment of the staff of their respective local police officers and which is being successfully carried out at the Arkaute Academy. These commitments, spelled out in the Basque General Public Security Plan, with their objectives and indicators, have their corresponding legal support in article 57 of Law 7/1985 of 2 April, Regulator of the Local Regime Bases. The Act provides that economic, technical and administrative cooperation between the local government and the administrations of the State and the autonomous communities, both in local services and in matters of common interest, shall be developed on a voluntary basis under the forms and terms provided for in the laws, and may take place, in any case, through the consortia or administrative agreements they sign. Basically, Commissioner, we are talking about putting in place mechanisms for cooperation, coordination and collaboration between administrations to make things easier and better. Something, in short, that citizenship demands more and more rigorously, and that is fine, by the way. In this case we talk about matters related to police security and public security. That's why, chief physician, we're asking you how he's taken steps to get ahead of the Security Department or the commitment he's going to commit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u2	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. You mentioned two leading initiatives to strengthen and strengthen the public Basque police. Of course we've arranged a new generation for the edge. On June 27th, we'll share credentials with the new 300ths of promotion. After September, 380 new border issues will arrive at the Academy to begin the formation process, and we'll open the call for 400 new bordering elements before the year is over. The important thing, therefore, is to maintain this steady planned pace to respond in the coming years in an appropriate way to the retirements that, logically, will occur within the Ertzaintza, with the aim always of maintaining the personnel structure necessary to meet the police security needs of Euskadi in all that concerns us. But at the same time, from public security point of view, it's very important that we're co-working, co-ordination, and homogeneization work with local police services. On 27 July we will therefore hand over credentials to 118 local police officers who have completed training at the Arkaute Academy, the Basque Police and Emergency Academy. They come from the first joint call for local police from 12 municipalities, led by the Department and the Academy itself, and also from the selection process carried out by the Bilbao City Council. And they come to complete the delivery of credentials to 38 agents from four municipalities – Gasteiz, Toulouse, Renteria and Azkoitia – that we carried out on May 21. It can therefore be said that the activity of the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies is being intense in the selection and training of the Basque police. This year 300 Ertzaintza twenty-six promotion officers, 156 local police officers and more than 190 interns have been trained at the academy. And the prediction is that this is going up. In fact, the convening of the new unified process of selecting local police officers has already involved 26 municipalities, many of which have already signed the management order. This will involve the training of around 225 new local police officers, to which should be added the 400 officers that we will train following the call that we will make before the end of the year, the twenty-eighth promotion of the Ertzaintza. We are, therefore, consolidating a comprehensive model of Basque police and also the Basque public security system. From the utmost respect for municipal autonomy, it was a question of homogenizing, collaborating and cooperating within the framework of public security in Euskadi. It's a precise goal, to do it together, to direct the proper use of public resources, and improve the security services of our police at the same time creating new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u4	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Second point on the subject list: The question is, "To ask the High Court of Jone, the parliamentary members of the EH Collectors to the Chief of Work and Justice, the assignment of the Public Service." Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u5	Yes, good morning to all and thank you, Your Honor. Well, my question has a direct connection with the public concession that has been made about the restaurative justice. When this public persuasion began, and before things had been done, or when it was nearly done, we made different meetings; and he told them in those meetings, that the end of this concursion was to obtain a transfer, that the transparence was a very important thing, and that irregularity was not to be found when it was done. That is what we were told, but it turns out that today we find that, said this, there is an open investigation in the Public Prosecutor's Office of the High Court of the Basque Country, in which, in connection with this competition, suspicions of irregular practices are being investigated and that the leaflets of that competition were remote-directed so that specific and certain companies would obtain the best scores and be able to access that competition. The management of everything that has happened, from the point of view of the adviser, seems to us to be harmful. When a shadow opens it is suspected about a contest, whatever the class, what needs to be done is to investigate from the department itself, it's not worth saying that I don't know what's going on in the D.A.'s office, because they haven't called us. And nothing has been done. I should have appeared before this House, I should have explained to us what was going on, I should have stopped the competition. And far from paralysing the competition, when the prosecution's investigation is open and is underway, you publish it. He publishes a contest that was paralyzed in the Bulletin, a few days before it became known that this investigation is being carried out. The truth is that we have no words to say and to know what the whole intentionality of this situation is. And I'll tie that up with something else. There was a conspiracy at the Justice Committee. Some of the workers came here and proposed to you that there was a few souspeas and a few things involved, and then the various groups who had been there said, well, if that's true, let's go and make a complaint to the prosecutor, and that's what happened. Those suspicions that the workers told us that they existed, and that we were told in that commission that we were talking about strange things and that, well, we were always with the fly behind our ears, and that it was all about meddling with the government, because that was the cleanest thing in the world, and that we went to the prosecution if we had suspicions, so by chance, he went to the prosecutor's office and those proceedings were open, and that's what happened. And the question we ask the counselor is what she knows about this. And above all, why he has not paralyzed, he has not paralysed this contest, he has not opened an internal investigation, he has not come to the parliamentary committee to give explanations and he has had to be a parliamentarian, since his work of the opposition, the one that requires him, the one that asks him for explanations and the one that makes him come here to talk about such an important thing as a public contest, with appearance of damage, with appearance of wanting to benefit specific companies and that he has open investigation proceedings in the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. That's what we asked him, he was horrified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u6	Thank you, madam. Mrs. San José, your answer is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u7	Thank you, Mr. President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Mrs Goirizelaia, I will answer the two questions that I consider to be key and fundamental in this matter. The first with regard to the question you asked me whether I think the award for the Restorative Justice Service is appropriate, I categorically say yes. The award of the new Restorative Justice Service is being carried out in compliance with all the legal requirements and procedures required for it. And the second in relation to the workers of the Judicial Intermediation Service. I am sure that most of the workers who are doing this service today will continue to do so with the new contractor. I assure you that for me, and for all those with responsibility in the Department of Labour and Justice, it is a priority to maintain the employment of workers. For our part, and in compliance with what has been approved in the Committee on Labour and Justice, we have started a negotiating line with the new successful tenderer in this regard. With regard to the procedure followed, I will remind you of the most significant aspects, because they were already explained to all groups at the time. The new Restorative Justice Service has its precedent in the Intrajudicial Mediation Service, which has been provided by the Basque Government since 2007. The reasons why we decided to take the step of calling a tender were essentially two: one, that we wanted to take a qualitative leap, incorporating new restorative techniques with circles and conferences; and the other, to comply strictly with the contractual rules to gain in transparency and control of the Administration of the service mentioned, so we opted for the tender procedure, open tendering procedure. According to this decision, the basic specifications, both technical and administrative, were publicized, which were not appealed by any company. One objective we set ourselves in calling for the competition was to ensure as much competition as possible, and I consider it a great success, because we managed to get four companies to participate in the tender. You have erroneously said that subjective aspects have prevailed over objectives in the assessment procedure. Nothing further from reality. You have been able to analyse the schedule of clauses and you will have noticed that in the criterion section for the evaluation of tenders there is one that is the evaluation of the project, to which 49 points out of the 100 possible are awarded. This assessment does not make any overall weighting, but sets out four perfectly defined sub-criteria with their corresponding weighting. In the award file, which can be consulted in the contractor's profile, the technical evaluation appears, in which each of the subcriteria of the four projects submitted are analysed in a comparative manner. The objective criterion is the highest weighting, with 51 points out of 100, the price. Indeed, the price criterion is not the only one, but we will agree, you and I, that a reduction in the bid price does not guarantee the quality of service and are frequent, as you know, union complaints for the effects that the price reduction in the bids have on workers. The arguments I have put forward are sufficient to disassemble the serious allegations you have made, and show that the whole procedure has scrupulously followed the criteria of transparency, free competition and legality. I have to show my deepest rejection of the statements you have made to the media in recent days, part of which you have reiterated here. It is not good for the democratic system that, on the basis of indications and without any basis, prejudices are issued that call into question the actions of a Government because the Prosecutor's Office is investigating. You are aware that the Department of Labour and Justice will work with the Office of the Prosecutor on all requests. And well, for my part, just say that for me, for the Department of Labor...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u8	Thank you, chief of the department. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martíne, with Hiro with the members of the Podemos team to the president, about the State General Presidency." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u9	Mr. President, good morning. In the past few weeks, first of all, there have been great changes in the state by the trial of the ancients, and then by the censorship of Mariano Rajoy. Lehendakari jauna, zer influencezia, or how will recent changes in central government affect the political situation in Euskadi?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u10	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Martínez, yes, has had a change in the Spanish Government, and still General Presidency, the state's General priorities, are in the tramite, and we don't know whether the representatives of the political parties in Congress will alter or not. So we don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u13	Lehendakari, on 13 April you found the pacts with the People's Party to be good. On 24 May, after the usual staging stating otherwise, they agreed the budgets with Rajoy. According to you, they did it by believing that it was right for responsibility, looking to the future, with high eyes and to give stability to the PP government, after all. Moreover, they talked about having a quiet conscience and not having agreed those bills by covering their noses. That is nothing, and it is that you, lehendakari, on 25 May came to literally affirm that there are many parties that support parties with cases of investigation, a few days before the sentence that you have condemned the People's Party was issued. But what things, in seven days you went from defending the opposite to defending the opposite, and said so with a serious voice, as burdened, but without blushing. Of course, it was already, of course, a little embarrassing to continue to support a condemned political party, something we had been warning others for several months. Who was to suspect that two days after the Budgets were approved the sentence would be made public. And it is that on June 1st, when they supported Pedro Sánchez in his motion of censure to throw out even then friend Rajoy, they said it was something meditated, that it was an ethical issue, even that in Spanish politics there was a need for catharsis, you said. From stability to catharsis, in a week, it is a very abrupt change, especially for a party of order such as yours. That's right, it takes a catharsis in politics. The first and fundamental, not to support or sustain corrupt governments. The catharsis that is needed is the one that goes by not asking what about me when the dignity of the institutions is at stake. The catharsis that Basque citizenship expects is coherence, that of not playing to say one thing one day and the opposite of the next day, as you and your party have done in recent months. Today it is a little bit of chance and another bit of his lack of ethics to play with the devil, his government is weaker, and it is because in this House they do not have a majority and they have lost that partner that they were actually ashamed of, but that basically marked their agenda. They were ashamed of the PP, of their last relationship with them, but they were the ones who dictated tax cuts to large companies half a year ago, they were the ones who saved their accounts, those who cut 1 million euros in equality policies or gave a few million to Opus schools, they were the ones with whom they intended to agree on the infamous reform of the GIR. Now that according to Egibar they have broken the word given, now that they accuse them of betraying those covenants that they did secretly, what are they going to do? How are you going to move forward with your proposals? Because you and your Government shut down the possibility of no social agreement from the very first minute. There is nothing more to see about your tax rebates, Confebask agreements or your reform of the GIR. They have two options: a sovereignist runaway with Bildu and move away from the PSOE and the Sánchez government, or let go of what remains of the legislature with certain difficulties. What will you do, Mr. Urkullu? Because we have it clear. We will be demanding with the cases of the OPE, the school dining rooms, the De Miguel case, we wait in front of you to turn the reform of the RGI.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Please, when questions are asked, let them act as associated with the subject. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, after the refrain of permanent statements of interventions right here in the gallery, of statements confusing what the Basque Nationalist Party is with the Basque Government, in any case, I recommend that you ask your Secretary General of the United States We can what he said to the President of the Basque Nationalist Party's Euzkadi Buru Batzar. Look, there has been a change, and I hope it will be positive, after the Gürtel judgment. The legislature was exhausted and I reiterate that it was Citizens who certified it and Podemos also supported it. Now you can no longer look at the bulls comfortably from the barrier. United We can be a key player in relation to the positive-negative or null effect that the Spanish Government's purposes have. This effect will also depend on its positioning. Don't ask me alone, ask yourself what can United We can do to improve the political situation in Euskadi. A new stage has been opened and I look forward to a new attitude in form and substance. First, a new way of doing politics, settled in the dialogue with the will to agree. This time requires responsibility, ethical commitment and height of focus. And I see an opportunity at the service of ethical and moral regeneration, and the demand for political action, especially for the young generation. Secondly, a new attitude to channel the fundamental issues that demand to be shared diagnosis and to analyse strategies to respond to the challenges of the future we face, such as progress in equality, European integration, territorial model, coexistence, education, pensions, essential public services, energy, the environment or support for economic recovery and job creation. I hope that a stage of dialogue will be opened to listen and be heard. This is the principle, the recognition that political problems have to be solved through political dialogue. Look, as I see you advanced, I value the changes in the Spanish Government as a new opportunity. I also hope that the new Spanish Government will be able to better understand the issues shared on the Basque Government's agenda, full compliance with the Statute of Gernika, deepening and updating self-government, normalized coexistence and social encounter in Euskadi. They all have broad support in this House, including that of their own group, Mr Martínez. A new time has been opened, and we'll go on with the RedMikes for interview and harmony, as we always have. We have an advantage, that is to say, a new opportunity to respond to several purposes received in our government program, such as to fulfill the state of Guernica, and to update the auto-organization, to advance in a normal co-operation, to guarantee public services, and to prefer the recovery of economics and physical employments. All these targets are delivered, Mr. Martín, in our program, and now a new moment has been opened to continue the agreements between the organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, the parliamentary members of Laura Garrido Knörr of the Popula team made to the chief physician of the Medical Department, about the supposed irregularities of the Osaldi. " Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Eskerrik asko, lehendakari, counselors. Ladies and gentlemen, this question is addressed to the Health Adviser, but I am glad that the Lehendakari is also present. And here, Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Lehendakari, we can clearly say that what goes wrong ends badly, and that the events that are happening with this public offer of employment is a sum and a follow-up. This OPE started badly, speed in the call. Where are the reports, including the legal reports, supporting this call, Mr. Counsellor, gentlemen of the Government? This group has asked for them and I hope that we will have them at our disposal shortly. When delegated to the VATP – and that goes for Mr Erkoreka as well – what guarantees does the VATP provide in carrying out the tests? IVAP, who are you hiring to run the exams? Are persons from other autonomous communities or persons from these autonomous communities working in hospitals of the Autonomous Community itself? What role have the courts played? Because they seem to have played a rather irrelevant role. We can therefore say that a procedure has been articulated without due guarantees and that a procedure has been designed that has not at all guaranteed the confidentiality of the evidence. The results clearly indicate that it has been able or that there are clear signs of filtration. This is a sum and it goes on. Today we have also met, that it must be said here that your director general of Osakidetza failed to tell the truth, counselor, when he said that no high office of Osakidetza or of the VATP participated in the courts. And today we have learned that 24 senior officials preside over the courts of the EPO. What are you going to do with these courts? Counselor, what are you going to do? Are you going to paralyze the evidence, too? What decisions are you going to make in accordance with all the decisions we know? I am not going to refer to the graphs, I think they are known, to the letter of the member of the Court of Angiology and Vascular Surgery who obviously speaks of only five approved and four casually work at the Hospital of Basurto, to which of the 22 places at stake in cardiology, 22 participants drew the maximum score, that is, too many suspicions that there have been clearly leaks. I will focus on the reaction of the Councillor and this Government, late and wrong, clearly surpassed by events. This Health Adviser accompanied by her Director General appears Monday afternoon at a press conference, after we leave the opposition groups in this House and after the unions also leave. You have been overtaken by the events and you have also had to fail in the very demonstrations you said on Monday. On Wednesday, which, by the way, was not you at that press conference, was the director general of Osakidetza with the director of health care, you said on Monday that there were no complaints and that the evidence was not going to be paralysed, because on Wednesday we already have complaints and evidence has been paralysed. I'm staying here, counselor, but to see what decisions you're going to make in the future, it would be nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u18	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u19	Mr. President, Congressman, Mr. President, Mrs Garrido, good morning to all of you. With regard to the OPE currently under way for the alleged irregularities that are being reported, I assure you that we are the first to clarify them. Beyond the political use that can be made or that is being made of this situation, the way in which Osakidetza, Mrs Garrido, is acting leaves no doubt. Look, we're in politics and, therefore, I'm not going to go into the forms and arguments that everyone uses. You have raised obscene doubts about this rostrum, without any proof of office, obscene doubts; but, of course, you do not believe that everything is worth, except when what is at stake is something as serious as the stable employment of people in a public institution and the reputation of the Health Service, and your party is the least suitable at the present time to put here the words you have put to you. His interest in the transparency of the OPE is no greater than that of Osakidetza or the Department of Health that carries this advisor. I also assure you that we are the first to discuss this issue objectively, to clarify it as soon as possible, and if there are responsibilities, to be debugged, Mrs Garrido, to see if it sounds like it, to be debugged. This issue has no doubles. If you or someone dispose of irregularities committed, we ask you to file a formal complaint with Osakidetza or the Office of the Prosecutor for investigation. We have nothing to hide. Meanwhile, Osakidetza continues to work to ensure the objectivity, transparency and adequacy of the evidence presented. Indeed, a number of files have been opened to investigate evidence that has raised more disputes or, depending on the time that has elapsed, has presented incidents. It has also been reported that a thorough analysis of the consistency of the results of all OPE evidence will be carried out by an independent entity; once the analysis has been completed, and if it is demonstrated that an offence has been committed, it will be channelled through administrative or judicial channels, as appropriate, and appropriate measures will be taken. The courts of Osakidetza have composed them the same people, not physical, but in composition, in all the public offers that have occurred in the 35 years of Osakidetza, Mrs. Garrido, when you also supported them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u20	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u21	I'm not going to tell you what I think, Mr. Counselor, I'm obscene, but I'm indignant. And that you on Monday parapeted that there were no complaints and that you were not going to paralyze the OPE, when two days later, not you, your director general of Osakidetza, has to fail. Are you ready today to clarify the facts to the end and to assume the corresponding responsibilities? Why have you convened an OPE without procedural guarantees, which you are seeing, seeing the results and clear signs of substantial leaks and leaks that have occurred, if you already have prosecution proceedings and Ararteko proceedings? Don't throw balls out, counselor. Now tell us about the doctors. If you are responsible for having delegated to the VATP for the realization of this OPE, you are responsible. And who did the VATP go to, Counselor? Who did the VATP go to? Where are the warranties? Where are the guarantees?...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u22	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Thank you. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u23	Mrs. Garrido, since you're asking, answer me, please. It is inadmissible for you to doubt the VATP, for you to doubt Osakidetza, for you to doubt everything; stop doubting, raise evidence. The counselor, if for something is characterized is because he always assumes responsibility and, in fact, on Monday I gave the press conference and there it is written and I ratify, obviously, according to the steps that are being taken and the evidence that we are having, the situations can change. Look, this OPE is made up of 86 courts, in which 1,300 professionals from Osakidetza participate, and when I say professionals, I say professionals, not political positions, public service workers of the same category as opponents, with the exception of the presidents, who are neither the ones who put, nor the ones who correct the exams, and who are, as a whole, in a collegiate body, ensuring transparency and bringing the evidence to a successful conclusion. This OPE has been summoned with all the guarantees, you had to be somewhat ashamed to say that here. Well, look, the courts are independent and sovereign, they deserve our utmost respect; we trust in their professionalism, training and honesty. I will not be the one to question, without any evidence, the honesty of these professionals, whom I take advantage to thank for their effort, which does not take away, as I have conveyed to you, so that we are rigorously analyzing the results, and if any negligence or infringement were to be objected to, it would not shake our pulse to take the appropriate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u24	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The fifth point in the theme list. Well, first you tell me the sixteenth point is gone for another. Five point in theme list: "Interpologies made by the members of the United States of the United States of the Ui Uruzuno Golds, to the President of the United States, around the stages that have been distributed by changes in the Spanish Government." Mrs. Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u25	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, Congressmen. Well, the reason of this interpelation is, in some measure, this last week, but a little further back from all the political power that has been in the past weeks or last month. And a little to memory, because things go very fast in time, and often we forget them. But this legislature was determined that the General Presidency of Spain would not protect them, he spoke very plainly, and part of the government decided to advance, and to staunch Spain for the second year, for the responsibility, and, well, for all the reasons we've always been accustomed to. The responsibility of placing the Basque Diary on the table is that so many interesting accounts will come to the Basque Country and will always work for the Basque People. With these reasons, Popular Party, the Popular Party of the Guitres, was once again immutated by the Jeltarian Party, and once more became the Prefect of Members. It is true that the sentence, which afterwards had been given to the crime of censorship, was the sentence of condemnation, but it is true, that we all knew, in Gürtelle's case, how things were. We all knew, Rajoy knew what he was doing, and we all knew that, apart from the Gürtel case, there were a lot of other questions that were splashing around in another place called the most innocent party in Europe. And that's a clean thing. Then we pass by saying that it's done with responsibilities, that it's appropriate, that it's exciting, that it's a marabilla, that we go through it in a few days, in less than a few days, to protect a motive in the sense. Well, that's good to make sense to protect that motion. We believe that this motive ought to be protected, that the government of Rajoy could no longer maintain itself, that it must be done with care. And in this we are not surprised at any complaint or surprise at all. It would surprise us if the government of Rajoy was protected against all the pronostics. I think that society of euscal would not understand, and that political statesmen have done well in deciding the meaning of the vote. But, klaro, that happens, and then, in a week, in a week's time, Mr. Sánchez goes in and out on Saturday, and we spend a week at the opposite strememora. As if we were two different personalitys. Rajoy's government correlative and responsibility and all these options, and we're just going to say that this government that's working today and a week ago is fascinating, that it's not Gobierno de unacomposi magnífica, I don't know whether we're talking about the astronaut, Máxim Huert, or whatever it is. But even in the midst of the perception of some of the members of this town, they are despised, and I think, I think, that if one of the members of the government in the Euskalsk of Madrid is here at this time, you would have looked into the matter and examine the book of eucala book, that is to say, with that book of eupscal on which this law is approved. The Erkoe came out on Tuesday, saying that there was a phone call with Sánchez, and that the call had a positive content, so to speak, and that there were signs of hope. And we, in fact, see this situation with much more scepticism from the Basque People gathering. It's true, Rajoy has gone, but it's true, even though 155 is deactivated, that a Borrell has been named for Europe, that is to say, a Borrell campaigning against Catalonia in Europe, Mrs Delgado, a public prosecutor of National Adudience, and the Basques are well acquainted with his activities and his persecurations to the Basque Country. Not to mention the direct knowledge of torture in the case of Grand-Marlaka. For it is true, that Belloch, and Rbalcaba, and others have been responsible in this case; but it is a curious leap when you find yourself confronted with a man who has been tortured, crushed, bruised, raped, and psychologically shattered, and when you decide to imprison that person, and when you don't believe that all that you say about him, it's very bold to say that he knows the cause of the Minister Interior and quote it. I don't even know whether those statements that he made on Tuesday, saying he doesn't like the Alsatsu sentence, and if that's what he's going to do, that's to make the new government, or what we're talking about. Madame de Montero, I think that's what makes Montoro short too, and the Eune Jeltgrinian Party, and generally that cupo that's so well sold in society, that it's done with the Poptular Party. And when suddenly they place a person like that, who says that the cave and the concert are a privilege, and why they have not those privileges which are peculiar to the Spanish or the Spanish theory has in the EAEs. And when that's going to be the head of the OgAS, I don't even know what we're talking about. Then, I'd like to know, because what we see is that there may be a conversation with different autonomous communities, but what we see is that there will be a tremendous amount of blackness, the 155 on or off, the terrible blackness of the Catalonia; In financial relations, in financial relations to the state, there is a minister who can give flexible and bold steps, and in general we can see no means for positivism and such an illusion. I do not know, we do not see that the Socialist Party has any will now to democraticize Spain; we do not see that there is any position in the Constitution, even after the declarations of Marguerite Robbles, in the discussion of the self-generon which we are discussing here, for example, in the discussion of the overcoming of the State to-day, that there is any will to respect what is to come out of it; and we do not see that there is any will to be applied to the Gerasic Government itself, and that there is any transferment to execute them. A short time ago, in the last week of May, it is a meregest of Social Security, and against thatgest which is held up in the State of Guernica. The Social Party voted, so we don't see any difference with its recipe for the Popular Party for this country. The Social Party has its recipe for this country. Then we'd appreciate it if you'd let the Basque Country explain why and why so many positivisms come to you and see what's new data you're going to do for two important initiatives that you've made here. One was appointed to the Spanish Government to bring here all the transfers that were pendicient in six months, to see what you plan, and to see how you can guarantee it for six months remain as a smith, all the transfers that are to be executed by the present Spanish Government. And the other, the second item that this Parliament has agreed to, and it's about the auto-generacy that tables, those decisions that it takes, and those Spanish governments which will be admitted here to respect the majority, and in that sense what fun will do to guarantee the word here in Madrid, if you remember that even now, the composition of the fun would have to make it easier for you to do that, but even if you think that one of the two teams of the M. A.M. And so, what is the purpose of the President to plan all this in some way on the right road and show that this new atmosphere and that wonderful government is really wonderful to the eucalyptic society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ugarte, I don't know if you have a problem and maybe a patient. A problem, because you're asking the Basque Mitch over and over and over and over and you're doing it to the president because they're talking about what the Eucous Party has said. And, on the other hand, I don't know if you have a patient, for your guilt has come here to apologize or to apologize. First of all, in this change of Spanish government you have mentioned, your party took part, supported the change, and accepted the proposals of the new Government, Mrs. Ugarte, accepted the proposals, not only by the vote of Pedro Sánchez, but also by accepting the proposals. That's the line of censorship or censorship. Anyway, in response to our care, I'd like to confirm the Eucomune plan and read it as it's written in our program: Defence of self-requestion, the transfer of the jurisdictions of the Common-wealth which are not available, and the Recurrent of the Common-wealth." We have received this commitment from the government program, and I will carefully read it to you: "To reflect, debate, and agree in this kind of legislation, to activate the auto-residents of auto-gronts, the most comprehensive agreement of the several in themselves, to agree to the principles and principles which will guide the case of change in the case of the legislature." Mrs Ugarte, our programme of government advocates to broaden the horizon of self-government, in order to make up in Euskadi a social space of its own and differentiated, more developed in the economic and progressive in the social, arbitrating more effective institutional mechanisms for the defence of Basque self-government. In this respect, the Basque Government supports the decision of this Parliament which approved a request to the Spanish Government to submit a concrete plan for the full implementation of the Gernika Statute and the transfer of the remaining powers. I repeat, your party voted for this decision as well as Unidos Podemos and others of the Social Party. As you know, I wrote a letter to the President of the Spanish Government at once, and confirmed this request. And we have not yet received our requested plan, but I hope that the new Spanish Government will take care of it and provide a suitable answer. I wrote to the new President yesterday, on the one hand, to convey to him the words of happiness, and to lead him on, on the other, to propose a conversation between the two governments, and to direct our subjects which we have not yet fulfilled. You know, to get the transfer of rights is a primary goal for us, and I hope, I am sure, that in this engagement we shall have a companion in the legislature, because the more we have the protection we have, the more we are able to secure our jurisdictions. Our attitude is familiar, and we will continue to make proposals to move forward, even with the new Spanish government. This, indeed, must be founded on a strong principle, we must work on the agreement, and we shall not begin with any necessary preconditions. It seems to me, if we accept this principle, that we can obtain a consent to update and penetrate the self-generacy, or at least we shall have more opportunity in this new state for the purpose we share. I'm sure you'll make the whole effort to get that new opportunity. I have expressed my personal commitment and with sincere dialogue and institutional respect in relations with the new President of the Spanish Government in order to advance the deepening of the self-government already recognized and also to put forward a new scenario of relationship with the State from the principle of bilaterality and mutual recognition. It seems to you that this position is insufficient and insists on placing the Basque Government in order to enforce to the new Spanish Government the decisions of this Parliament in relation to the pending self-government. And let me move forward on this site from the very beginning of reality. Firstly, I would like to advance my institutional commitment to hold a meeting with the new President of the Spanish Government to discuss the issues covered in our Government programme. In the exercise of my responsibility, as I said to you in Basque, I have already addressed the President of the Spanish Government, in order to congratulate him on his appointment and that of the ministers and ministers, to remind him of the issues that we have pending, particularly those relating to compliance with the Gernika Statute. I am convinced that we have the opportunity to address these issues with seriousness and willingness to agree to guide a scenario of coexistence in the state. That said, you will understand the application of a minimum of prudence – usually 100 days – so that the new executive can assess how best to address the legitimate demands raised by Euskadi. Secondly, I will tell you, Mrs Ugarte, that I believe your question is short if it is limited to "what you intend to do for". Actually, I think we need to be more proactive. It is not a question of passing the ball to the Basque Government and sitting to wait from the barrier. The right question in my opinion would be "what can we do together for" and I think we should move from conjugating the singular to the plural. You will agree with me, Mrs Ugarte, that progress in self-government and compliance with the current Statute is a responsibility that not only concerns the Basque Government, it is a commitment shared by all the parliamentary groups represented in this House. Yours too, Mrs Ugarte, and perhaps it would be easier if all the groups that supported the motion in the Basque Parliament moved and endorsed together – like your group, for example, from the joint group in the Congress of Deputies – a similar motion in the Congress of Deputies, urging the Spanish Government to comply fully with an unfulfilled organic law since it was adopted and endorsed in 1979, since you, with your two votes, also supported the election of the new President of the Spanish Government and were involved in Spanish politics. This initiative would have a significant impact in facilitating the establishment of a bilateral working group to address the outstanding transfer report prepared by the Basque Government, a report which this Parliament endorsed and which I also transferred to the previous Spanish Government. But said which, I'm not deluded. I know that the initiative I raise has its complications, because I already realize that it is not easy to say the same thing in the Congress of Deputies as in the Basque Parliament, Mrs Ugarte. However, I sincerely believe that compliance with the Statute is feasible, because, in the end, we are talking about applying the principle of legality. The end of all of us is to strengthen and increase the auto-gravity, which is what we need to be satisfied with. It is a key, known and accepted by various proposals, to consider whether it is possible to make a great and a great deal of agreement. This is the responsibility of the legislative groups in the presence of the euscal society. I know it's hard, but it's impossible to be more difficult than in the last five years. To preserve the decisions of this people is the end of all, but you must admit that to-day it is a decision to decide between themselves. I propose that you assume the principle that any decision involves recognition, responsibility and mutual demand between the parties. It implies addressing and agreeing on a legal and agreed procedure to ensure compliance with decisions taken. Moving forward on this idea means adding the democratic principle and the principle of legality. Our obligation as political representatives and institutional representatives is to add to progress. There is a need for a pact, a convention, which from respect prevents the use of the principle of legality as an insurmountable barrier to the exercise of the democratic principle. The aim is to recognize the ability of Basque citizens to express their views freely and democratically. The aim is to move forward, without prejudice or imposition, in a voluntarily agreed coexistence that has mechanisms to ensure that the agreements reached are respected and will be respected and fulfilled. So now the key is to get two major steps through the auto-generacy workgroup: one to confess the right which society will have to execute its will, and two to establish the contrivances to ensure that it will be respected by the consent of its engagements. And, I repeat, Mrs. Ugarte, it is the way to promote the self-resisting agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u29	You're a great habit of separating the party and the government, and that's a very interesting resource. But you're a member of the US B, so you're part of the decisions that EAJ makes, and you're in business, or at least that's what we've seen in the press.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u30	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u31	Well, that's a little stick to say. What's the proposition we've agreed to?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u33	It's the proposition we've agreed to let Rajoy go out, and we agreed to let Rajoy out who you're supporting. I don't know why you pick up. I've only asked you questions; don't be so sarcastic, yes, why I just asked you the questions. I told you, as long as you're the boss, what's your plan? And you say, "Muddy" can't work alone. And in that sense, EH Collect has always offered you his hand to work together. But we offer our hand to work in certain terms, namely, in order to penetrate into democracy. On Sunday, citizens of euscals will come from Donostia to tell you that they have to take steps in Autogobernu Poncia and that the decision of the people must be respected. EHG's gonna be there. We think Red Munch is going to listen to that errand too. All the political parties we're here, but it's too hot. I'm glad to tell you the truth about the things you've said. I'm glad you've started calling because you've begun to write, and I'm glad you're deep in the judgment of democracy, to deep down into the confession of this town, and to know that some contrivances agree, and that it's in the respect of what's going to get into the Auto-organ, I'm glad to hear you're mad. And that's not a problem for me to confess. That's why I asked you a question. You answered me. I don't know what he's coming for. However, I still suspect that we can find out from the accounts you're talking about, if we can make demands from Madrid again, make requests and get back from Madrid. And then I want to know if this Discourse will be that we shall have to hear in these long months or two years, or indeed to give real steps, which the Government will also plan, and not so much as the Government will say, "We have come here." Guernica State is not fully developed. You're starting to say that we should present a motion. But we introduced a motion. I've already mentioned in Congress that we also introduced in May the social Social Security, that is to say, the state of Guernica, in order to survive, and the Social Party voted against it. So I don't understand what these symptoms are, with regard to your initiative, what these elements are for positivism. What I don't understand is whether you got any commitment from the Socialist Party and some will from the government in some way or other, más allá de reunirse una vez, because I think that's what he'll do with all autonomists and all the presidents. I want to know if a book is marked. And you say, "Muddy" isn't more important than an agent. But I think it's more important. In fact, one of the two societations that make a Eukong is in Madrid's government, and it's with the Madrid government, the day and the what it is, that's what it's like, here too. And here also a specific pressure may be made. We know that the pressure that EHG can make, or that side of the bank, is not the same today for a mere matter of correlation and mathematics. However, I tell you, our honesty is perfect for us to work together. In the confession to work together, in the existence of this people, and in the confession of the democracy of this people, to work together, in order to agree with the proceedings which are directed to it. I think the Red Muncher has an important job to do, so he's got some kind of work to do. For the first time, during the last four months that I've got to hand over that calendar to this congress, I think that's the essential part of it, and Madrid can't make any more requests. All we have to do is demand Madrid and do the commission of this town. And in that sense, I hope you're in an express way with the desire to penetrate into democracy by the majority of this town. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Ugarte, after so many years, I believe that it was known and that it must be known who is the structure of the Jestle Party, and who is the Euge des Jeltzan Party's Eutza, in the Eutral Party, and who are its jurisdictions. I think, after all these years, that ought to be clear, and what is meant by introducing a motive to the sense and protection. That too, I think, and after all these years and all your voters, what the effect has been and why. You see, in this new period, society demands to spread the compacts, and we must cultivate the agreement between the different political parties, in order to present to society a proposition agreed on, which is placed in the work-group of self-interests. You have had a clear example last week; the agreements between the different ones to set up the new Spanish Government have been admitted, without any condition or occasion. Your party, Mrs. Ugarte, your party has also opened the way to this government, accepted it, offered him a chance. That attitude you've shown in Madrid would also be positive to show it here. If we talked about positivism, it would be positive to have the meaning of the vote given in Madrid here too. Mrs. Ugarte, don't put the car in front of the oxen unless you're thinking of going back. Look, first we come to an agreement in this Parliament, then we talk about the rest. You always try to jump to the end so that you don't have to take on the responsibilities they have. In Madrid you have assumed a responsibility in relation to the new Spanish Government; approving the motion of censure has meant approving the launch of the new Government; you have not established conditions or vetoes; you have acted with the generosity of those who want to open up a new time. That same attitude applies also to the future of Basque self-government and, moreover, to the same formations to which you have decided to add your votes. Now the responsibility lies with a paper in which you participate, and in which you must take decisions and assume responsibilities. You know that Basque society demands a comprehensive and solid agreement to start a new stage and that opportunity exists and perhaps even more viable with the new institutional and parliamentary scenario open to the State. I understand that you have not given up anything to support the new Spanish Government, Mrs Ugarte; neither here is it a question of giving up nothing, but rather of trying, to a greater extent, to seek points of encounter by applying the same attitude you applied last week in Congress. Look, I have put forward a number of initiatives to you: the way of institutional relations between the Basque Government and the Spanish Government, the way of political initiative in the field of the Spanish Courts, and, of course, the negotiation of a new status based on the presentation of this Parliament. These initiatives are not exclusive; on the contrary, I think they are perfectly compatible paths. We can all row in the same direction to respond to this demand widely felt by the vast majority of Basque society. It is a question of not using this social demand as a bold weapon between parties; it is a question of acting seriously, from the beginning of reality and on the basis of the principle of legality, to address a process of negotiation with the State that goes beyond the outstanding transfers. You have mentioned a motion in the Congress of Deputies in relation to a competition, and I make the offer of a motion in relation to full compliance with the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. Our goal, widely shared with Basque society and in Basque society, is to establish a new scenario of coexistence, based on bilaterality, mutual respect and recognition of our national identity from a framework of solidarity with the rest of the peoples of the State. So, Mrs. Ugarte, we must establish the grounds here, and make use of this new stage which has been opened in Spain, all of you, as well as of you, because it has been chosen in the end by your two voices by Pedro Sánchez. So take care of it, Mrs. Ugarte, and by us, EukokM, as hitherto, she'll do her best to get that new opportunity, and get more and better auto-gourements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, given to the president by the Congressman of the Cianova Alonsso EH Collect, "About the retreat of the field for the job and cooperation in the 201820s." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u37	Yes, thank you, good morning, good morning, Mr. President. Last April 16th, a part of your government has raised the dust of the secret treaties signed on jobs with Confebask. It is not a new subject, but it is certain that in the last few days new things have occurred in this subject which is not new. A union has led him to the courts because he thinks that this agreement is not only improper from a political or union point of view, but that it is violated by the law, and that it breaks the union of freedom. You yourself admitted in answer to a question of this group that there had been some false forms about this agreement, but today we ask you to take another step, to admit that there are any mistakes in it. We ask you to cancel this arrangement and avoid starting a new cycle in the social conversation based on equality, inclutive, real problems, and prevent you from falling into the cosmetics. You, the state of your government has turned social conversation into a Confebask monologue. It's time to change.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u38	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, I'd like to remind you that a month ago, even when you mention it, your team, on the 10th of May, had submitted a correction to this legislature, and that in the course of the whole meeting another correction was accepted, which contains the following commitments: One is engaged to interview and social contact, two to regulate the rules of the social conversation table; and three, the Government demands that the agreement should be sent to that table, in which, in the next three years, he foresees a new 100,000 new employments. This is what's been approved by this congressman, and that's what's going to happen to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u41	Well, Mr Lehendakari, you relate or refer to an agreement, the one you have made with traps, because I have referred to a secret agreement. And while we are discussing this agreement, the parliamentary groups were not willing to know what the contents of this agreement were, neither the parliamentary groups, nor the trade unions, nor society, because you have kept this agreement a secret and, therefore, it is a flawed parliamentary agreement, because we were not on equal terms, because we could not discuss the substance of the matter and we had to limit ourselves to criticizing the forms. And the substance of the matter is as bad or worse than the forms; we were talking about outsourcing of services and decision-making by his Government. And this agreement, which we have obtained unofficially, confirms that analysis. You leave to Confebask essential aspects of employment policy: prospecting, guidance, mediation, training and even quality in employment, and the latter, entrusting Confebask with quality in employment, can remind more than one of that saying to put the bitch to care for chickens. Today, a prominent representative of Confebask called on the new Government to maintain the end of the ultra-activity of the conventions, that is, to maintain the instruments with which the employer has dismantled collective bargaining and precarioused working conditions and wages. What you were proposing, and that is why you are cheating those in which we have been deprived of information, is, for example, to set up local business organisations as business employment outlets, promoting the placement of the unemployed through a comprehensive care service, which includes vocational guidance and training, mentoring and staff selection, all accompanied by generous new ways of financing for the employer. This is what you are to us – then I tell you where, then I tell you where – this is what you have been hiding from society. And it also cheats when it says that this agreement is to create 100,000 jobs; in any case, it is to manage the creation of 100,000 jobs, that Confebask itself recognizes that it is the march of the economy and not this agreement that could generate in hypothetical terms, we are talking only about prospective work, this is not an agreement to create 100,000 jobs. This is an agreement to give Confebask the power to manage the tasks that should correspond to Lanbide's Public Employment Service, this is a partial privatization of Lanbide. And we tell you, they bring us on the table an agreement on the restructuring of Lanbide, do you want to agree with us? Or are you going to agree with the employer? Or are they going to tell us, like the unions, that we can sign here? Our group is really willing to be constructive, but every time we step forward, you take five steps to the right, and so it is very difficult to find us. If you want to talk about Lanbide, but if you are going to agree with the Patronal exclusively, as you are doing so far, then, obviously, that is where the agreements will come from, in the employer and in the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u42	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, look, I ask you to act honestly and act honestly, act honestly. Don't come to me accusing me of agreeing to cheat, when the very moment at which this framework agreement is signed, we have an act before the media, where we explain the points contemplated by this agreement – Mr Casanova, I ask you a little respect – when we explain the points contained in the agreement. And the next day, and the same day and the next day, that agreement is reflected in its fundamental master lines with all the explanation in all the media, in addition to what may be the publication of the agreement that the Basque Government itself has made. Mr Casanova, act honestly and do not qualify this agreement as a trap agreement, and you do not take refuge in the fact that you do not have another third intervention in this plenary to avoid saying where the hidden funding for business organisations is. Look, the agreement of this Parliament calls on the economic and social players and the Basque Government to take the decisions that will allow trade union organisations to be incorporated into the bodies of socio-occupational consultation. Both business organizations and the Basque Government have expressed our willingness to make the content of the agreement available to the social dialogue table, as one of the topics to be contracted for its development and implementation at the social dialogue table. I reaffirm my commitment to social dialogue and consultation, and we have been demonstrating this at almost 50, almost 50 working tables and negotiations with trade unions in the Basque Government, in addition to the meetings and joint work bodies, the Labour Relations Council, the Economic and Social Council, Lanbide, Osalan, Hobetuz, the Vocational Training Council. They are effective instruments in negotiation and consultation with trade unions, which are active and functioning. Social dialogue therefore exists. And I reaffirm my commitment to refer the content of the framework agreement to the so-called social dialogue table, which is still to be regulated, Mr Casanova. And no one is excluded from the development and implementation of an agreement aimed at creating quality jobs, responding effectively to the opportunity of 100,000 jobs offered by Basque companies. With or without agreement, the commitments signed are to fulfil them and, in this case, the Government will fulfil them. And don't use as an excuse the framework agreement, when you know that the strategy of certain unions, of which you do the transmission belt, has been boycotting the table from the first day, before, during and after the agreement, Mr Casanova, and before, during and after the operation of other organs, almost 50. I am aware of the union's complaint, and it is my will to continue to maintain that table to agree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "I'm asking you, the members of Carmelus Barrio Barroja Popula team, the president's homage to the terrorist family family. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u45	Good morning, thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Well, we've been able to see these days a collection of acts, between 2 and 7, with tribute to the killer, ETA member Etxebarrieta. We have seen acts of exaltation and homage, acts of exaltation, speeches, treatment of the murderer of something like a hero or a martyr, in the words of those who honored him, a real gudari, a wonderful person, with commitment and struggle, like all ETA militants. This is not pure exaltation. Acts of homage, floral offerings, high fist songs, aurreskus here and there, aurresku, maximum expression of homage in our land, plates placed, we do not know if not yet withdrawn. Let's see, that of Etxebarrieta is homage and exaltation, that is, it is humiliation to the memory of the victim of the terrorist, José Antonio Pardines – ETA's first crime – and humiliation to all the victims and it is not freedom of expression, it is public insult. Public reminder of the trajectory of a murderer is not a democratic or constructive value for our society. Remember your plan for coexistence and human rights. The victims stated last day 2: "It is slanderous, shameful, and especially humiliating for the victims. We do not believe that the murderers are to be paid these tributes. These and other tributes are walked against the flotation line of any strategy of coexistence and memory of the victims." They have already shown it more than once. That is why we ask you, Mr Lehendakari, how you appreciate the celebration of the tribute last June 2nd to the assassin member of ETA Etxebarrieta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u46	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, on 30 January I answered a similar question, and I said to him and I repeat that I condemn any act that constitutes the heightening of terrorism or could hurt the sensitivity of the victims. I told him and I reiterate that the courts determine the authorization or prohibition of these acts. The act held in Toulouse was judicially analysed and followed up by a court order. No prior prohibition has occurred and judicial measures have been taken so far. Yesterday it was 50 years since Txabi Etxebarrieta murdered the civilian guard José Antonio Pardines and that hours later Etxebarrieta was shot down in a shooting with the Civil Guard. My view is that the memory of that day must be approached with a critical view of our recent memory. That day the conception of an ETA which exercised violence during Francoism and which would continue in democracy was launched. Since that day the various branches of ETA have caused 853 victims, and in addition 155 people have been victims of ultra-or para-police organizations such as the Spanish Basque Battalion, the LAGs or the like, or of illegitimate abuse of power. The memory of that June 7, 1968 is the memory of a sad, tragic and dramatic day. If we could start over, if we had the power to change the past, if we could rewrite our story, we would correct that day's page. We do not have that possibility, but a critical memory allows us to recognize what must not be repeated again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Neighborhood Sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Lehendakari for the conviction. But what are you going to do now? I mean, can't these tributes be prevented? That is, in addition to complying with the plan of coexistence itself to develop through the channels that are envisaged in relation to the victims? Look, the plenary of the Basque Parliament, in a session held on February 22, 2018, approved a non-law proposal saying: "The Basque Parliament expresses its rejection of public tributes to people either because of their status as members of ETA or because they used or justified violence. Such tributes are contrary to the defence of human rights and represent a revictimization of the victims." I mean, it's clear. I mean, they can't be celebrated, they shouldn't be celebrated. Next, Law 4/2008, our Act on the Reparation and Recognition of Victims of Terrorism states: "Public authorities – i.e. you lead them – will ensure that victims are treated with respect for their rights, take appropriate measures to ensure the safety, physical and psychological well-being of the integrity of victims and their families and, in particular, to prevent and prevent the conduct of acts carried out in public involving discredit, contempt, humiliation of victims or their families, exaltation of terrorism – a pure example of what was Etxebarrieta's act –, tribute or public concession to terrorists will act in a special way against paintings, posters, etc. In other words, it speaks of a direct responsibility of the public authorities to avoid these acts, these tributes, these acts of exaltation. And you lead the public authorities, lehendakari, and you draft the Peace and Co-existence Plan, lehendakari, and you have to comply with Law 4/2008. Lehendakari, you have to comply the non-legislative proposal that we adopt in this House, that is, its Peace and Co-existence Plan. How are you going to lead, lehendakari, the call to the public authorities, the parliamentary mandate to reject ETA's tributes and its members and the enforcement of this law? How are you going to lead him? What are you going to do with those anti-conviction expressions, lehendakari?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u50	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, isn't justice a public power? I told you, and I have told you before, that it is the courts that determine the authorization or prohibition of these acts. The Basque Parliament has also taken a decision on the receptions and has, in any case, the Basque Parliament's own memorandum also to take part in it and raise its views on this issue as well. I, I insist, violence is not the way and this is the conclusion that the critical memory of Basque society can extract after five decades, it is the conclusion that it can offer to future generations. And this is my opinion on what I think should be remembered from June 7th, yesterday 50 years ago, 50 years later. And I focus on the important, the facts. Our commitment is to the victims. This Wednesday, before yesterday, we submitted to Parliament the report "The right to the truth of the victims of terrorism", a study prepared by the Association of Victims of Terrorism for the Basque Government. I hope that, as any report prepared or commissioned by the General Secretariat for Human Rights, Co-existence and Cooperation, in this case as it has been commissioned by the Association of Victims of Terrorism, will not be questioned as the previous ones have been, to whom I grant the same professionalism. In any case, the Government wishes to contribute to the truth in cases without a complete judicial decision, especially in those that are highly unlikely to be resolved for the time being. This first report deals with three cases: José Antonio Pardines, Joaquín Ramos Gómez and Antonio Hernández Fernández-Segura. The Basque Government will work to deliver to each family a document with the information available and an acknowledgement of the radical and unjustified injustice caused by ETA terrorism. And we will do similar work with the victims of other terrorism in cases without complete judicial resolution. This is the work of the Basque Government: Responding with facts to the rights of the victims and the commitment to a critical memory of what has happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interra, Juana de Bengoechea Strasde, a member of the Basque Potula team, made to the head of the Board of Education, the Acousstic contagion of the schools." Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. The issue we bring here today is not an ideological issue, nor is it an issue on trilingualism, nor is it an issue on international assessments and the place we occupy in them. It is a subject that we consider to be a subject of common sense. As you know, about a month ago, the members of the Education Commission visited some schools in Bizkaia, related to our visit mainly to the dining rooms. At that center we had the opportunity to meet with an association of mothers and fathers that includes more than a dozen centers in the area, that is, that have an important qualification, and an association that is called "Elikadura gure ardura" and they told us about what happened in the school dining rooms. The first thing they told us, that they were getting a lot of attention, is bad behavior. Bad behavior that didn't happen in the same playground, in classrooms, or elsewhere. The dining rooms were a place where truly children had a very high degree of irritability and excitability. And then we were specifically told about another subject, noise. We were told that they were even testing, they were going to eat a mother and a father at the centers and sitting at the table, one in front of the other, they couldn't listen. Well, we thought it was a very affordable topic and then we started documenting about it. And so we know that most of these centers – not all of them but most of them – have terraces, block walls and concrete ceilings. And what's going on? This is probably done for a very commendable reason. These materials, first, allow hygiene, because terrace floors are easy to clean, and allow easy maintenance, enough with a paint hand on the block and things are going well. But, of course, as I say to you, we began to document ourselves and realized that the issue is not only serious, but has been dealt with extensively. Let's see, the World Health Organization tells us that from 55 decibels it affects health. A prolonged period of stay in dwellings that exceed 55 decibels affects health. That is what the World Health Organization says. And the OCU, as early as 2005, made a report on noise in schools where it ruled that the noise level exceeded the 40 or so, which are recommended; although the law usually admits up to those 55, which are the boundary between safety and the fact that health is affected. But we're going beyond that. Continuing to document us on the subject, we realized that Catalonia's autonomy last year already made a study and made some very important decisions on the subject. They did something that we currently lack, which is sonometry in the dining rooms when they are in full use. And, look, the results, which I don't think they have to be different here, because we're talking about centers of a very similar architectural configuration, were really worrying. The decibels in a fully performing dining room are 85 with peaks of 100. And again I remind you, the World Health Organization places the barrier to safety in 55 and in Catalonia there have been sonometers and the noise more or less usual is 85 decibels and has peaks of up to 100. They're going to look like some explanations, which I'm going to give below, which may seem to be left over, but it's to make them feel what they can be. See, a clothes centrifuge, our centrifuge washing machine, taken at the origin point of the sound, i.e. not one meter or two or three meters, but at the emission point, has 65 decibels. Would you eat with your ear attached to the centrifuge? It would be very annoying, wouldn't it? So think that in the school dining rooms of Catalonia, which do not have to be different from ours, the decibels are 85 and with higher peaks, with peaks of 100. So, from there comes our inquiry to the counselor about how she intends to address this, which is a problem, which at first we thought was a problem of coexistence but which, as we were documenting, we realized that it is not just a matter of coexistence, but of health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u55	Mr. President of Parliament, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, good morning. It's just Mrs. Bengochea who agrees with you. It's a noise for the most common environmental problems. But not only in education, but in modern society. It is plain that it is very well received in society, that causes noise, and this causes difficulties; carriers, industrial activities, mascifications, etc. In answer to your question, if we rely on education, we find a double problem. In the first place, as you would have been told in the visits we have made, we know that it is a matter of concern to teachers who have added too much trouble to their daily occupation, to the education student of quality. And on the other hand, students must live with noise, that is to say, when there is noise, they must make an effort to develop their faculties. In this sense, as far as the effects of the noise of the environment are concerned, there is a manifest evidence in the field of education about the Molences produced by it, and the consequences of learning and of psychological processes. According to the Office of the Means, Governors are extremely ill at ease watching the noise of the environment and the health of the population in the world. We have a number of roles of which, among the others, the plan of the act of Child's Environment and Health. As this plan expresses in its chief aim in the district, children should be protected from the unpleasant noise, either at home or in the school. At European level, the adoption by the European Union of Directive 2002/49 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 June 2002 on the assessment and management of environmental noise led to a new concept of noise pollution, with particular relevance for environmental noise. At the level of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the reference legislation is Decree 213/2012 of 16 October 2012 on acoustic pollution of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Focusing on the subject of your question, noise in school dining is a very common problem and identified by the department I run. In this regard, last February, when she appeared before the Health Committee of this Parliament, on the occasion of the presentation of initiatives for healthy food in Euskadi, the Deputy Director of Administration and Services of the Department of Education had the opportunity to address the issue before us today, noting that the Department has been working for a long time on improving the physical environments in which school eateries are located, as well as in the atmosphere of consumption. Being aware of the urban and space constraints that schools may have, however, it is intended to improve the conditions of service provision, making dining rooms more attractive and comfortable. Thus, as detailed in the committee, action will be taken mainly in two areas: to avoid or reduce excessive noise, by means of noise measurements and, where appropriate, to take measures; and, on the other hand, to condition the dining rooms, providing them with a more suitable aesthetic for the educational purpose intended. As a starting point, Royal Decree 1367 of 2007, which develops the Noise Act 37/2003, establishes the objectives of acoustic quality in decibels for areas of educational use, fixing, as you have said, in 40 decibels the recommended noise in the classrooms and in 60 decibels the recommended noise in the school dining rooms. The reality, however, is that many of the school eaters have problems with noise pollution, as it is common for 85 decibels to be exceeded, as you have also commented, more or less habitually, and even for peaks of up to 100 decibels to be recorded. To give us an idea of what these levels mean, adding what you have already mentioned, comment that silence amounts, logically, to 0 decibels; the movement of the leaves of the trees, 20 decibels; the sound of a library would be in the 40 decibels; the traffic in a city would mark an average of 80 decibels; the noise of an escape tube, 100; and the take-off of an airplane 150. Noise is considered a contaminating agent and its impact on hearing, health and quality of life is more than proven. Living with noise is a nuisance for many and goes unnoticed for others, who do not become aware of the sound levels to which they are exposed at certain times of the day. There is no doubt, however, that noise has an impact on the health of all people, and according to WHO, especially on children, one of the most vulnerable groups to such harmful effects. Moreover, according to studies conducted in the United States, 30% of school failure is due to intelligibility in the classroom. Acoustic pollution clearly affects cognitive performance, language and reading comprehension, as well as being a possible cause of attention deficit, anxiety and lack of motivation. Specifically, in the school dining rooms there are the highest levels of noise throughout the day, due to the accumulation of students in one space, which come from hours of attention and silence in the classroom, but also to the normal activity of the dining room, which is per se generating noise – movements of dishes, trays, furniture. Considering all this, the problem of noise in general education installs, and in the dining-rooms, must be taken especially by a professional and co-ordinated method, in order to give an integral and homogeneous treatment, leaving in a short time precise correct measurements. But we've been working for a long time, when the schools themselves asked for it, answering the schools that are the most needed for it. Education The Department Prevention Service is studying the subject deeply, including in an integrated and co-ordinately co-ordinated way with the schools. In the Work field, the Law of Work Dangers imposes certain regulations to prevent or diminish the exposure of noise in the working-rooms. And in the first place, it expresses the obligation to reduce the noise to the lowest degree in its source, considering the measures which are to control the danger in its source. The noise in the restaurants comes from different sources and depends on the local aquaus. However, the voices of the guests at the dining-room and of the elders and workers are one of the fountains. In accordance with this principle of the act of Prebence, and in order to diminish the noise from its source, the prevention of the prevention has suggested as a direct measure in the distribution of the noises in the schools, among others, the establishment of preparation, especially of the students of Child and First Education, in order to enable students to feel and to appreciate the negative consequences of their health. For this reason, the problem of noise in the school dining room must be solved by implementing solutions at two levels: firstly, and without a doubt, by acting on the physical space; and in parallel, and not least, by training for awareness and awareness of the problem, aimed at both adults and pupils. As I have already indicated to you throughout my speech, and in response to your question, the Department has perfectly identified the measures to be taken to eliminate noise pollution in the dining rooms. The prevention service carries out the appropriate tasks and functions, both of advice and coordination, and of monitoring and evaluating the corrective measures taken to achieve a more appropriate working environment for all groups, but we must not forget that to do so the responsibility and involvement of all is very important. Every guide that collects the means of making noise, imposes that it must be understood as a responsibility to success, and therefore the essential tools are the consciousness and sensibilization of the environments more pleasant and less noisy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u57	Thank you, President. Look, you don't know what I'm glad about your speech, because the truth is that there are even times when sources are different and one gives one number and another gives another number. You know we've referred to them, and that's why I'm so happy, because the truth is that when we start documenting we get a little bit tired. So, he said it's a problem everywhere, that's true, but, of course to us what concerns us is this, it's the school environment and we have to work on this. I did not tell you in the previous speech that the Bizkaia delegation, not for hiding it, but because it kept it for the second intervention, we know that the Bizkaia delegation has started to sound some roofs above all. But not in a systematic way, but in some center that, apparently, was already something very unbearable. He said that "epe laborrean", were his words, a series of measures will be put in place, very well. Then there is only one thing, which has told me that it has identified the corrective measures, already we would like to know what they are, already we would like to know what they are. So, waiting for me to interpret this as a support and not a movement against it, as I announce that we are going to introduce a motion, but a reasonable motion, which we hope can be subscribed by all groups and that it will actually be in support. In this motion we will ask you to perform sonometry, which I believe is something that you are already beginning to do, not in all the dining rooms, in some he has said, but that we arrange the fight against noise. I mean, first of all, the measurement of sonometry, and let's make a plan, in the time it takes, because this is a matter of money, but let's make a plan to get involved in all schools, probably those who suffer it more seriously, until they suffer it less. And of course, I have to give him the reason. Awareness, which is the most difficult part, because you can stop or correct architectural defects, awareness is much more difficult, but it is also necessary. Let me give you one of those very pedestal examples I usually give you, but I think they're very enlightening. Look, as you know, I live on the border, well, as many of those here will have gone to that famous Swedish mall that is Ikea, well, Barakaldo's. With great joy we saw, those of that area, which opened another in Bayona, we went. Do you know the difference between the two that everyone mentioned? Silence. In Ikea Baracaldo, without realizing it, there is a level of noise that we are used to. You just walk into Bayona's, and the first thing you say is, there's no people here? Everybody's commenting the same thing. That is, awareness-raising is vital. We all have to talk lower. We can communicate as well. It's the hardest thing. For now, we are going to ask you but as a support, not as a criticism, but as a support, to get some acceleration, for that, that we measure the noise levels and that we go implementing measures, those we can take, the physical ones, to achieve it. And perhaps a recommendation to teachers to start cultivating the culture of speaking much lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u59	Bengoechea andrea. As I have already remarked on my previous intervention, the prevention service at the Board of Education is studying the subject deeply, in an integrated and co-ordinate manner, along with the schools. During the evacuation of the security factors of the schools and schools, the prevention service was the prevention of an initiative, and it started in ten pilots with the main goal to reduce the noise of the premises. In order to solve the problem of the noise in the restaurants, it is necessary to discuss the physical space, but also to prepare for consciousness and sensibilization, both for the adults and for the students. It must be borne in mind that without a suitable acoustic suck, the sound bounces on hard surfaces, and that makes it spread out on every threshold. Thus, the degrees of sound increase visibly, and the result is a highly stressful and uncomfortable environment. Beyond an integral space reform that includes a previous soundproofing study, the noise of the school dining room can be reduced by opting for a sound-absorbing element, fixed or mobile, or acoustic panels, as well as by using rubbers on the legs of tables and chairs, changing the tray of bowl and glass to one of polycarbonate, or even using plastic tablecloths that cushion the blows. Addressing the specific problem in the centers begins with a request or requirement for action to the care of the head of the prevention service. The prevention service is in perfect coordination with the management and infrastructure services, in terms of the suitability and effectiveness of the project. They are frequent performances of the type of acoustic conditioning through the false ceiling, soundproofing and acoustic insulation of wardrobes, change of furniture, autonomous tables and chairs that move to fixed tables and benches that do not move, dishes, trays. And the installation of electronic noise level indicator devices, like traffic lights or SoundEar, which is what I think you're complaining about; this device indicates the noise level, warning when you exceed the limits set. The noise light is a form of control of the level of noise simple, beautiful, decorative and fun, which can be programmed according to different levels. I would like to comment that from the next course it has been planned to install in our centres a system of traffic lights of this type that will carry out a double mission: to warn the students that the normal noise limit has been exceeded and to carry out a history of decibels that is recorded to take the measures. As you can see, we're going in line and we're already taking steps. Not only are there performances in the dining rooms. According to the memory of activities of the last course 2016-2017, performances were performed in dining rooms, bakery workshops, boiler shop, welding, gymnasiums, instrument classrooms, offices, patios, etc. Financially, these actions are provided through the budget line for minor works. In eating space the architectial solutions are practically applied, and by physical changes the noise is diminished. But to be really effective and to have schools dining places that are healthy and quiet for the most mature and the small ones and the training is the most important equipment. The object is to learn to recognize the maximum noise and to enjoy the silence. So, as an additional part of acting on physical space, there's a dactical unit developed by schools in hand. In the presence of the noise, the ditactic unit proposes to perform activities which have increased the consciousness of the students and their sensibilization. And it is important that this instinct of attention enables the students to understand that it is a noise and a polluter, and that they may apply it to other areas of their daily life, in the house, in the streets, and in the days of leisure. To resist the noise is a responsibility for all of us: School managers, educators and assistants, parents, administrations. And it depends on our responsibility to protect students and to control them as far as they can.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Collectors to the head of the Board of Education, about Arts and the Arts of the Arts and the Arts of the Arts of the Arts." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u61	Yes, thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all of you. There is, in this part of our country, a public high-level design school, some will know, but most of you will know not, but it is the only name of ID, which is the name and only one in the Basque Autonomy community, who has in the two cycles three40 students, 43 professors, a public design school that has designed to extend its formal offer and demand, many years of high professional education and study. And sadly, we have known through the press, just like the community in the design school, how the design is betting on a specific private school. And that's why we're asking the bright question today, whether the chief physician says he's making a clean bet for the Public Institute of the World of Basque Arts.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u62	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u63	Legebiltzar presidente andrea, egun on berriz. Mr. Estarrona, in answer to your question, this government is certainly a clever bet on the Central World School called the Art of ID. The commitment to this government is not only to promote scientific vocations, but also artistic vocations. The teachings given in ID Arts enter into particular discipline, the art and design. These teachings are regulated by five96/2007 Kings, King of May, who sets up the general organization of plastic arts and design professions. Our high grade design school was created at the school of 2010-2011, and began its course with a line of high-ranking design studies and two lines of internal design, both with regard to the scope of high-level education in MECES2, which is the equivalent of all consequences. I ID is the only public school in Eukadin, the only public school that is now in design, graphic design, photography teaching and study, and it is obvious that since the bet on the side of the school was made and could be seen in its evolution and dynamism.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u65	Thank you, Chief Bearr, for your explanation, and for your effort to justify it in some way. And yes, I say that you have made an attempt to justify it, because, in our view, and I refer to the facts, to bet on the current school of design is not to keep it in the current facilities of the 1980s with many deficiencies, while a private initiative is given facilities in which the Basque Government itself has invested 1 million euros for rehabilitation. Nor is it to bet to provide him with an annual budget for his activity of 180,000 euros, while the future school of private design, only his town hall, where it will be located, has endowed him with 500,000 euros initial and only to adapt the spaces of the new building. Look at the differences. And it is not to bet on the public design school that, despite the request to expand its training offer, it can currently only teach two of the four specialties that can be taught, as is done in our neighbouring communities, and all because the Department does not push it. It is not to support not enabling the possibility of giving master's and postgraduate degrees and that the student who wishes to do so must go outside of Euskadi to do so. Nor is it to bet that we do not study the possibility of opening a head office in another territory, even more so when 60% of the students currently come from Bizkaia, and more having their department aware of the disposition there is for this. For example, in Catalonia there is a school, which has seven seats in the territory. And that we are not against private initiatives, but that the institutions of this country make a very clear bet towards them giving them all the facilities to the detriment of public initiatives, at least from EH Bildu, we cannot share it. And it is that, behind all this, there is a certain model, a model that tends to privatize higher education. Yes, yes, Mrs. Uriarte, and above all the higher non-university teachings. Here is the case of Kirolene, many of the dual FPs and Plastic Arts and Design, which is what we are dealing with today. And in the farewell of your department, Cristina Uriart, you talk about equality and integrity. And I'd like to know if college 6,000 euros and the model today's model is $600 euros per year, I'd like to know if that's to encourage you to equality and justice. And to conclude, two very clear instances: A private design to open Bilbon's private school, the marquetes, the posters, the propaganda drums, the radiophones, he's making a potential campaign for his licence. Diseinu eskola publikoak, Gasteizkoak, orotara bost busnetan du publiziità. Five buses in Gasteiz these days throughout the Basque Autonomous Community, and thanks to the imagination of the school that, on 8 March, painted an urban bus in exchange for a few days of propaganda for the school; of the Department zero potato. Two: the deadline for applying for admission to school was 21 May to 8 June. Do you know, counselor, when you published something and linked your department to make that request? Do you know when? Before yesterday, June 6. Very significant, proportional to the bet you make and are currently making for school. From EH Bildu we will bring and drive initiatives to turn this situation around in the face of the cowardice of your department.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u66	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u67	Mr. Estarrona, we don't help or encourage private schools, and what the council does will be in his hands. We don't have anything to do with it. And, as far as I know, that private school doesn't have permission for Bilbo right now. In my first intervention, I ID is the only public science of Eukadian art, which is now a design, a graphic design, photography teaching, and study. School has grown up in the following studies: In 2012-2013 he added a new graphic line of design, and in 2013-2014, with the first promotions of graphic design and internal design to begin with the last course, the school's education offering increased by adding two new labels, a cycle of top-level photo training and another illustration. So it became what we now know by the name of the School of Arts and Upper Arts. Harrezkero, eskola drink hezkuntza eskaintza being joan of the age gutxika bilakatu of the efferent zuzendua dagoen eremu professionaletan. Also, faithful to the innovative and creative spirit, on March 2nd of this year his name and corporate image change was presented: ID Arte. Both the name and the logo are the result of a participatory process in which all members of the educational community, especially students and students of the centre, have collaborated. Since the beginning of its journey, the centre has multiplied the number of pupils by five, moving to a total of 345 in this course. I take this opportunity to refer to this House that the time limit for the registration of the various degrees of the centre is open until 13 June. In addition, the high percentage of employability of the different studies indicates that we are faced with an educational project totally settled and looking to the future. The projects at the table cover various areas of action, such as the improvement of linguistic supply or the expansion of academic supply, which we are promoting. So we're in the face of an education project that is absolutely fixed and eager to look into the future. It is, as I have said, a very dynamic school, which is continually updating and adapting itself to its preparations, always for the purpose of promoting artistic vocations, and our wager is the strong and clear side of this school.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The tenth point in the subject list: "Ask me, Joseph Ramon Becerlo Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Chief of Public and Autoberon, to purchase corporations from the bank offices that own the Ark. " Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u69	Thank you, Mrs. President, and good morning to all of you. Mr. Erkorek, we have a big problem with the industrial members of the chest in this town. As you know, the number of that share in 2016 was 2.017 million euros, hundreds of companies were in the hands of the Ark, and Basel led to sell them. Kutxabank has to be detached from its industrial holdings and it is not a bad option to put them in the hands or sell them to the bank foundations that own them. And the question is, is your department monitoring or verifying this process, which has to be an orderly, transparent process that does not compromise the creditworthiness of bank foundations?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u70	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u71	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Becerra, on 20 March I replied in writing to a question you raised on this very issue. In this reply, he announced that the Foundation Protectorate has not received any communication from the existing banking foundations in the Basque Autonomous Community regarding the acquisition of business holdings of any kind. I would now like to add in relation to this reply that I already gave to you at that time, that under the Law on Foundations adopted by this House two years ago, in June 2016, this communication should take place through the annual memory, unless the acquisition of business shares means the acquisition of a majority stake in a given trading company. The last revised and deposited annual report is that of the year 2016, that of the year 2017 will be presented from 30 June of this year according to the legal forecasts. As far as 2016 is concerned, audits carried out in the Government show that there are no significant variations in the consolidation perimeter of this type of entity. Therefore, we will follow the legal guidelines and of course the Government will exercise the functions entrusted to it by the Foundation Protectorate in relation to these as with all the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u72	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u73	Indeed, Mr Erkoreka, it is obviously the Foundation Protectorate that must oversee this whole process. It is true that foundations have already acquired industrial holdings. Kutxa has acquired 2% of the CAF and the BBK has also announced that it will devote 100 million euros to acquiring industrial holdings. There is one issue that seems particularly important to us. On the one hand, there is the question of how they must communicate such acquisition of shares. You have said this, in writing, you have to communicate it through memory, or depending on whether that participation is in a percentage of society greater than 20%, you have to communicate it expressly through a responsible declaration. But, apart from that question, which I believe is sufficiently clear, there is a role on the part of the Foundation Protectorate that is to oversee the fulfilment of the foundational purposes of the foundations. Article 4 of the Foundations Act expressly states that the foundational activity must benefit the general public of natural or legal persons and that, in any case, the criteria for the selection of the group of beneficiaries, including legal persons, must be objective and impartial. This means that when bank foundations acquire industrial shares, they have to do it in a way, says the law, objective and impartial, that is, it has to be done in a planned way and that plan, I understand, understand our group, has to be supervised by that Foundation Protectorate that depends on your department. Because if that were not the case, we could incur arbitrariness, and I do not want to think that certain acquisitions by foundations could create a risk of solvency, which, as you say, has not materialized today, but which could happen. And that also, in that case, it would be up to the Foundation Protectorate to monitor, as well as to inspect, and even in its case to intervene, which we obviously believe does not have to be the case. But we do believe that for the country's industrial policy, doing this process in an orderly, planned manner is fundamental. Because, as I have said, there are dozens of companies that are today in the hands of Kutxabank and that we understand that participations, those industrial participations must be made to remain in Basque hands, to remain in reliable and reliable hands, and that it does not happen that, in some way, Kutxabank is going away from participations without being a process, so that it is a process let us say behind the backs of Basque citizens, behind the backs of this country. Because the law itself says it has to be a transparent and organized process.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u74	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Becerra, as I said in the first part of my speech, the commitment of the Foundation Protectorate, of course, is to ensure compliance with the law in all kinds of operations that they are going to deal with, also banking foundations and also, of course, in all that the legislation establishes, specific requirements regarding their acquisition of shares in business entities. All this, logically, will do so in line with the policies and guidelines of the Department of Finance, which also has powers of control over financial entities and, of course, also in line with what the Department of Economic Development can determine for the purpose. However, the Foundation Protectorate, as is well known, is not a Court of Inquisition. It is an organ, thus clearly prescribed by the explanatory statement of the Law adopted by the Chamber, of advice and information, which has the capacity to control, to monitor and to inspect, but an inspection that is limited and limited to very specific terms. With regard specifically to the inspection you mention in your question, the verification of activities, there is an article, 53 of the Act, which states that it will be carried out when there is a clear record or evidence of a breach of the obligations established by the legal order by the relevant entity, or there is also a record or evidence of inaccuracy, lack of, essential omission of the data provided. I believe that for today there is no reason to believe that there are indications, nor are there any reasons to exist, to consider that there is an objective breach of these legal obligations. Therefore, the normal, logical, reasonable thing is, in principle, for the Foundation Protectorate to wait for it to happen, for the bank foundations to present the annual memory that it is necessary to make, in this case, in relation to the financial year 2017 and from there to begin to do, to carry out the analyses of the financial statements that can, in fact, begin to know in depth what the banks are doing about their participation in industrial enterprises. And from there it does intervene, but intervene and, if necessary, inspect within the framework of what the law contemplates, because I insist, the Protectorate of Foundations is an advisory body, but not the Court of Inquisition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u76	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Edurne Garcíagarmbbee together of the parliamentary laws of the Podemos to the Chief Governor of the Public and Autoberon, about the publique Contraction and the Inconsequences of the Contradictions." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u77	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Mr Erkoreka, we are asking you today about the performance of your department vis-à-vis those companies that manage public contracts and fail to comply with labour and trade union rights. To me as a parliamentarian and to our Elkarrekin group, it seems to us very serious that, with public money in the middle, the rights to strike, freedom of association are being violated, women workers are being illegally dismissed, they are being kept in law fraud as self-employed fakes and there are women workers on illegal assignment, or occupational health and safety standards are being breached. Therefore, we ask you what action protocol your Department has in the face of workplace violations committed by companies within the framework of public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs García, I fully share with you and your group the concern about the possible existence of violations of labour law, not only by companies that are contracted by the Public Service, but also by companies that operate on the market, regardless of whether or not they enjoy any public contract. What happens is that the question that you put to me gives me the feeling that it is perhaps a flaw in the approach, no, because the law adopted by this House in April 2016 in relation to the social clauses of contracting, what it says about the responsible body to ensure the effective compliance of social clauses in public procurement is that the responsible body is the contracting body, always the contracting body; as the law, I insist, approved by this House, says, through the contractual mechanisms expressly provided for in the specifications in each case. In this sense, the social clauses are exactly the same as the rest of the clauses of the administrative contract, they do not have a differentiated or singularized treatment. Nor is the Department of Governance, in this case, a kind of attorney-general who can replace the contracting bodies with a task expressly entrusted to them by law, nor can it establish a permanent monitoring of the contracting bodies. The Central Legal Service, which reports to the Department of Governance, intervenes on two occasions, on two occasions; First, when a contracting body subjects any matter legally controversial to a legal opinion of the Department of Governance or when the contractual relationship becomes conflicting; and two, intervenes in the courts of the contentious-administrative jurisdiction, then yes, the representation of the Government falls to the Department of Governance. But, moreover, we are not legally empowered to establish any protocol in this regard, sharing, I insist, as I share with you the concern about the possible existence of violations of labour law, not only by companies contracted by the Administration, but also by companies that are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u80	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u81	Mr Erkoreka. You and I, as well as all the people who are listening to us, know that there are companies outsourced by the Basque Government and other outside or municipal administrations that are being convicted of violating labour rights in Euskadi. I guess you're worried about this, as you've already told me, but that's why I ask you what you're doing about it and if you think there's something to do. Mr Erkoreka, I am not clear from your reply that neither your department nor the Government has so far had any interest in defending the rights of workers; it does not appear that they have had any interest in studying legislative changes or in bringing legal action in cases where labour or administrative laws are being violated. Nor have they been concerned to cooperate with those competent departments, such as the Department of Labour and Justice, but I remind you that some of these business conducts that I have cited, in addition to being administratively punishable, may also be crimes against the rights of women workers, and that is the responsibility of the Basque Government as the ultimate responsibility for this situation. From Elkarrekin Podemos, we believe that if there is political will you can defend the rights of people who work for public administrations, you can defend your labour rights and also your union rights; those who are responsible for it, like you, must find the formulas to do so. We have them clear and we hope you have them, too. I will give you several examples, where it seems that you and your Government, of which you are a spokesman, are looking elsewhere. The Guggenheim Museum, the Manpower company and the museum itself have already received two decisions of nullity of dismissal for violation of the right to strike of outsourced educators and to pay 6,250 euros in compensation for each; more will come. And yet, his Government continued to inject public funds into an instruction that violated fundamental rights. We can't understand it. EDE Taldea. This group of entities has a long tradition of working with the Basque administrations, including the Basque Government, but in recent years it has also developed a long tradition of violation of labour rights: null dismissals of trade unionists, violation of collective bargaining or violation of the right to strike. And there they go. Residences of Bizkaia, with several null dismissals of trade unionists, with obligation of readmission and sentences for minimal abusive services in strikes and companies subcontracted by the Administration. Cleaning in Osakidetza and other departments of the Basque Government. The Garibaldi company also has in its having null dismissals of trade unionists, among other violations, and there we have it, winning public contests called by its government to other companies that fulfill all their legal obligations. All this for not talking about accidents, with dead or injured persons, in the different works in which your Government or other Euskadi administrations have participated, and in which some responsibility lies with the employers and, by extension, you, for not putting in place mechanisms to prevent these accidents. Let me tell you that we would like the news to be that your Government defends with all the instruments available to women workers and trade unions who defend them, that the news is that there is a change of attitude of your Government towards contempt, none and opposition to any form of trade unionism and defence of labour rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Your time is up. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs García, I can see that you were coming with a perfectly elaborate message regardless of what I was going to answer, because from my reply you drew the conclusion that the government is doing nothing about controlling the social clauses of the contracted companies, at all. I have told you about what my department does and about the responsibility of the department that I have to direct, in relation to the control of these social clauses, with explicit invocation of the rule adopted by this House in April 2016, so you cannot draw that conclusion from my answer. Then I come up with a long list of cases in which this violation of labour law is likely to occur, but I cite cases in which the Basque Government has no contractual involvement, none. He talks to me about other public administrations, as if this department, the one I run, because it had some global or universal responsibility in relation to all the hirings of all public administrations. I understand that it is in your interest to bring a global, general complaint with regard to what the administrations in Euskadi are doing, but I insist that, in the end, of my reply, of course, that conclusion cannot be drawn. Look, you say there's something you can do? It can be done. When you are aware that any company contracted by the Administration fails to comply with social clauses, you have many exits. First, if such non-compliance with a social clause means non-compliance with labour law, it has the mechanisms of the Labour Inspectorate and the corresponding legal actions, but it is also that, in addition, recourse may be lodged, for example, the special remedy against the contractual remedies body, which even trade unions may raise when there is a violation of the social clauses in public procurement, and there is recourse to the contracting body itself, the contracting body itself, which is the law empowered to ensure compliance with the social clauses. In addition, there are more instances in the Government that can receive consultations and deliver opinions, such as the Advisory Board on Recruitment in relation to all that has to do with non-compliance with social clauses as well. So there are solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u84	Thank you, Mr. Central. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the United States of the Pogula, Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, a member of the United States, made of Enplegu, and the head physician of the Police, concerning the reform of their profession." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u85	Thank you, Madam President, Lehendakari, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mrs Artolazabal, you decided to initiate a Lanbide reform and modification procedure, something that we from our group applauded, thanked and extended our hand, because previous Lanbide managers had not considered it neither necessary nor timely political and therefore did not do so. When you saw Lanbide's potential, what he was really doing and what the Basque Government needed as an instrument, because he decided to initiate that reform, we held his hand. And in that good relationship and at that same time, we did have a number of meetings where we were told what were to be the broad outlines of the reform to be undertaken, what were the objectives and what were the instruments I had for the reform. We were explained and told that a series of pilot experiences were being initiated in certain offices, primarily to see what impact they had on the physical or material reform of the means available in those offices, and on the reform of the staff and functions of the staff working in Lanbide in order to achieve the objectives set out in the reform, which would begin an assessment of those pilot experiences and whose results would be moved to the final draft. What I want to know is whether the pilot experiments have actually ended, whether they have been evaluated in any way, whether the effects have been transferred and what do you think of those who have carried out those pilot reforms on the substance and the instruments with which you intend to make the modification or reform of Lanbide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u86	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u87	The President, the President, the chief of departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, you know the reform we have introduced to you. He also knows that all the changes and processes of improvement that are presented carry a series of new developments and modifications that generate tensions in the organizations that are to be implemented and that, therefore, it is natural that these situations generate resistance to change. Being aware of this, we have been working, as you have said, in a coordinated way with the different groups of the House too to have the views of you and the workers and those responsible, and also taking into account the involvement of the actors involved. And on Lanbide's board of directors, involving business and trade union agents, work has been done on this reform project and also, as you mentioned, it was necessary to update management and offer a better service with a higher quality if it fits what was being done, both for users and for Lanbide professionals. And this is one of the priority objectives of this Government. Already this project arises in the year 2014. In 2014 the opinion of the workers, the experts and those responsible for analysing and defining a homogeneous, up-to-date, agile and unique model of care is taken into account. In 2015 we continue to work on this model to carry out a personalized service to users, improving their orientation, training and assistance. And in conclusion, in the year 18, we presented the reform. In the case of the Lanbide reform, what we have done has been to launch in phases that new model of user care, that new model of organization of offices gradually. Initially, the goal that I as a counsellor had was to extend it to the 33 offices, since in the coordinated and participatory work with office officials I was asked to slow down or to do otherwise. So I did and the start-up of this new model was moved to 16 offices. To this end, what we have done has been a series of stages of training and implementation with regard to computer improvements with the aim of fulfilling the objective of the reform. So, right now you're going to work with those 16 offices of less than 10 workers. What I have committed myself to is to carry out the evaluation in the autumn of this year, to incorporate the improvements we see and also to what this plenary and this House considers appropriate in the monographic plenary in which this reform is to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Artolo generous. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u89	Mrs Artolazabal, I have not understood your answer well. The mental process that I had was that a pilot experiment was carried out, that it was valued and then that the reform was proposed to the House or that we were consulted on our opinion on that reform. If a pilot experience is carried out in order not to take into account its results when drawing up a working document, which is the basis for the final reform, I do not understand why that pilot experience is being done. The document he has presented to us is the final document with which the reform is to be implemented. If the previous pilot experiences have not been evaluated and we do not know the opinion of those who carried them out, we can hardly know what direct impact they have on the people who really know the service, and we cannot implement any improvement in the document if it turns out that we do not know those experiences, the result of those experiences. I ask you again, you have not answered me specifically. Has the pilot experience of the first offices been evaluated? Is it known, is it documented, what is the opinion of the technicians who have done it, of the officials of the offices? What do those responsible for Lanbide's offices think about this reform? How can they help or improve our work as parliamentarians to ensure that the objectives pursued by the reform are real? Or is it that you have no knowledge of what the opinion is or what the progress of these pilot experiences is? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u91	Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I must have explained myself fatal. I have explained to you or tried to explain to you that we have had a planning since 2014, that a reform plan has been carried out until we presented this model in this legislature, which has involved more than 50 agents, which has been carried out by the department, together with the board of directors, to carry out that reform of Lanbide, which has been presented in this House for debate. It has been implemented and is being implemented in 16 offices and I have always said that this analysis and this evaluation was going to take place in the autumn of this year 2018, that during this launch of this pilot experience would obtain the improvements that would emanate from what is ordinary work and would be incorporated together with what emanates from this House in what is the monograph of employment. I've always said that, Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The thirteenth and fourteenth points on the subject list will be discussed together: "Interpologies, members of the Ubeka Aranz and the EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, about the apparent irregularities which are being given in the public offer of 2016-16-7. " "The Internship, Cristina Macazaga Sáz, together with the members of the Podemos to the head of the Medical Department, about the leaks of examinations in the 2018 medical experts in Osa. " Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u93	Yes, good morning, everyone. Mr. Darpón, you, before the end of 2017 met with different officials and said to them, "I want a clean OPE." It is because it knows that the OPEs have not been clean enough so far and because it knows the operation of Osakidetza. Am I wrong? But just when the evidence has gone out, when the charges are reported, what do you do when there's enough evidence? What are you doing? Attack. That's what you're doing instead of being careful. And finally, what happened to you? You had to go back because the evidence is there, because the evidence is there. You've had to go back and look terrible because you're being reckless. What did it cost you to stay in study from the beginning? Stay, that's what it's all about. But what have you done? First, we go on with the examinations, the OPEs are gone; then we have three, and then we have four, and then we study them all yesterday. Then what happens? It is clear that there is no guarantee, no certainty to guarantee pure OPE. There is no guarantee of equality to all composers while some are playing marked cards. And what will you do? How can you guarantee all the professionals who participate in the test, Mr. Darpón? With this scandal, as my little son usually tells me, because he usually tells me "love, you're a princess", because I've felt like a princess, I've felt like a princess. 'Cause now everybody's coming and now everybody's saying it's vox populi So, I wonder, why? Why hasn't anyone reached out to put an end to this all-out fraud? Why is that impunity maintained? Why, after passing very demanding filters and filters, high note in selectivity, the MIR, residence, you have to pass through the ring to get a fixed place, pass through the ring to opt for a fixed place? What's going on in Osakidetza? How is Osakidetza organized to prevent this type of performance? But we don't want to generalize it. We want to be polite, we want to be serious, and we don't want to spread suspicion on the whole Osabason, because it doesn't do the same thing in the whole Osade. On the one hand, we have great hospitals, hospital specialities, elites and jefes. And, on the other hand, we have small hospitals, primarys, minor hospitals, and ambulance pedigrees, nurses, Indians. Such behavior [is] in the flesh, And in the Indians [there is] no way of doing [it.] But there are exceptions both in one and the other, and, as everywhere else, there are men who are honest and are corrupt. But our work and your work isn't going down to the personal level as you suggested before, but our work is from political care and political initiative to guarantee a clear and transparent system which will eliminate such conduct. We want him to explain irregularity. We want them to be clear whether they have been or not, so we can decide, because we have to make decisions. If these structures are given, and are common to them, the system which makes them possible must be modified. If we do not change the system, the same conduct will be repeated. And while the system doesn't change, there's no guarantee that OPE is clean. Every exam that's the least visible has to be stopped. Only when there is one, all of them, not three, not four, one sign, one must stop all the exams that are suspicious. Otherwise, you can't guarantee equality. You can't. You can't guarantee clean OPE. And if you don't, you'll lose the little credibility of yours. And there must be public lists. How is it possible for June to have public lists up to 4. And now lists aren't public and no one can see the results that come from them? Is that the transparency? What have you got to hide? What have you got to hide? There's no guarantee that OPEs of specialities are clean right now. A deep remeasonation must be given in the OPE model, management of lists, contract patterns. There must be a profound change in those matters I've been talking about. What's in charge here is the model for Osacel, that's what's in the habit here, that's what it's about. And it's not news, because in history we've seen other scandals and other lawsuits, the Merino case, the Margüello case, this one now. And if we don't change it, then what do we find out? Look, Mr Darpón, regardless of whether you are going to go through the courts, that you have to open this way, even if you have to clear the responsibilities, that you have to clear the responsibilities, if you do not change the model of the OPE, if you do not change the model of recruitment, of management of lists, everything that I have just commented to you before, this will continue to be the same. This is going to go on the same way. Impunity will continue to be guaranteed. You're not going to see clean OPE, and you know it, you know it. And we don't want this to stay in a media scandal, we don't want it. We want to go to the heart of the problem, and what we want is not to wait for professional health, 20 years, 30 years to access a fixed square. What happens in Osata, 50 years old, when people of 60 are forced to present themselves to OPE? Is that logical? We don't think so. What system do we have? What's going on in Osapart to avoid any tests from professionals working on their daily role? Do we have bad professionals? I don't think so. Who did the exams? How did these exams get done? So, klaro, what happened now? If this is common, vox populi But it is also a question of IV.P.P.I., for even in the examinations made by IV.AP, there are signs of signs, and, as you have already mentioned, there is no responsibility for the tribunals. My neuroology test. In the study of Neurology, from one examination to the second examination, when the tribunals are to be there, the court went out in two hours, and went out, what is it? Did you guarantee that all the transparency and criteria of the whole procedure are complete? It's your responsibility, not mine. I'm not the head physician of health. But look at the immunity some of them have behaved with no impudence, the immunity. Besides, in most cases, the anonymima of the opositores is not even confirmed by the authority of the manufactory. Look at the sense of impossibility. This sense of impotency which led to the surface of the Gürtel case has helped to surface everything in the Osciform, this sense of impunciation. They know it worked so far, and they know it will still work, but you'll have to explain it to us, Mr. Darpón, to see if there's any inpity that will be there, that you'll be able to guarantee it and use it. That's why, Mr. Darpón, we don't want a mere bureaucratic file open. No. We've got to go to the heart of it, we have to find out, we can't have a facewashing, and we're really hoping that we'll give you the dimensions of the matter from the health department and from this government, and do it with political care. And therefore what we want to know is what political measures you will take as a public officer, what political enterprise you will take to illustrate this matter, and to end it with all this impunity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Next, Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u95	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Darpón, 56-year-old patient attending the consultation, with a three-year picture of suprapubic pain in relation to urinary urination, signs of micturition and burning urgency. Personal background, we would highlight depressive syndrome, obesity and hypertension. No findings of infection in any test. The possibility of interstitial cystitis arises within the differential diagnosis. One. Diagnostic inclusion criteria and minimum three exclusions for interstitial cystitis. Two. Describe the potassium sensitivity test for the diagnosis of interstitial cystitis and on what it is based. So, with the same face that you put on and the one that all the assistants put on, the nearly 200 opponents of the anesthesia and resuscitation tests that did not go doped and doped to the test remained. Obviously, we are talking about a case, number four, which corresponds to urology and, however, appeared in the anesthesia test. Opponents who obtained more than 90 points in this test were 39, 39, all of whom had to respond adequately to this case to obtain a high score; it is logical to think that these 39 people are not urologists, it is an OPE of anesthesia. These 39 people had been passed the envelope. In addition to this, there are other OPE specialists, OPE specialists with the same pattern. Some have been paralyzed: Angiology and Vascular Surgery, Anesthesia, Cardiology and Plastic Surgery. Why not the rest, Mr. Darpón? On Monday, you told us you had no evidence to paralyze any OPE. Do you have them now? We have only listened to specialists from the hospitals in Osakidetza, who explained to us that in their hospitals several service heads were handing out envelopes, I repeat, handing out envelopes with questions from their exams to their fellow service workers. What was heard on the street is true, it is a common practice in the OPEs of Osakidetza. Mr. Darpón, they quote them in hotels and are forbidden to talk about this by WhatsApp; they tell them with what phrase to start the practical test and what word to underline so that they are identifiable. How does that sound to you? We were given the names of those who were going to pass the tests extensively. We recorded these names before the notary by means of a record of demonstrations and it happened. We got it. Here's the record. Yeah, yeah, I'll give it to him now. Mr. Darpón, didn't you really think there was enough evidence for this record on Monday? ELA, ESK, LAB and Satse have already filed complaints with the Prosecutor's Office, following his recommendation, by the way. The Ararteko has acted ex officio. Members of some courts of specialist medical examinations have joined public criticism of Osakidetza's exam frauds. We have to say, although we initially noticed some reluctance from the Directorate-General of Osakidetza, it has been quick this time, we do not know whether because he is really concerned or because he has jumped to the media, but he has opened several administrative files, because what is going on, these investigative processes, and now also that of the external person he has appointed. The OPEs of the different tests of specialist doctors, seven specifically under suspicion, must be paralysed, investigated and suspended in a precautionary manner, while the external expert who has hired analyses each of the OPEs. But we insist that they are not all OPEs. Only medical specialists should be paralyzed. We believe that the more than 1,000 members of the various OPE 2018 courts should be respected, as well as the 83,000 opposition persons who have already been examined or are in the process of being examined at this time. But the tests under suspicion that affect several hundred medical specialists, I repeat, medical specialists, must be investigated and suspended. It is a good opportunity, moreover, Mr Darpón, to analyse and discuss seriously the lack of transparency and democracy of our hospitals, in the OSI and in the overall decision-making process of Osakidetza. It seems that the culture of sharing decisions, democratic culture has not yet reached some places in hospitals, outpatient clinics and health centres. It is ethics that must characterize the work of the professionals of Osakidetza. Many service chiefs have to abandon that attitude of true taifas kings in their services, taifas kings who favor the distribution of prebendas according to the discipline of their subordinates and develop cultures where criticism is poorly seen and dependence on the chief is what matters to progress as professionals. We know that the most outraged people are the chiefs and chiefs of service, honest and ethical, who are the prestige of every day, of good scientific doing and consultations, hospitalization units and operating rooms. Not everyone participates in the customer corruption detected in Osakidetza, Mr. Darpón. It is not possible that this has happened without a good number of senior Osakidetza officials either consenting to it or collaborating with the screening process, but not all of them. We propose that the ongoing investigation should come to its final consequences and identify appropriate responsibilities. We have a pending account with all those people who studied for one of the specialists' OPEs and did not have any opportunity, no opportunity, because they have not been guaranteed the basic right, which is of access to the public service, equal opportunities, I repeat, Mr Darpón, equal opportunities. This historical practice of customer corruption in the opposition of Osakidetza has caused our public health system to lose a continuous loss of professionals, young people with talent and without the possibility of working in the public system, and surely finding opportunity in the private sector. We're running out of the best, Mr. Darpón. Counselor, do you have any decision made by the Department of Health to end the leaking of OPE exams from Osakidetza? That's all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mr. Darpón, it's yours to answer, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u97	Thank you, Mr. President, Congressman, Mr. President, Mrs. Ubera and Mrs. Macazaga, good morning again. First of all, I want to make it clear: we are the first interested in developing this EPE with all its transparency and all its guarantees. We're the ones who want to get this clear as soon as possible, and we're the ones who're taking the measurements. As you all know, this is neither the first OPE of Osakidetza nor – let me tell you, Mrs Ubera and Mrs Macazaga – the last one we are going to call. In fact, Osakidetza is characterized by being one of the public administrations, both of Euskadi and of the State, which has regularly and for a longer time made public offers of employment, specifically, since 1995, eight OPEs called for, because we are in favour of public employment and you too should be. In order to understand the complexity of the process of a public offer of employment in Osakidetza, I think it is appropriate to explain the whole process so that you can understand the volume of machinery put in place for the development of the tests and the thorough work carried out in order to guarantee, Mrs Macazaga, transparency and equal opportunities for all registered persons. As I said earlier, we are facing one of the largest OPEs in the history of Euskadi, with a total of 3,335 places, 86 different professional categories and about 96,000 registered persons, 20% not residing in Euskadi. The figures alone reflect the magnitude of the process. A total of 86 courts, independent and sovereign collegiate bodies, involving 1,376 professionals from Osakidetza, have been set up to ensure the transparency and proper development of the examinations, persons who are professionals, civil servants and who do not in any way deserve, at least for the time being, to question their honorability. The courts are composed of eight persons: a president, usually a director or deputy director of one of the organizations of Osakidetza; a professional management position appointed through a public competition, not a political office; he is a secretary to a technical officer of the Administration, usually of legal profile; and six vocals, professional and independent, with a place in ownership and of the same category and specialty as the persons opposing and one of the vocals, Mrs Macazaga and Mrs Ubera, on the proposal of the signing unions of the public offer of employment. In each of the courts that you, it seems that without arguments, questions. There is no high office in the courts, either from the Department of Health or from the Osakidetza Directorate-General or from the VATP. And believe me, Mrs. Macazaga, we're dealing with something very serious. You wouldn't laugh so much. It's a very serious thing. In order to provide the necessary guarantees of integrity, confidentiality, rigour, fairness and transparency, new measures have also been taken in this OPE, new measures with respect to previous OPEs. I would like to highlight the following: For the first time the courts are even, because we are very aware that the heads of service, by age, in many cases have another... Therefore, many people have entered all those courts that had never been to any of the previous OPEs. Moreover, also for the first time and in order to strengthen transparency and objectivity – do not doubt it – it has been established that the first test of all categories is not put by the courts, and it has been the VATP, through professionals of prestige, fruit of the pre-agreement of the Sectoral Health Table of June 2017, then, agreed with the unions of the Sectoral Table, Mrs Macazaga, because also now the unions bother you, but no, with agreement with the unions. And it was put in place to better guarantee the process. Each of these professionals who have obtained these examinations has signed a confidentiality clause and knows perfectly well what their responsibilities are. A security protocol has also been established which includes, among other measures, the custody of the evidence in a security room which the VATP has for this purpose until it is handed over to Osakidetza hours before the test is held. The examinations have been handed over to the court two hours prior to their conduct and to the place where the examinations were carried out, reminding all members of the courts of the obligation to ensure the confidentiality of the proceedings and that they are ultimately responsible for the adequacy and transparency of the proceedings. With regard to the correction of the first tests, an automated reading system has been carried out which ensures objectivity, immediacy and complete transparency of the process and, after the test, the questions of the examination and the reply templates have been published, so that each opponent who is in possession of a copy of his examination can carry out a self-assessment and be able to claim in case of doubt or disagreement. And for the first time, this exercise that has not been put by the courts amounts to 65% of the total note, 65% of the total note. In some hospital medical specialties, where due to the specificity of clinical practice, in addition to the theoretical test there is a practical test. And believe me, we have not been able to invent this in Osakidetza, it has been done in all the previous OPEs and it is done in all the health services of the state and in many outside the state. The latter test scores only 35 % and has been prepared by the qualifying court or by whom it has determined. This test usually consists of a practical test, usually of clinical cases. It is noteworthy that despite the magnitude of the OPE and more than 10,000 people examined, only 58 complaints have been formally received in Osakidetza, all concerning specific questions formulated in the first tests, the theoretical exams; 58 complaints exist, Mrs Macazaga. However, and since we are the first stakeholders and responsible for ensuring the objectivity, transparency and adequacy of the evidence presented, in order to ensure equal opportunities, it was the board of directors of Osakidetza, in a meeting held on Monday, 4 June, that commissioned a thorough and independent analysis of the results of all the tests of the OPE, of the 67 tests carried out and those missing, of the hospital specialists, of the primary care specialists and of the whole of the tests of the OPE, because we are not going to extend a mantle of prejudice. In addition, Osakidetza has opened information files sequentially when it has had indications and considered it relevant. To date, there are four categories that are being investigated: Angiology and Vascular Surgery, Anesthesia, Cardiology and Plastic Surgery. The administrative actions of these specialties have been paralysed preventively, and we have no element of judgment to paralyze the rest. However, all categories will be analysed and, if deemed appropriate on the basis of the results of the relevant coherence study, will be carried out. We are not going to stop doing anything that we think can shed light on any suspicion of lack of transparency in any of the steps taken, nothing. The current OPE of Osakidetza aims to give stability to 95% of the staff, they will therefore understand that for us it is a very serious matter. However, we will not tolerate unsubstantiated accusations either. We are responsible for bringing this OPE to a successful conclusion in which so many thousands of people have put their hopes, and you can be sure, and Mrs Ubera too, that we are going to respond routinely to both falsehoods and irregularities, if they are proved. Osakidetza and the VATP have been working for many months to ensure that the tests are carried out with due guarantees, and I can assure you that no one has more interest than us in this public offer of employment being developed with complete transparency and equity. Mrs Ubera, I understand that you give credibility to the reports that have been produced by certain trade unions. Believe me, I understand that, although they are based on assumptions or suspicions. Do not doubt that we are acting swiftly and diligently, and we will continue to do so. We share with you that the process needs clarification, by all opponents and by the good name of the public health system. It's not going to shake our hand, whoever it is, if there's any irregularities. It has called for seriousness and rigour in the analysis and investigation of alleged irregularities, and that is precisely what we are doing and what we have committed ourselves to. If anyone has any signs of irregularity, please report it. Anyway, the investigation inside of us is still in progress. If there is any irregularity, it will be cleared up and taken care of. Look, you know we've acted with immediacy and diligence. It is important to note that from the very moment Osakidetza had recorded a letter submitted by a member of the court of one of the categories, at the time it had recorded he immediately referred the letter to the relevant court, urging the holding of an extraordinary session. The session was held on Friday, 1 June, to analyse the content of the paper submitted and the suitability of the evidence provided. In view of the possible existence of reasonable doubt as to the course of the proceedings, Osakidetza opened the first of the information files we have noticed today. But, believe me, I will act from the prudence and wisdom of a public offer of employment in which examinations of different categories are still pending. I suppose you will share with me that it is neither fair nor opportune to paralyse a public offer of employment that affects thousands and thousands of people, a public offer of employment in which the examinations of more than 85,000 people are lacking. Yesterday a meeting of the follow-up committee of the OPE, in which Osakidetza and the trade unions, the signatories of the public offer of employment, took place. Both Osakidetza and the trade unions agreed on the need to continue the examination of the pending categories according to the timetable, because they did not aim for the pending tests at any risk of incidence, Mrs Macazaga and Mrs Ubera. And Mr Darpón does not say that yesterday, the committee on the monitoring of the public offer of employment with Osakidetza and the signing unions said that, because we too know how to talk to the professionals and the unions. So EPE will continue. The remaining examination will remain normal, so it was decided yesterday at the tracking committee with the unions. And, I believe, the noise that comes about EPE doesn't do any good either to the jury or to those who are going to study. I'm telling you, I don't really think that people who participate in courts of justice or people who are introduced to this EPE or present to it are worth it. The health department, Osapartics, and IVAPs have taken every measure to make EPE's trial complete with every guarantee. Please, I ask you to behave respectfully and with responsibilities as well. I also want to ask you for rigour and respect. I respect not the adviser, who is the same, he is already accustomed to politics, respect for the professionals involved in the development of the current OPE, those who are in the courts and those who oppose, perfectly trained and honest people as long as no one proves otherwise, to whom I take advantage to thank his work and professionalism. We want to publicly protect the professional members of this EPE's jury. We do not question their independence, their professionality, and their independence. You yourself, Mrs Macazaga, in your appearance before the media on Monday, stated that you did not question the actions of the courts and their professionals. What were you questioning then? When the only suspicions raised are of screening of the examinations, and these have been made and corrected exclusively by experts hired by the VATP under confidentiality clause and members of the courts, therefore, without any intervention of the political office. Where do you see political plug-in? We are going to continue to act responsibly and transparently, which is the very important responsibility I have and which I assume, and that is also what we call for from the other actors, trade union organisations and political groups. We ask that the rest of the agents act with the same responsibility, rigour and transparency that we are required to do. I do not want to fail to convey my utmost respect and send a message of tranquillity to the thousands and thousands of opponents who are participating in the call for the public offer of employment. From here I assure you that the whole process will continue as planned. In addition to the proceedings that have been initiated, we will cooperate in a transparent manner with Ararteko and the Office of the Prosecutor if they so consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u98	Thank you, chief physician. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u99	Mr Darpón, you are not prepared to guarantee anything. No, it's not. Begira, ahazten zaizu arduradun politiciko nagusia zarela, Osasun Sailekoa, Osakidetzakoa, eta beraz, arduradun nagusia zurara, eta, of course, you have shown no interest, no wisdom, no prudence. For if you really had to express the meaning, reason, interest, from the beginning, with only one hint, it is enough that if you have the minimum, you can stop your examinations in the places where the omens were, and make that investigation. And what have you done? To give up everything, to deny everything, on the defensive, on the offensive. And today, your paper was here, the denial, the lie. There's proof, what proof do you need? You give us proof, prove it, make sure it's all clean. It's not like that, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u100	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u101	Look, the exams are open, they've been open. Opens have appeared.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u102	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u103	How'd the exams go? How did the jury act? How did the leaks work out? And then you tell us on the evidence that we've shown our evidence on the suspects? No. The report was based on the results of those lists you've hidden based on. Open the lists, leave transparency on all data hands. Why don't you guys do that? Is that your transparency? Is that your responsibility, responsibility? It seems to us that you act lightly, that you act lightly. And here's the main question, you have to guarantee it and continue to guarantee that impunity? You have to answer that. You must answer that, because in the meantime, as long as this incendiary does not end, there is no guarantee that the possibility of all who participate in the examination is to ensure equality, there is no guarantee. And by respect of respect for these professionals, you have so much to say, you have to do everything as you ought to explain, to be responsible, to be political, because both of them are judicial, and two are a political profession. And without political action, both are not sufficient for judicial and administrative action. And both are supplementary and both are necessary with the judicial and vice versa. So you'll have to take responsibility here, won't you? And we don't see you're taking responsibility in this matter. You've made a escape, you've got to kick and run, escape. That's what you're doing. And we don't want this problem boom. But no, it's what we want to get a break from now on, close the door to all such behaviors. That's what we're looking for, what we haven't done before, and it's like everybody else knew. If everyone knew, why hadn't they known before? Of fear? No, not the one you're talking about, when you report evidence with the names, because that's the effect for these people and professionals. Because it was curious, the member of a court accused him of it, and now he's thrown back again. That's funny. Did he get the towel? Did someone call him back? I'm asking. We don't understand what's going on when you've got all the evidence of the indictment. We, you see, it's clean here, you have to answer a question: Will you put an end to this impunity field? Yes or no? Can you change your system? For, if you do not change the system, perhaps what we have to say is to change the authors of that system. "This [is] the thing which we are about to say, and here you must take [it,] and there shall be consequences of the judgments which you are about to make. Then you must be ready to destroy these consequences. So it's up to you. You have to take responsibility, but you don't have escapes and balls out. How will you play it, Mr. Darpón? You're the head of the Medical Department. It's you. And what are you doing? And all this because of the respect for professionals, the respect for the name of Osarides, and this institution...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Your time is up. You're done. Mrs Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u105	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Darpón, I don't suspect all the courts. That VATP produces 100% of the test does not guarantee non-filtration. There are two OPEs of two specialties that are also clear evidence that the first test was filtered. VATP does not have its own specialists and has to use Osakidetza for the design of the exam or other professionals. We don't doubt the ability to keep Osakidetza and IVAP exams, but something happens before the exam is guarded, don't you think? Counselor, what do we do with the injured opponents? People who paid fees, a preparation, even moved – as you said, 20% – from other communities to go to the corresponding OPE. Look, Mr. Darpón, I don't think you've heard me well or read the speech you've given. The OPEs of the Digestive Apparatus, Cardiovascular Surgery, Internal Medicine, Nuclear Medicine, Pneumology, Radiodiagnosis and Urology, which are also under suspicion, must be paralysed, investigated and suspended in a precautionary manner, while the external organism, we insist, which has contracted, analyzes each of these OPEs. But we say that they are not all OPEs. Only specialist medicine must be paralyzed. We believe that we must respect, indeed, – you have said it and I too, I am with you – we must respect all the members of different courts of the OPE 2018, we agree, as well as the opposing people, we also agree. And that's why I think we owe you a responsibility that you're not having. We must succeed, Mr Darpón, as I said, in establishing the culture of sharing decisions and democracy in those areas of Osakidetza that have not yet arrived. Don't let your public health system look like a greasy cheese. I have already told you that it is ethics that must characterize the work of the professionals of Osakidetza, of all and all. And above all, we have and have a pending account with all those victims of doped OPEs, those of specialists, who had no chance, because they were not guaranteed a basic right, Mr Darpón, to equal opportunities. And I reiterate something that our group, Elkarrekin Podemos, is also concerned about: the loss of talent. Because this historical practice of customer corruption in the opposition of Osakidetza has caused our public health system to lose continuously young professionals with talent without any chance. You haven't made me clear, Mr. Darpón. Apart from investigating, what is your department going to do so that this customer practice – as I see it – will not happen again? I'll leave you the record so you don't just have suspicions and now you have evidence as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u107	Mrs. Macazaga, Mrs. Ubera. I repeat, we are the first interested in the explanation of this subject, and there is no doubt about it. But you don't seem to notice the importance and volume of this EPE. 96,000 registered persons, 3,335 places, 86 categories, 1,376 professionals in the courts. Objective, stability for 95 % of the staff. I think it is worth keeping these figures in mind, because they are what is really behind this OPE: people. I therefore believe that it is necessary for all of us to act from the point of view of responsibility, each of us from which we belong. I, have no doubt, since mine. For our part, we are doing and we are going to do everything, absolutely everything that is in the hands of the Department and Osakidetza to ensure the transparency, fairness and confidentiality of the process, as we have tried to do in this public offer of employment. From the Department of Health and Osakidetza we act from the institutional responsibility, and we are the first interested in this OPE to take place with full guarantee and transparency. Now, gentlemen of Elkarrekin We can, you are a great example of ethical behavior, of the new policy. His secretary general, Mr Lander Martínez, suspects that a crime is going to be committed and, instead of denouncing it, makes a quiniela, and if he fails, I shut up and forget, and if right, instead of trying to avoid its consequences, I try to draw political revenue. And a document that is registered before the OPE celebration, will you give me today? Please. That's your style. Looks like everything's for you. But there's nothing in politics. Ethics, values and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u108	Quiet, please. Silence. [[Words]] Silence. Quiet, please. All of them. Silence, please, the chief physician is speaking. Silence, please, all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u109	Gentlemen of Elkarrekin We can. All there is is proof of is what you have just given me, which is registered before the public offer of employment, with an absolute lack of ethics. Because if there has been any irregularity, you were in the hands of having, at least, tried to avoid it. Ethics, values, and responsibility must be above all else. By the way, be sure that in any hospital in Osakidetza, in any of the specialties, professionals know the training of their colleagues. I myself, throughout my university life, course after course, have seen how it was the same people who usually took out the plates and the same people who then got the same best numbers from MIR. It would be terribly unfair to suspect that better-prepared and brighter professionals would pull out the squares by spurious means. Of course, I don't share it, I don't believe it, and I've had enough tests throughout my professional life...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u110	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u111	Now, we will not allow you to extend the shadow of doubt about the name Osakidetza. We will act with absolute roundness in the event that any irregularity is demonstrated, however little it may be. We will also do so on unsubstantiated charges. Mrs Macazaga, what have you done for the sake of transparency and the proper development of this OPE? Nothing. You make a populist and media policy, and you play with the prestige of public services, and now also with the employment of people. You have made public, you have publicly said that you have registered a document before the notary. Osakidetza today doesn't have it. And the only person who should have had it for five minutes, corresponding to the structure of the health care system, is me. They haven't sent him in for the verification of those names they say he has. They haven't taken him to the D.A.'s office either. They have hidden the document of the names and only brought it to the press, Mrs Macazaga, to the press.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u112	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u113	Barkatu, barkatu. Barkatu, I'll tell you more. If Mr. Lander Martínez had recorded before the holding of evidence that an irregularity or a crime was to be committed, he was in time to avoid it, having placed the information in the hands of Osakidetza or the Prosecutor's Office. But no, its goal was not to improve the OPE, correct an alleged leak or work for equal opportunities. Its aim was to discredit the public health system, Osakidetza. They have prevailed the partisan interest over defending the right to equal opportunities in employment, and that is very serious, as well as regrettable. I sincerely believe that as public representatives you have committed a real irresponsibility by not warning of what you considered to be an irregularity or even a crime. Hori da zuen eta gure arteko ezberdintasuna, gu zuhurtziaz, arduraz eta weretzukizunez jarduten dugu. It is our custom to act with rigour and prudence. That's how we've been working so far, and that's how we'll keep doing it. Osakidetza has put and will continue to put all the measures within its reach so that this OPE, one of the most important and also most complex because of its volume, will be carried out with guarantees of transparency, equity and equal opportunities between its opponents. I would like to assume, Mrs Macazaga, that you are aware of the last public call for employment in Castile La Mancha this year, where you are part of the government. I am sure that the politicians responsible for Castilla La Mancha's health system tried to act with the same guarantees as Osakidetza, however, suspended opposition to family doctors in April for a screening. And then, family doctors are as specialized as others, they do an MIR specialty, which is called family and community medicine. In the public health system there are specialists in primary care and hospital specialists. Finally, and believe me, I do not doubt the good intentions, nor the measures taken for the good course of the OPE of family medicine of Castilla La Mancha, but you should reflect a little more on the type of accusations you make, because I am sure you tried to do it very well, with equal opportunities for all, as we do too. To you, gentlemen of EH Bildu, I ask for cooperation and responsibility. He asked me if I'm going to change the system, and I don't think he heard me in the first intervention. This OPE has completely different measures than the previous OPEs, precisely not on suspicion of anyone, but in order to try to better ensure access to all people. I repeat the same thing to you, who has any evidence to put you, if possible, in the Directorate General of Osakidetza, because we will investigate you. Of the investigation and of the measures taken: paralysing the public offers of employment in those courts that there is some indication, with some basis; not paralysing so as not to harm anyone in those courts where we have no doubt of the honesty of their members and where there is no reliable proof of the honesty of their members and exercise. A test-type test gives a bimodal curve, but a clinical case-type test does not necessarily have to be a bimodal test, a bimodal curve, and any statesman knows that. We will wait for the statistical analysis that we have commissioned, which is an independent and external expert. We will continue to work to ensure fairness; if new evidence emerges in any category, we will temporarily suspend it, you have no doubt. We are not going to publish definitive results, if that's what you're asking me, as soon as it's not clear. Yesterday I addressed to Ararteko the offer to name a person of his trust, Ararteko technician, as an observer in the files opened by Osakidetza, because we have nothing to hide. And I repeat to you again, if the Prosecutor's Office understands, we will cooperate fully, because, I do not doubt, our goal is that the public health service has the best professionals, that it continues to provide quality care and that there are no infuses that can then be demonstrated. Wait a little while for the process to be over. As I have said in the first part of my speech, the Medical Department and Osarides have taken the leadership required by this situation, and we will not leave the situation in any way, nor the consequences and responsibilities of the outcome of that examination. We offer you Kolabation, we hope to be the same from you. Eskerrik asko, and since we have no doubt that this will end here, do not worry, that I will see with you the results at the end of all procedures with great pleasure. What I am not going to be able to solve Mrs Macazaga is the clinical case she has put, I don't know what specialty, because I am no longer dedicated to that right now. And I don't need to be applauded.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u114	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Yeah, but it's just the pussy that made you your share. Just what he did to you, if you want to figure out. What have you got to say?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u115	Mr Darpón, our job as a political organization and as a coalition is to make political complaints and public complaints about what is happening. And that's why we did what we did. And if someone here today is discrediting the public health system, you are allowing this to happen under your mantle and allowing equal opportunities in the Basque health system and allowing there to be a top on the promotion of doctors that makes these doctors, the best talent we have in the Public health system, go to private health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u116	I'm marinez jauna.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u117	This depresses public health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u118	Mr Martínnez, I said that you were made to your part, not to join the chief physician, because I have to promise. Chief physician, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u119	Mr Lander Martínez, on 8 June you just handed me a notarial document dated 11 May, before any of the tests of medical specialties of the current public offer of employment. Eskerrik asko. You were on time, now just bad political propaganda.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u120	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Let's move on. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "Ju Louis Uranus, the parliamentary member of the Podemos to the head of the health department, the state of the budget of the inequality of Eukadin's health." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u121	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, lehendakari jauna, parliamentary colleagues and compañeras. A quick question. I was disconcerted to see the budget execution that happened to us when I found that a basic theme of the health plan and a basic theme of the PNV-PSOE government pact, which has to do with the work to try to cushion the health inequalities in our country, had little 8,000 euros of budget. Can this monitor health inequalities, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u122	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u123	Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. President, chief officers. Mr. Uria, I suppose it's your rhetorical question to deal with the differences in the health zone. With the seriousness that I think characterizes you, I have not just understood how you ask me – in writing at least – whether the amount of EUR 11,000 seems sufficient for the fight against health inequalities. So, I sincerely hope that the question will be rhetorical. In any case, the answer is clear: No, Mr Uria, those EUR 11,000 seem to me to be totally insufficient to combat health inequalities. However, they are sufficient for the specific needs we need to monitor, to monitor those health needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u124	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u125	Dear Mrs. Tejeria. Indeed, when we ask this question, we refer to the low priority of combating health inequalities in your Department. We would like our diligent politicians to be more humble, because there is a lot of work ahead, and more capacity for consensus, at least in access to Basque public health. We know that health inequalities are the backbone of our plan and are the backbone of policies. After all, we understand that these are avoidable and unfair systematic differences in the Basque population on the basis of gender, social class, place of residence, country of origin or disability. The health plan is based on a reality. The level of health of a population is closely related to the distribution of health among its social groups. It cannot be that monitoring and 8,000 euros scarce are the central element of what you are doing in the control, in the cushioning, in the dissemination and in the study and research of health inequalities in the Basque population. Some health data: different levels of lung cancer, different levels of life expectancy among Basque population groups, different levels of heart disease, diabetes, low birth weight and difference in access to health services, breast cancer prevention, PADI, etc. Those differences between us are what hides the averages that we sometimes give in health reports. The poor die more, have more diseases, have less quality of life and die worse than the rich. And we know who the poor are in Basque society. We know that child poverty is 9% and we know that approximately 150,000 people, Basques and Basques, have an almost extreme level of poverty, about 7%. Copaying policies, cuts, staffing issues that change accessibility to services, and attempts by the Basque Government not to deepen, had their impact in 2008 on health and now the gap in health inequalities has not improved, it has worsened as social determinants of health are more important. It is a matter of political will to establish multisectoral policies and to implement intersectoral strategies to put health into all policies. These health promotion strategies need to adjust budgets for programmed activities. Not enough 8,000 euros. It is public health that must be at the command post of its management. And this is going to be a long time. The sooner it starts, the better.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u126	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u127	Uria jauna, squeaky-snail said. The amount of money you're talking about isn't and that money is sufficient to prevent differences, and to monitor the differences. The Department of Health has incorporated in its activities inequalities, which is fundamental, and also monitoring, which is necessary, which is for what is the departure you name. You know that I share with you the importance of health inequalities in a society like ours. He is also well aware of the efforts, work and budget allocations made by Osakidetza and the Department of Health as a whole to address health inequalities. And let me give you a point: it is a pity that you asked me this question today, which is a very important question when today the subject was elsewhere and no one is going to pay attention to this. But, in any case, our intervention in the field of inequalities goes far beyond its monitoring. We understand the right to health protection as a human right, we defend it and exercise it in Euskadi, and not as a consequence of the place of birth, origin or social security contributions of each person. We therefore advocate the universality of the right to health since the very creation of Osakidetza on 19 May 1983 as one of the principles that underpin our health system. Our main priority, both the previous legislature and this one, is to maintain and improve the Basque health system and to maintain it as universal, public and quality. But not by ideological sectarianism, by the full conviction of who is in government and who directs health services. We are doing interventions on inequalities in various areas, which you know, but would highlight the population screening of cervix cancer, which will begin before the end of the month. This screening is carried out opportunistically today, but we know that women with lower socio-economic and educational levels do it less, so we are going to make it populational. The choice of professionals in the field of primary care, which we hope will strengthen health education and follow-up programmes. Universality, which we have always exercised, despite the obstacles that the People's Party has imposed on us since 2012. Local health networks and their work, patient empowerment programs, our actions on waiting lists, health coordination, mental health work, suicide prevention projects, etc. Undoubtedly, a clear and determined commitment from the Basque Government and the collaboration of the rest of the institutions from the health perspective in all policies, which is the best model for intervening on the causes of the causes and reducing inequalities.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u128	Thank you, chief physician. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Groups of Popula, Carmelo Barrio Barroja, made for Cultura and the head physician of the Polic Language, the euscal institutions of Eascal to aid to OLBE." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u129	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors. Let's keep talking about Ope, opera, let's go. [[Berber]] And let's do it because, well, recently in a media outlet came out an analysis, after, of the consideration of what had been the 66th edition of the ABAO season, a call of curious attention and, moreover, relevant, or which justified it in some way. And the culture gallery of an important Basque newspaper said, "Would you like to have an opera?" And he said that "the end of the season, he again questioned the Basque institutions that postpone the ABAO in their cultural spending." Well, that's not what we said. We've seen that in the media. During the last few weeks, in some full of control we have also been able to talk about museums, with the advisor, reading, books, libraries, we will talk about archives, but today it plays the opera, today it plays the music. One of the most important cultural references of the Basque Country, the ABAO. That is, thousands of partners, 4,500, dozens of collaborators, the world's first musical quality, tourism, 78,000 people linked in one way or another, 190 beneficiary educational centers, Bilbao tourist development, very important, and economic. Well, that's part of that cultural and economic reality, which is opera. But I say again, recently, those media and after seeing also the last letter in memory of the deficit that is structurally dragging the ABAO, well, it was also made clear by the leadership in memory of last year. And then, in the light of this information in relation to the concern it demonstrated, I say again, we echo it, in relation to the contributions of the Basque institutions. How do we assess the insufficient economic attention of the Basque Government and the Basque public administrations to one of the most important events of the Basque cultural year, such as the one organized by the ABAO, in the light of the information? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u130	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u131	Madam President, President, fellow governments, members of the legislature, Mr. Barri. I must begin by telling you that the Basque Government is the only public institution in the Spanish state that has maintained sustained support for the ABAO opera festival. In fact, I believe that it is the only institution that does not expressly cite that article of opinion to which you have referred. I share with you, that Bilbao's opera festival is a relevant cultural event and that is why it has been on the budget of the Basque Government for many years, with an annual item, which I insist, has been maintained over time. A special feature of the festival is that, unlike the other opera festivals of the Spanish State, the Bilbao Association of Friends of the Opera is a private initiative, born of Vizcaine society and as you have said today you have approximately 4,500 partners, with a serious, professional and transparent management as can be seen in the information they have exposed to the public and with an interesting and quality artistic program. The private character of this initiative contrasts with that of others such as the opera seasons of the Teatro Real de Madrid, the Liceo de Barcelona, the Palacio de las Artes de Valencia, the Teatro de la Maestranza de Sevilla or the Teatro Campoamor de Oviedo. All of them on initiative and mostly public funding. ABAO is possible because we also have a public space such as the Euskaduna Palace and two public orchestras such as the Euskadi Symphony Orchestra and the Bilbao Symphony Orchestra. I therefore believe that ABAO is a season and an initiative that all administrations should take care of, because of the quality of their programming, because of the professionalism of their management, the collaboration in public budgets and the public initiative that supports it. The level of self-financing of the festival exceeds 76% with a budget in its last edition of 6.7 million euros, far from the 44 that, for example, costs the high school budget. And public contributions reach EUR 1.5 million, slightly more than 23% of their income. In recent years the festival of ABAO has suffered the consequences of the economic crisis that has resulted in a smaller contribution from some public administrations and a decrease in the number of partners and tickets sold. And the Basque Government is the only institution that has maintained its annual support around €600,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u132	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u133	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, Counselor. Well, the article also cited that the end of the lyrical season in Bilbao always brings the same inescapable question, do or do the Basque institutions want to continue opera in Bilbao after several years of erosion in the ABAO's own funds, in an effort of financial resistance? Basque institutions continue to look elsewhere and, above all, postpon the opera in the hierarchy of their cultural spending. This is the question that, of course, develops that call of attention that we saw in a criticism of an expert in culture by the media and, above all, knowing the area to which he referred. I would like to know, anyway, in any case, because I believe that this, the assessment is that you, in fact, give an amount of EUR 600,000 and the Bizkaia Diputation much less, much less, and that draws attention, perhaps that mix of Basque institutions to which the article refers, appeals to both, or more to one but in any case speaks of the Basque institutions. I would like to know whether the organisation, if the ABAO has also expressed its concern in this regard to the Basque Government, i.e. I repeat earlier that the President of the ABAO himself mentioned that the deficit was significant, that it was EUR 200,000 and that reference is also made to the article. In other words, I would like to know whether that concern has been transmitted to the Basque Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u134	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u135	Mr. Barrio. I think we have a private public system mounted for the opera that works reasonably well and the main decisions I think correspond to the Association of Friends of the Bilbao Opera itself. The Royal Theatre, the Royal Theatre for a population of 6 million people, program 13 opera titles. The High School for a population of 5 million, 13 titles. ABAO for a population of one million people program five titles and a concert. Is that reasonable or not? I don't know. With regard to the other Basque institutions, your party has representation in other territorial areas and can ask the corresponding question there, what I regret is that the ABAO has lost importance in the consideration of the Spanish Government, especially when you have been ruling in it, which has gone from contributing €3 million in 2008 to €517,000 in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-08.u136	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was eight o'clock in the afternoon.
