ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. As you know, I warn you that the third point on the subject will be discussed in the fourth place and the fourth in the third place. First point in theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: "You shall collect the proposition of the law made by the parliamentary teams, concerning the measures which must be taken to serve the education of all the scholars. "Motion, introduced by members of the Basque Groups of Bengochea de Bengoechea, the schoolcarry of two years old. "Mution, Edurne Garcia, introduced together as members of the Podemos, about the quality of education given to students in the primary cycle of Child Education." We shall begin with Mrs. Ubera, the representative of the EH Collect Group, to present and defend her enterprise. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u1	Good morning, head of the table. Mr. Urkullu, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Today is the topic we have to discuss since 2013. The discussion of the school transport is always on the table for different reasons. For the most diverse references made with Kilometries, due to the state of the plants, to the treatment given to students with special education, to the reductions given in years. For different reasons, but today is the theme we have from 2013 to discuss. A number of discussions, a machine at the Board of Education: Twenty13 to 2015 to change regulations. At the end of 2015, a specific regulation was made in order to regulate the school transport, which had not hitherto existed, without considering the deficiencies on the table, and without making a good diagnosis, so the situation was not given a solution. What we have seen since 2015 is the regulation of the school transport, which regulates the garrison of public schools, I know it has become a tool for applying restrictions, but it is reality, whether you like it or not. That's why this policy has become a tool. And this time, you get two years. And what is not intelligible is, that with the same regulation as from 2015, there has hitherto been no difficulty with the students of the first Child Education, and now in 2018, together with a problem. We don't understand and understand the tendency of the Board of Education to escape its responsibilities we don't understand. And that's obvious in the paper he sent to the schools. As well as playing without equipment, the Board of Education is acting in an active manner and is running from its responsibility the Education Department, Mrs. Uriarte, unfortunately. And so how can education be a model? Because the Board of Education must be an example to what he does. What's one thing to say, but then it's another thing, you gotta do it. Because the Board of Education does exactly the opposite of what they always say and escapes its responsibilities. And what we see with its practice is that instead of sharing cares, it leaves the responsibility in others, that instead of penetrating into conversation and negotiations, it acts of autoritism, instead of repairing problems, it accumulates and increases problems. Just opposite what education values say. And what we hope for in this legislation to resolve the question of the preparation of the school for ever, without delaying any further discussion, is easily said from 2013, with this dispute which we are going from 2013. And not only dispute, but many of you here are witnesses of this, that we have made a number of settlements around the school, and that we have made them ourselves with the government. The first deal is September 25, 2013, EAJ and us. The second deal is May 2014, EAJ and PP. Third, we accepted unanimously at the Board of Education in the year of June 2017, Mrs. Bengoeche? You'll remember well. And the latest November 2017, ours, Podemos, and the Manpulative Party. And besides these agreements, how many signs have we had? The parents, the council... It's an endless list! How many times we've treated this subject at the Board of Education! A lot of essays, but a machine of disappointment. We haven't been able to agree with him, but we're not able to make the government move and settle the matter once and for all, but we'll continue. We're not going to give up because we have to fix this. And we should fix it, shouldn't we, Mrs. Uriart? We should fix it with a reasonable perspective, with an integrated perspective, with a reasonable matching point of view. And on the other hand, when you fill your mouth with this government, you need to expand politics to help your family. You do it completely contrary: Come on, cut it. I don't know if it's because of the evil or the incorruption. I don't know why. Because you know what? What's this Board of Education becoming? The bureaucracy is becoming a series of events, the field of education becomes a series of bureaucracy for everyone. Instead of being a companion to students, families, and colleges, he is becoming a nuisance. It's hard for you to do what it should be easy, Mrs. Uriarte. So, after today's discussion, let's hope that the Boards of Education, Mrs. Uriart, and her equipment, should set up a mound, escape responsibility, take responsibility, and settle once and for all the great snowballs of the school police we're holding in hand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Bengochea, it's your word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, Councillors, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. As Mrs Ubera has told us, it is true that this issue has come very often – too often – to this Parliament. I joined the decision in the late spring of the year 17, where we discussed the issue and adopted it unanimously. In the autumn of the 17th, in November, almost a year ago, we treated it again, and although we did not achieve unanimity, the common will to articulate school transport once and for all came out by a majority. And here we are almost a year later. We have an instrument that is Decree 69 of 2015. I do not want to load the inks – because it is not the style of our group – in an alleged excessive bureaucracy or in an alleged neglect of the council. We are bound to be demanding as an opposition, but that does not force us, nor does it of course allow us to be unjust. What do we know about this? The counselor was kind enough to inform us – to me personally – and we know that the issue of two-year-olds is a matter of serious concern to the Council. We know that steps are being taken, we know that it is a more or less mechanical problem – mechanical in the sense that the decision to provide greater safety for two-year-olds can materially be carried out. We know. Then we believe that this issue is in the process of being resolved. But our job is to be demanding. Not unfair, but rather demanding. But then we have another problem that our group is very concerned about, which is the problem of young people between the ages of 16 and 18...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u4	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u5	Thank you. It is the problem of young people between the ages of 16 and 18 who have completed compulsory education and who, especially in Álava, need to move to continue studying. I am not going to give you the data again, because it would be repetitive, which I gave you in the debate a year ago, but I am going to remind you of some things. Álava, the largest territory, the most unpopulated territory, but not only unpopulated in absolute numbers, especially unpopulated in relative numbers, because 75% of the population of Álava is concentrated in Vitoria, and only 25% is distributed across the rest of the territory, which is the largest territory of our autonomous community. We believe that to get Álava not to depopulate – that is to say to Vitoria, because here everyone is appalled – to get Ávila, sorry, Álava not to depopulate, well Ávila neither, I wish we could, but to get Álava not to depopulate, we believe that it should be a country policy, a country policy, a policy that involved all the elements and all the administrations. We understand that the council will say, "Well, but it is not compulsory teaching, why do I have to fall – forgive me to say it colloquially – all the browns? I am bound by compulsory education, not non-compulsory education," but, let's see, do we really believe that our young people when they finish the ESO are ready to go out into the world of work without more weapons? Or do we believe, as we have said so many times, that young people must continue to train, either in vocational training or by starting a baccalaureate that will lead them to university? We cannot think that a young man who is 16 years old, because he has completed compulsory secondary education, we can release him from our hands, but not because of a misunderstanding of paternalism, but because the country should continue to train these young people and, above all, in the territory of Álava. We are pleased that these young people living in rural areas will continue to be trained and, if possible, will continue to develop their lives in those rural areas, in non-capital areas. I think this has to be a country policy. We understand that the Education Council says, "But I cannot put all this burden on my shoulders, because I have enough to attend to compulsory education." We agree on the issue of transport, we agree, that is why we believe that the Chamber must intervene, but if I were the councillor, I would not only try to reach an agreement with the Chamber, but with other councils of the Government. Something will have to be said about advice that deals with things like territory, agriculture, social development... If it is important for everyone that these young people continue to be trained as a country policy and that the rural part of Álava is not further depopulated, we will have to make a joint effort, and that is our amendment. I would also like to thank all the groups that have made an effort to arrive at a common wording. It has not been possible, but it has not been possible, not because we have not all made an effort, not because the Government document is not very similar to what the rest of the groups are going to approve, they are very similar, the only thing that differentiates them, and I understand it, is the degree of demand, but it is our job to be demanding as opposition. But practically the two documents say almost the same thing. So, thanking all the groups for their cooperation, we hope that this will be the final document that will help to put school transport policies in order in the Basque Autonomous Community and, above all, that it will not let go of the young people who have to continue training and who have already passed compulsory education. And stressing that to this effort must be added the Diputación – if we are talking about Álava, the Diputación de Álava; in other ways, the diputations – but also, as a country policy, other councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u7	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Members of Laws Once again we are debating in this plenary on school transport. On this occasion on the school transport service that affects two-year-old boys and girls in public schools. This is merely a symptom that it is a matter of concern and that it is necessary and urgent that we address it. However, the motion that we are presenting today from Elkarrekin Podemos, although it is a consequence of the inquiry made to the Education Councilwoman, Mrs Uriarte, in the past full of control over school transport, intends to take another step at this educational stage. Hau da: Mozio honekin gure asmoa eztabaidagaia handitzea zen, ez Bakarrik garraio-arloan generatea. This motion sought to seize the opportunity and broaden the debate to quality in education, in the whole of child education. That is why we have tabled a motion calling on the Basque Parliament not only to commit itself to changing the rules on school transport, but also to taking a step further and calling on this Parliament to adopt some other measure which will contribute to improving the educational quality of pupils in the first cycle of child education in public schools, i.e. concrete measures which will help to ensure the right to public and quality education for pupils from zero to two years. The first cycle of Child Education is a basic and fundamental educational stage in human development. We're talking about an educational stage, not a purely welfare public service. Between the ages of zero and three, the basics of learning are laid that allow us to develop all our abilities and potentialities as adults. Academic disciplines such as evolutionary psychology and pedagogy have obtained numerous scientific evidences that support the importance of schooling from early ages. Zero-to-three education offers us many benefits in key areas such as socialization and affective development. But it also contributes to early detection and intervention of developmental disorders, learning difficulties and other issues that boys and girls may also experience at these ages. It is an educational stage that, in addition to compensating and balancing inequalities due to family, social, cultural, sexual and gender origin, among others, is also a fundamental resource for reconciling work and family life and, therefore, for advancing equality. In this regard, it should be recalled that the Haurreskolak consortium is born with the aim of facilitating work and family reconciliation. In addition, the reality is that the birth rate drops in Euskadi. The factors that are causing this are many and very diverse, from ineffective employment policies to scarce housing policies that do not allow young people to emancipate and form a family. But it also includes the uncertainty that causes families not being able to reconcile or not being able to assume the payment of Haurreskolak's dues. Because with these questions, what are we talking about? What barriers exist for families? First, on the one hand, the public quotas of haur-eskolak haur-eskola On the other hand, the lack of public places in the 0-2 year stretch, mainly in urban centers, is a reality. Therefore, let us monitor the evolution of the birth rate in Basquedi, municipality to municipality, which allows us to predict the real needs of the school places in the stage of children's education and, where necessary, to extend the offer of public places of 0-2 years. Moreover, while subsidized private centres offer morning classes that facilitate work-family reconciliation, in many public centres it is the families themselves who have to assume this service that helps conciliation. We do not say that, as Save the Children reports in the report "Need to improve", which highlights how many families are forced – who do not choose, are forced – to pay an extra fee to hire support assistants for the care of children 0-2 years old. We therefore assume the commitment that the first cycle of early childhood education at the public schools in Euskadi must have the necessary educational staff for the morning classes and, to that end, in order to make this commitment, in the 2019 budgets we create a specific budget line for the recruitment of technical education assistants. Finally, we were talking in our motion about what has brought us here, school transport. We adapt Decree 69/2015, on the school transport of students from public non-university educational institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and we incorporate the student of the first cycle of children to ensure the safety of the transport of the student of 2 years, without causing any harm to the families who use this service. Because it is curious, and we said it in our previous intervention a few days ago in the full control, it is curious that these barriers only exist when we are talking about public centers, when we are talking about public schools. In the private centers subsidized with public money, if there are no places, the concerts are expanded; if the student with 2 years of age is enrolled, the next course can be stayed; they offer services of morning classes and above, if there is a change in the regulations of the school transport, does not affect them. You yourself, Madam Counsellor, have provided us with the data and the increase in the ratios in the subsidized private centres is not due to repeaters, the incorporation of the late student, the family grouping or the transfers recommended by the inspection in exceptional cases. Do not be fooled, Mrs Uriarte, the increase in ratio is due to the continued support of this Government for private education used by the contracted centres as a subcontract. Above all, we will have to keep listening, Mrs Bengoechea, that we must ensure the freedom of choice of center of families. We say that what this Government has to ensure is that all students, regardless of their status and origin, have quality education, because we are talking about law, the right to education, and not privileges. That is why we have tabled this motion. An initiative that, in addition to the modification of school transport regulations, includes very concrete measures to improve the quality of early childhood education in public schools; measures that undoubtedly contribute to the development of a truly equitable, inclusive and quality Basque education system, and that guarantee equality of opportunity and social cohesion; measures that are not inventions of Elkarrekin Podemos, but are proposals contained in the reports of the Basque Institute for Assessment and Educational Research, the Euskadi School Council or Save The Children, based on previous evidence and studies that support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u9	Gracias, president. Today it is up to us to debate, again, because this is not the very first time, about the school transport of pupils, in this case, in a very specific way about the transport for children of two years of age. Then there were other initiatives, which, as Edurne has just said, came into other subjects. But we felt it was very important in this case to focus specifically on this issue, because we believe that school transport for pupils should be guaranteed, regardless of their age and regardless of the educational network to which they belong. That is why we believe that there are grounds for action, more so if we are talking about public education. We must not forget, on the other hand, that this type of service – early school transport, such as two-year-old boys and girls – is due to structural changes in society and especially in Basque families, families with new structures and, therefore, new needs and new demands. School transport becomes a necessary and essential service to meet the needs of many families, families that combine work and time incompatibility with school schedules. In addition, these time spaces, in which students travel to school, are not merely helpful, but should also be considered as educational spaces, as should also be considered the schedule, for example, of school dining rooms. Therefore, both educational institutions and the Education Administration must take part, and have an obligation to try to provide a solution to the needs of families. Because this helps to integrate students, to education from young people on equal terms for all, without excluding anyone in access to school. Given this situation and the problem we have on the table, it seems clear that Decree 69/2015 must be revised and adapted, and formulas must be sought to ensure the equality of all pupils before this school transport service and, of course, that there are no differences between the two educational networks. It is clear that the current regulations on the use of school transport do not guarantee the equality of all pupils before this service, do not sufficiently guarantee the transport of all pupils, and this is reflected in the decree by not specifically including two-year-olds. That is why we in the Socialist Group believe that appropriate changes should be made to address the needs of students and, above all, families, because the decisions they make affect many of them. We have to bear in mind that around 92% of the two-year-olds are in school in Euskadi. To a large extent, by family conciliation and certainly many of them need, of course, school transport. And both the Department of Education and the schools have to look for a way, because the centers are also concerned with solving this problem. It's very good to go to the department as head of the department, but schools also have responsibilities that they have to take on. They have to help to find a way, a solution that is not only pending in times, days or vacant places in transport, but that family members and students know that they have guaranteed this service, therefore a solution that really fits the needs demands. School transport is a factor in society that conditions the right to quality education, the right to equal opportunities, and also conditions an education that must be governed by the principles of equity and quality of education, and that cannot be governed by the fact that some pupils are able to enjoy a service and others are unable to do so. And we understand that ensuring this must be a priority and an obligation of the Education Administration. That is why the amendment we have signed with the Nationalist Group to the Department of Education urges that, in the context of the process of amending Decree 69/2015, a diagnosis be made first of the current situation of school transport and the various casuistics. The Department of Education is also urged, while adapting existing legislation, to analyse within the school transport monitoring commissions the possibilities of action for the transport of two-year-olds. As I also mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the new family situations that are taking place also require improvements and modifications in the regulation of the transport service. Different options are available in the Department of Education to include or incorporate the two-year student in the transport service and, due to family reconciliation and new situations, children in the first cycle should also be included in the decree. The inclusion of 16-18-year-olds, as Mrs Bengoechea said, from rural areas has also been discussed during these last very intense hours of attempts to negotiate. I believe that we have been about to reach an agreement because, I agree with Mrs Bengoechea, it does not differ much from what was proposed by the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Group and other groups. There was no big difference. You can put the nuance in a greater or lesser requirement to the Administration but not in the analysis of the circumstances or in the measures to be taken, in that there is a wide coincidence. I therefore wish to regret that, despite the closeness that existed in the positions of both proposals that are going to be voted on today, it has not been possible – at the last hour of the night it has been attempted – to reach that agreement. I remain as positive as we have agreed on the analysis of the situation, we have also agreed on the measures to be taken and we have agreed on which groups should be included in that analysis and study. So, I think we're going to stick to the positive, that there's a broad coincidence. This agreement has not been possible today, unfortunately, but it is clear that we have come a long way: a practically unanimous diagnosis has been made of the problems affecting school transport and its consideration as an essential element of the educational quality of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u10	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u11	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. The subject to which we are to discuss today is to discuss the transport of school and the concerns which have arisen about it. In this discussion, though the chief of the revenues in the entire control meeting had passed in answer to two interpelations and a question, there are several points or arguments which must be well explained and solved. For our group, school transportation is a key service that provides a comprehensive map of resources that the Department of Education provides to families and students to adequately meet their needs. A service, moreover, that pursues the clear objective of reconciling family life and work life and that, in fact, we believe it succeeds, seeing some data as that to the day 21,200 boys and girls, students, are transported on more than 540 routes throughout Euskadi. The commitment of this Government, and in particular the Department of Education, is to ensure equal access to education for part of the student population, while overcoming the socio-economic obstacles they may face, and to this end it makes available to it a system of aid and compensation in which this system of school transport is linked. At the regulatory level it is Decree 69/2015 of 19 May, which regulates the issue that comes to us today. It should be recalled that this normative framework arose from the need to bring together in the same text the different elements to provide this service in an appropriate way and, in addition, to do so under the principles of equality and equity and by providing greater legal certainty to both students and families, as well as to educational institutions themselves. This decree received a number of nods, among other things the formation of the commission of curing the charity of the school, which is received in article 12. A commission with different functions, including the creation or proposal of appropriate measures to improve the transport system itself, and another would be the exceptional authorizations contained in the decree itself, in particular in Article 6.2 and paragraph e. What does this mean? Well, the proclamation itself, at the very moment of 2015, would have to give special permission to follow the school transport by the committee. This is directly related to the fact that – you have already commented on it too – the two-year-old boys and girls currently, in the current drafting of the decree, are not collected, since in it we always talk about the second cycle of Child Education, and this leads us a little to the succession of facts that have brought us to this debate. A regulatory framework, by the way, which not only speaks about the scope of the second cycle of child education, but also extends to primary and secondary education. In any case, at this time that the decree has been in force, in these more than three years different opportunities for improvement have been identified through new demands and all of them, in addition, have been followed through the transport monitoring commission, which meets regularly to analyze these requests. After all, the purpose is to have fewer and fewer cases, by taking advantage of the experience we have hitherto received by special consent and their typeology, and thus to be able to enter into the general rule. Councilwoman Uriarte recalled at the last full session, when answering the two questions and the question, that the Department of Education was already in the process of amending and updating this decree in order to improve the provision of the service itself and to supplement and clarify the cases of its application and also to simplify it administratively so that the interpretation that could be obtained from it would be reduced and as simple as possible. At the same time, it also admitted that the department would not obstruct from the application that the centres could authorize, on the basis of their independence and centre autonomy, the transportation to the two-year student. On the other hand, today, the Basque People assembled together Podemos and the populars signed a medium and we'd like to refer to it a few points. As far as the two-year-old school transport of boys and girls is concerned, I would like to reiterate what has been said so far because, as Mrs Bengoechea said, I think that more or less all groups, perhaps in other words, are commenting on the same thing, but then they do include other points, for example the guarantee of transport to pupils aged 16 to 18 years of baccalaureate and vocational training in rural areas. In this case, we proposed to them last night in the transaction to also pick up this point which was initially not foreseen, to do so also through the transport monitoring commission, as we proposed to do also with the students of two years. You guys called it abstract – I think it was – or ambiguous, I don't remember what the adjective was, we don't understand very well why for one case it's worth and for the other it's not. And finally, you also included the guarantee of maximum safety in school transport. Here we find something practically from Perogrullo, it is as if to a doctor or in the Department of Health it is demanded that the different instruments be properly clean. I do not know, we believe that the fact that pupils are transported safely is something that, in fact, the Department of Education already does, is something that is also regulated, and the two precepts that are provided for in these two royal decrees apply. So much so that the Department of Education itself, in addition to what is foreseen in these two decrees, is constantly trying to improve the subjections, the conditions, the systems, and monitoring, let us say, what are the latest trends, the latest innovations in order to be able to implement them. In any case, and by the end, you can continue to come to this rostrum to say how badly the Department of Education does it, according to your point of view, how badly this government does it, how badly we also do it, my colleagues, and I, for defending this government. In any case, what we have seen is a department, which in the face of a situation that had been generated, has been able to analyze the different options that existed to be able to tackle it and, in this sense, we believe that it has acted correctly. Wasn't that – that's the question I'm asking myself – wasn't that today's goal? In conclusion, in our amendment with the Socialist Group, we urge the Department of Education to do two things: First, that the amendment of this Decree 69/2015 starts from a serious diagnosis on the current situation of school transport and also from the different casuistics that can be given around it. The second point is that, as long as this amendment is dealt with in the transport monitoring committee mentioned above, the possibilities of transporting children of two years of age are analysed. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u12	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Passing on the turn of the answers, Mrs. Ubera, the representative of the EH Collectors has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u13	" Señor Álvarez, este departamento lo hace bastate mal, Bastate mal." It's very difficult to do worse than this department, and I'm willing to tell you that this department is doing well, and the people don't ask for luxury. People don't ask for luxury. The citizens, being treated with love and in common sense, are very understanding and understood, but we are in the presence of a group which is only a hindrance, and which is very difficult to be understood in the presence of such a section, and people are impatient of it? And, Mr. Pastor, you'll forgive me, but from the Board of Education we don't see will. Just to read the proposals that some and others have presented themselves to themselves, and also the half-way ones themselves. I didn't see him here in order to fix the two-year-old wills from the Board of Education or Government, and I don't see any will to repair the field. But it's not just what's been recorded, but so far we've seen what's happened. Then you'll understand, won't you? Even trust... And I'd like to have more confidence and more credibility, but every day opens our eyes. And that we have behaved with great flexibility on this subject, from 2013 to 2018. We have acted with responsibility, and to search for solutions, our demands have also been lowered. But the answer from the Board of Education has not been at the same level, and for the sake of success, because we really wanted to solve it, we've been able to do so in a different way, but we haven't succeeded in turning it around. And what we need here is a good diagnosis. See what happens at school. And we do visit, but I just want to ask for more visits to schools, see what reality is, see what's going on in the schools, what's going on with the situations, the privations, what's going on with the kilometrics, what's going on with the students who have special education needs, what's going on in the fields... I don't know what's going on in our everyday schools. And then we talk about the difference of choice, but here it seems that the equality of choice is not in the same position for all the citizens. And what we need is answers. And citizens and schools and families and students need answers from this Board of Education. And I'll give you a few examples. E.g. Arsate. The schools are in the neighborhood, the public houses are from the east, aren't they? Musakola. There was also a first-school education in Musacolan, and now they leave their child-loves and centralizes, and then you interfere with the transport, for instance. Or in other places, the children, our young children, who live in Dutch or small countries, have not the same opportunities in union and professions, like young men who live in cities or greater countries. And that's very simple. It's not just a role in the Board of Education. We're saying that when we're working together, we can fix it with the other institutions. Landbus. Look, as a deputy's deputy at Larranitz Ugarte, he gave this subject a solution, and we're very grateful to so many parents and schools, and now, in this legislation, he's back again. He's backing out! And even if he had done wrong, I wouldn't have jumped the rings for that, but what are we doing? What are we doing? Look what's happening in the diary. So what has been said, the bureaucracy Department of Education has become and has to cease to be a bureaucracy and give answers, and has to provide solutions. We're ready to share the responsibility. We don't have any problems getting involved in the diagnostics, making suggestions, seeing the deficiencies, and telling the people that this can't be or can't be said to people, but we really have to guarantee that it's a student who goes to public schools and public schools, every family, every citizen, no matter what school they go to, in the equal educational choice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u15	Mr. Alvarez, let's discriminate a little bit. I don't think our group is here to say how bad you are, or how bad you do it, or anything. I do not think we can be asked for a more positive attitude. And I'm gonna tell you one thing. In education, which is the subject that I have been humbly carrying, from the first day of my intervention in this rostrum, I recognized Mrs Uriarte that her responsibility came at the time of the perfect storm, with an economic crisis – from which we started to emerge – with old infrastructure and with a teacher who was going to retire in a very short time. But I think that was the first day I came up here. Do you guys do it wrong? See, you guys are improveable. Everyone is improveable and you, even if you don't believe it, too. I understand that they believe that they are a gift from God to the Basque people. But no; they are improveable. Let's see, it's more, right now I would tell the counselor, trying to put me in her place, that the problem of education, apart from being in the perfect storm, is also a problem of growth. In what way do I say this? I say this in the sense that every time our performance is more sophisticated. What does that do? That leads to additional problems. No one has 92% of two-year-olds in two-year classrooms throughout Spain. Just us, great. But that creates some problems that you die of. I mean, we're in trouble growing up and, yes, we have to demand that they be fixed, but not from the point of view that they make it fatal, no. I think we all have to be proud to have achieved that level of 92%. Look, I'm going to quickly tell you about the late Mr. Azkuna. He came to inaugurate a primary health center in Irun. The man told me desperate, he said to me, "I believed that opening many health centers would clear the hospitals and it's quite the opposite. The more health centers I open, the more clogged are hospitals." Why? Because primary health centres detected many more situations that needed to be addressed. And that told me, I laughed at him a lot, actually. He came a little desperate. So, that's what happens to us. The more sophisticated the system, the more needs we create. Now I'm going to focus on the two years. Now, we have a problem with the two years. It's just nobody knows how to hold them on public transport. Neither state law nor autonomous law describe how to do so. Moreover, it is now obsolete to talk about ages. It's about sizes and weights. So we have to go ahead, as we have done and we have done very well that 90% are in school, we have to go ahead with how to transport them. I assure you, there are no regulations that tell us how to do this and I have recognized Mrs Uriarte that I know she is working on it, but it is a real problem, a problem of what I say to you, of the growing of the system. As soon as I have it, I'm going to address Mrs. Garcia. I didn't know we were here to argue with each other. Kontxo There are countries in Europe, even areas in Spain, where the public competes in quality, and people don't take their children to the concerts. Look, it's like back then when we went to the doctor, you went to Osakidetza and it was all new and shiny, you went to a private doctor, who was there on a flat, sinister, with antique furniture... We've all been through this. I'm going to the public, because, even if it is, it's all cleaner. And that's what public education would have to do, compete in quality; and also do something else that was recommended to us by the President of the School Council – which I already told her in the committee, "You're not going to make many friends" – which is that each and every one of the centers undergo internal evaluation, which is very difficult, that they question themselves, that they say what we're not doing well enough, in what we can improve. Well, that's it, and I'm sorry, because if someone comes back to me, I don't have a chance to answer anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u17	It is difficult to intervene after Mrs Bengoechea. Look, from my parliamentary group we regret that this debate has been limited to one area of children's education; we had a good opportunity to go beyond changing school transport regulations and improving other key aspects, which would help to ensure the quality of pupils from zero to two years, but the rest of the parliamentary groups have decided not to take this opportunity to address essential issues that need to be improved with regard to early childhood education in Basque, such as monitoring the evolution of birth in Basque, expanding public supply, lowering public quotas for Haurreskolak and children's schools, launching an information and awareness campaign among families in early school, and making public commitment to include a part in the 2019 budgets for the recruitment of technical education assistants. But the spokesmen of the rest of the political forces seem to be out of the question. And we, I sincerely say, understand the times, times and ways by which this institution is governed, believe that we have come to this Parliament and to the rest of the institutions to be brave and to take steps beyond what has been established. And therefore, with our motion we intend to take another step to ensure quality throughout the first cycle of Child Education, which, as we have already told you, seems to us to be a basic and fundamental educational stage in human development. While we should be grateful, because other speakers have already commented, for the willingness of all groups to negotiate, it is a pity, Mr Álvarez, Mrs Ubera, Mr Pastor and Mrs Bengoechea, that you have decided in bulk not to expand this debate and to address concrete measures that are demanded by different actors in the educational community and that, without any doubt, contribute to the development of a truly equitable, inclusive and quality Basque education system, and that guarantee equality of opportunity and social cohesion, and that it is also the ones that we presented in our motion. As far as school transport is concerned, we have already said this in this House a few days ago, families request that first-class children be included in the decree as authorized transporters and also demand that the number of places be guaranteed and that road safety regulations and the technical characteristics of approvals be thoroughly reviewed. For Elkarrekin Podemos it is the duty of the Department of Education and this Government to facilitate reconciliation to families and offer educational quality. And despite what you think, Mr. Álvarez, this department is moving forward, but it is moving very slowly. And we act responsibly and consistently, because transport is only a part of it, and we also want it to be recorded here. We therefore consider the most complete and concrete of the amendments and compromise proposals that we have signed together with the People's Group and EH Bildu, which, as we have already raised in our call for full control, call for the revision and amendment of the decree to adapt it to the real needs of the student, in coordination with the public educational institutions and that, in this way, no pupil in the Basque Country is left without school transport, paying particular attention to those children who live and study in rural areas and of course do not forget to ensure the transport of all young people in the rural environment, both in baccalaureate and in vocational training, through interdepartmental and interinstitutional coordination. While a diagnosis of the situation is being carried out and the actual needs currently in place in school transport are being studied in order to bring it into line with existing regulations, it is essential to put in place interim measures to respond to the urgent needs of the school transport of pupils in the first cycle of child education during this course. As long as we solve what we have to solve, it is essential that we take the necessary steps to give families a solution, because they themselves have told us that they have a problem. And finally, as families demand, and from the common sense, to review the road safety regulations and the technical characteristics of the approvals well, so that going to study and go to class does not pose a danger to our children, and all the students go to their centers in conditions of optimal safety. Mr Alvarez, you will not travel safely when safety was the reason why two-year-old boys and girls were banned from getting on the bus, and if they did so it was under the responsibility of public institutions. For this reason, we have amended this issue and it seemed to us very important that, as long as the decree was amended, pupils should go to the centres and schools safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u19	Well, quickly. I understand that from the opposition it has to be demanding, that's what they have to do and that's what I would do, if I found the role of opposition, and that's what we did when we exercised opposition, but we also have to keep in mind that life is not black and white, it's gray and nuances. Life is full of nuances, any problem has them and this too, and that's why we tried to make an important approach. Because it is not true that from the groups we are supporting the Government we refused to discuss the issues. The theme of the first cycle of early childhood education as a subject of study was incorporated in the course of last day and into the night; the problem of 16- and 18-year-olds in rural areas was also incorporated; the possibility of giving a broader dimension to the revision of the transport model was incorporated. All of that got on top of the table. There was a point where it was not considered sufficient and the agreement could not be reached. But I agree with what Mrs Bengoechea said: it is very similar to the texts that have been blocked by some and others, and I still think that the agreement could have been possible, well, perhaps at some point a situation of certain vertigo was reached, saying so far, if it does not seem that I do not play the role that belongs to me as opposition. And I think you can be bold and brave, as Mrs García said, but you also have to know how to be useful, because if you don't just stay in an expression of scarecrow that serves what it serves, to put them in a photo. And then, man, you were complaining that we didn't want to go into one of the debates that you were raising and that I think it's important, but there are times when things can't be considered as if this was a punch, when it's taken for granted, and to see if there's luck and it's rich or we're indigested. And sometimes you have to put things up with clean food. So, let's start with one part of the menu and then the other. Because there are more days than pots, following the gastronomic similitude. And that issue which you raise, and which we also find interesting, will also have to be discussed in this Parliament, or in the Committee on Education, or where it corresponds, and I am sure you will, I have no doubt that you will, but I think this was the time. And this debate arose because a concern was being raised by some families that schools, at the moment, when they had to take responsibility, refused to process transportation. And I'm glad that you've talked about safety, because I was surprised that so far no one seems to be talking about it, and I don't have children of school age now, but I would have been very worried about just ensuring school transport, if I don't have the assurance that it's going in the right security conditions. And for today, as far as I am aware, there is no currently approved system that can meet that need for legal compliance with security measures. He'll have to show up sometime. It doesn't exist. We've all done a bit of looking elsewhere and hoping nothing will happen. But it's obvious that the kids, the little ones, I don't say the haur-eskolak anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u20	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u21	Thank you again, Mr. President. Ms. Ubera, you asked yourself what happens in the course of the day or in the schools, ask the 21,000 students who move in their everyday life. Mrs Bengoechea, see if we can be improved that, in fact, the Department of Education, with the help of Councillor Uriarte, presented a plan to improve the education system with different challenges, different concrete objectives and also with concrete deadlines and indicators. See if we are improveable and if we also have that desire to improve every day. You said that 93% of schooling in these age groups could be a danger. For us, of course, it is a pride, more, if we can, if we compare it with that scarce 58% average in this same age group at state level. We are also somewhat shocked that on the one hand you believe a bit of vertigo that 93% and in the meantime your partner today, in this tripartite that you have created for this initiative, demands in one of your points in the original motion that schooling campaigns be carried out in these age bands to increase even schooling. Of course it draws our attention that you and Elkarrekin We can contrast so much on these points and yet you have reached an agreement that you have signed. Mrs García, on the thread of this last comment to Mrs Bengoechea about these campaigns of early schooling among vulnerable groups, and also on the thread that not all the balls should fall on the roof of the Department of Education, which is something that you, as president of the Education Commission, know firsthand, that both in the committees and in this plenary it seems that all the responsibilities are of the department. We think it's something shared. More, if it is possible, for example I am a councillor at the City Hall of Sestao, I am not a councillor of education, but it is a department that stays close and I know and understand that we are not the only municipality that does it, that to anyone who comes to our town hall, to any neighbor or neighbor, for the responsibility that we have with them, we offer all kinds of information related to educational centers, educational offer... Even on many occasions we contact centres with families and anyone who comes to our town hall. And this comes to the point that not everything should fall off the roof of the Department of Education, it is a shared responsibility, and more so as we are or belong to public administrations, responsibility is shared and on the part of all and of all we must face them. And you were also talking about the implementation of the resolution of the child and family monograph of this same plenary. I feel very close to Mr Urrutia, who was on the part of our group as our spokesman, I know and, indeed, I doubt very much that no one from this Government will take lightly the resolutions of this Parliament, let alone when we are talking about children and families and the demographic challenge, which on many occasions the Lehendakari Urkullu and other advisers from this Government have said is a country challenge. I doubt very much that anyone will take them lightly, and in fact we know that the department itself is already working and studying the ways to be able to comply with these resolutions. In short, that would be all. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u22	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote EHG, the Basque Populars, and the half-correction that Podemos has signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u23	So, you're supposed to accept the half-directional correction. Second point on the subject list: "The mayor of Moscow, María del López de Ocariz lópez de Munez de Munai, a member of the American laws of the Basque Group, about the increase of diesel tax. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. López de Octariz's turn is to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u24	Good morning, thank you, Madam President, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Last October 5th we were asking the councilwoman about the war that has been waged against the diesel and the consequences that it is having on this autonomous community. Ladies and gentlemen, we should first of all say how this situation unfolds. She announced the Spanish Government's Minister of Ecological Transition: "The diesel has the days counted in Spain", arguing that it is to avoid environmental impact and especially for the polluting particles that we breathe in the cities derived from these engines, and appealing, of course, to the effects that this can cause on the health of citizens. It is clear, and we have concrete data, that these words of the Minister, the announcement by the President of the Government of a diesel tax, already have concrete data. Gas oil vehicles have been stigmatized and a whole sector has been sentenced. This war against diesel has led to an increase in the average carbon dioxide emissions of new vehicles, and this is because almost all the sales quota lost by diesel engines has been earned by petrol, which generates more CO. 2 We already warned him in the interpellation and now we have the study that confirms it. The state-of-the-art diesels emit 20% less than their gasoline rivals, but they are already stigmatized, someone has already worried, without any data, about stigmatizing them. And as in Euskadi the rejection of diesel is even more radical, we have, as I say, in the Basque Country, in the worst situation in Spain in this evolution. Measured CO emissions 2 of the new cars sold in Euskadi between January and September this year have been fired at 121 grams per kilometer traveled, the Basque Country at the head of the list of CO emissions 2 , the ones with the most CO 2 We broadcast. The buyer changes diesel for gasoline, the hybrid is the only alternative technology that is being registered at 5%. And the counselor said, "The criminalization of diesel damages Euskadi." This after almost three months, but knowing this the government has done nothing, nothing and, moreover, shut up until last week, except for the deputy general of Álava who timidly asked for certainty that the automotive industry and the automotive sector would not be damaged, and said that a fundamental element for the economy is for fiscal stability. We must give certainty to companies and this is missing from the Spanish Government, conveying security and certainty, because, in fact, this war on diesel as well as putting us at the top of the list of autonomous communities than the higher percentage of CO 2 We broadcast per kilometre traveled, it also affects fully the automotive industry and the automotive sector of the Basque Country, and especially in Vitoria to the Mercedes factory. I was saying it in the interpellation and I'm going to repeat it because it seems they're not aware of what's going on. In the Basque Country, the share in sales of diesel engines fell to 32%, 5 points below the national average of 37%. This affects us in full, it affects the Mercedes factory in full, 85% of the vehicles leaving the assembly lines are diesel, the latest generation diesel at the moment. The management warned of the risk that this crisis would cease to be a short-term one in order to become structural. Mercedes Factory that has already stopped five days in October, has also agreed to stop in November another five, and stop the night shift for a month. A thousand workers in the air, because ladies and gentlemen, under the "blah, blah, blah" of the energy transition, what is it? That's what they keep saying. Who has the capacity to buy an electric vehicle? Are you all millionaires, maybe? How much does an electric vehicle cost? How much does your maintenance cost? How much do the batteries pollute? Do we technically have the means to make that transition that you hear you're asking for? What is the energy mix we have? What do we produce electricity with, ladies and gentlemen? Yesterday the energy mix of the Basque Country was nuclear 22,6 %; coal 20,26 %; wind 2,77 %; solar-photovoltaic 1,36 %. This was yesterday's energy mix, the monitoring of demand energy. With this, what do we generate? Electricity. And what is this? What is it? We're contaminating, of course. And this is the solution you have? We tabled a motion to this situation and we tabled it because we understand that we have 5,600 workers affected by the diesel war in Mercedes, because we have 45,000 in the automotive sector in Álava. These data are tremendous for the population of 240,000 inhabitants, which is Vitoria and its surroundings. 50,000 jobs at risk. 600 have already gone to unemployment this month. And this tax improves emissions? No, no, Of course not, it hurts them. Especially in the Basque Country we get worse emissions and lead us to top the list of higher CO emissions 2 per kilometre travelled. All the experts say this: the solution is to remove the older vehicles from the roads. It's clear. New generation diesel vehicles with few emissions are essential in the transition period, but we have already stigmatised them, we have cornered them and we have already told the citizens that diesel, in general, has the days counted. This is the irresponsibility of a government, from the minister to the president. The electric car? The electric car seems to be going to be the future, but, ladies and gentlemen, as I said, we are in diapers, we have no infrastructure, they are expensive, they have little autonomy... I would say to them and say to them that we are presenting a motion that he wants and that says: "That the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to mediate with the President of the Government of Spain to immediately renounce the imposition of a diesel tax for the serious damage it can cause to the automotive industry in the Basque Country, especially in Álava and Spain as a whole. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to mediate with the President of the Government of Spain to put an end to the constant correction in fiscal matters that generates enormous uncertainty and puts investments, jobs, with a serious socio-economic impact in the Basque Country and especially in Álava. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, together with the sectors concerned, to bet on an orderly, planned and coordinated ecological transition that does not put jobs and investments at risk and that envisages the urgent implementation of a plan for the renewal of old diesel vehicles for the Basque Country". Because, ladies and gentlemen, how many plans does it renew? And we also have the fourth point where the "Vasco Parliament considers it appropriate to guarantee fiscal stability, legal certainty and certainty that are fundamental to underpin, maintain and promote the economic development of our territory". We urge "the Basque Government to transmit to the citizens the reality from knowledge with precise data, so that we all contribute to an increasingly sustainable mobility from an environmental, social and economic point of view". Tell the truth to the citizens. Amendments have been tabled to this motion. Someone told me there's a compromise amendment. I haven't seen her. I appreciate the detail of making it available to us. I appreciate the detail, because I couldn't see it. Perhaps it contradicts your amendments, I don't know. For example, the groups supporting the Government made a first point in their amendment which said: "The Basque Parliament is concerned about the impact that the debate on diesel is having on the automotive industry and the auxiliary industry." Oh, does it have an impact? We didn't know; it's the first news. Except for the deputy general and the lady counselor last week, we didn't know it was an incident. Good thing they recognize him! But they recognize more because it urges the various public and private actors to act responsibly. It means that you are calling yourselves "irresponsible", "irresponsible" to the Government of Spain, "irresponsible" you who have named it, because that government "irresponsible", which you say here, have named it, moreover, without the attendance of the citizens, by the back door, because in order not to stigmatise unjustifiably industrial sectors and thus avoid negative effects on industry and employment in Euskadi. Thank you very much, because you fully agree with our initiative. I think here, what you say in abstract, we say it in real terms. In other words, the tax is negative, it is harmful and, moreover, the irresponsibility of the Spanish Government has stigmatized the diesel. Therefore, both the new generation and the old generation are stigmatized, all of them. They've done us terrible harm. In point two, "the Basque Parliament urges the various administrations", the groups that support the government, eh, "the various competent administrations to take measures that give safety to the automotive sector". Look, they have a government. Don't they put duties on these gentlemen? Isn't that your government? What competent administrations do they appeal to? It's an abstract initiative. I mean, they have a government, put duties on them. What are you guys doing here? No, they're not to rule. What are they for? To occupy the seat? To get fat? What are they for? If you don't know how to give solutions and you don't tell them that you can give solutions either. What a barbarity! He says, and let's get started, someone, a renova renova renova plan Frankly, it's amazing, isn't it? And then, well, we're told that public administrations, states, Europeans, then they start with the fan and they run it all around the world, which is responsible for everything that happens. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Basque Nationalist Group should think of the Basques, it should think of the Basque curls to which they are going to impose a tax that hinders and puts their work at risk. They're not thinking about the Basques, they're thinking about their eagerness to get those transfers they've promised them. That's where they're at, they're at nothing else. And you can go along with the rest to Mercedes to explain to the workers why their workload, Mercedes's workload, has dropped, why it has dropped. Because there is an irresponsible government that has announced that the diesel will disappear. That is why the tax has not been applied. And it is not the tax, it is an irresponsible government that, without looking at the consequences, speaks, has verbal incontinence and does harm, and you applaud and support it. You are responsible for what is going on and what is going to happen in the whole sector, when the whole transport sector is getting the diesel, which is going to have an impact on the whole service sector, and that makes us more and poorer, which is what these gentlemen are looking for with their agreements that they sign. Bildu has also made an amendment and also acknowledges that this tax has negative effects on Álava and the 50 families directly. He says it has regressive effects. I don't know what "regressive" means, I think they are negative, they impoverish us and they have touched our jobs, the workload of our companies and put them at risk. That's it. That I don't know if it's "regressive" or is a word to divert. They continue with the energy transition, what do we agree!, but, listen, ladies and gentlemen, where is it? Who can buy an electric car? You can buy an electric car, but others can't? Most of the curls that use diesel for their work cannot be bought an electric car. Because what autonomy does the electric car have? But the best of Bildu's amendment is the sixth point, which says: "The Basque Parliament urges the government to increase its inspection work in order to prevent companies in the sector from using this debate to worsen the working conditions of workers." Look, look, you're in Madrid, you can vote no to the tax and it's not approved. So now, do not come to stigmatise the company because a tax will be applied that will undermine its workload, because you are going to vote in favour, you have voted in favour of the government and you are going to vote in favour of the tax. And he says that maybe the company is taking advantage of this debate. What do you mean, this debate? No, it's just that he's already reduced his workload, he's already reduced his workload. There are already workers who see their jobs at risk and in the entire automotive sector, which is not only Mercedes, which is the entire automotive sector, 45,000 families in Vitoria. And you already put the doubt in the company. Hey, we're still inspecting you guys. Why are you going to support this tax? What do they take in return? Tell me, of course, here to inspect the company assuming what... Man, look, I think it's a pasty to put the doubt in the company. And then already the Podemos amendment is much of the higher degree that they have taken, the preferred group for the management of Spain. You are enjoying it, you are delighted with the socialists, and these gentlemen also applaud you. Well, listen, well, you guys are enjoying it. There is nothing useful about your amendment, I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u26	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. We will now discuss the motion of the Populative Party, and in this motive a direct relation is made of the proposal of changing the taxes of the Gasoli, and is connected with the damages of the motor-makers; and it is said that it will have a serious influence both in the community and in the Araban, and that it is said that Mercedes will receive damage from these taxies from the gasol. We must say, that it is not true, that this relationship does not exist between the amount of gas oil and the state of the vehicle industry. And we'll also say that there's no serious social influence either Euskedin or Aran. It is false this relationship established by the People's Party between a possible rise in diesel taxes and the situation of the automotive industry, neither Spanish nor Basque. It's a fake relationship. Moreover, it is false that a possible rise will have a serious socio-economic effect, not only on industry, but on the economy. Moreover, it is curious that this motion refers to the effects on the economy and not on people, because, if any effect can have this debate, that of both diesel and the situation of the automotive industry, it is on people. And nothing is said in this motion about people. Nothing is said about people, for example, who suffer from the pollution caused by diesel; it is not said about the hundreds of thousands of people who have bought diesel vehicles that have more emissions than they are entitled to; and it is not said at all about the potential workers of the car factories who, as a result of this summer snake, will remain on the street. I am going to refer directly to the situation of Mercedes, because in your motion, Mrs López de Ocariz, you do not say the word Mercedes, but, however, in all your speech it does transcend, because you know the importance that Mercedes has in Araba. It is especially serious to play in this way with concepts. Mercedes last year had a record vehicle production in its history: 150,000 vehicles for the first time in its history. Next year it's going to exceed this record and it's going to beat another record: 156,000 vehicles. Mercedes is better than ever. And the reduction that has been made in the orders is little by 2%. But Mercedes also exports 90% of its production. In other words, a tax on Mercedes in Spain does not have a noticeable impact on it. Not at all! But in addition, one out of every three vehicles that Mercedes produces is luxury. More than 60,000 euros, three times more than any electric vehicle. Anyone who buys a luxury car, even diesel, of course has the purchasing ability to pay taxes even if they are charged. But that is not the question, that is not the question. The question is why Mercedes reduced its production prospects just in September and just after the minister made the declarations regarding the diesel tax. Why on the same day that the minister made those statements, Anfac issued a statement warning of serious consequences for employment and industry if diesel is stopped? Why just on the same day as the minister, Anfac, who is the automotive lobby, pulls out that statement? And just after, most of Spain's automotive plants are starting to produce job-cutting ads. The only objective of these cuts is to condition this debate. And it's something that, I could even say, coming from a lobby is legitimate, but it's not real. There is no such thing as a real debate. Mr Otero in his amendment makes an express reference to Mercedes' working conditions, and since we are analysing Mercedes, we do have to make reference to this issue. Look, this reduction of just 2% in Mercedes production is actually going to mean that around 500 eventuals are going on the street. Mercedes has a policy, allowed by all governments, including the Chamber, including the Basque Government, whereby eventuals charge about 400 euros less than fixed staff; at the same job, different wages. The excuse is that they have a clause in the convention whereby for seven years they have to go, say, gaining the merit of being equal to the fixed ones. What does Mercedes do once in a while? When they're already approaching those seven years, he fires them and hires others. A law fraud that has been reported by trade unions for several years. The Labour Inspectorate of the Basque Government. What Mercedes is going to do with this supposed downsizing is to fire 200 people and replace them with others. That, exclusively, is to improve their benefits, which are already penguins, and which we do not talk about either, and it is not appropriate today to talk about them, and to replace 200 eventuals by another 200 people. That's the consequence he's going to have and in his motion he says nothing about these people. It's about 5,000 people affected. Don't you know that Mercedes has a work bag for which if there is no work for a year, the following year, let's say, they recover those hours? They don't go out on the street, not at all. Not at all! But, well, I would like to focus on what the Minister of Ecological Transition said when she said the diesel had the days numbered. He said three things. In addition to having the days counted, he said: "It will last longer or less, but we know that its impact on particles and the air we breathe is important enough to think about an exit process." He also said that the process has to be accompanied with facilities that allow us to change the pattern of our private vehicles. The car park needs to be improved. The minister has already said so. And that, in addition, the cost of buying a car from one category or another is not reflecting the actual cost of the impact it has. Indeed, the European Union has been telling us for 10 years that the imposition of the diesel that Spain has is well below the European average, and well below the petrol average, and that it is not sustainable to have it that way. Now, we can discuss how to make that tax hike, because obviously those who have bought a diesel vehicle do not have to be the ones who pay that, and above all the lower incomes. Hence Mr Otero's "regressive" word, which is also included in our amendment. It cannot be that a new diesel tax really imposes a greater burden on those who have less, because if diesel vehicles are the cheapest, in fact, we cannot now treat those who have bought the cheapest vehicles because they do not have other resources, right now be those who pay the duck exclusively for this situation. But the real situation is that the diesel pollutes more. And I'm going to nuance it: the diesel engine has greater contaminant potential than traditional engines. It has greater contaminant potential and, in addition, it has an additional load, and it is that diesel engine manufacturers have made traps. Those who have established the stigma are the manufacturers of diesel engines, not just Volkswagen, because the other day Mr.Imaz in a surprising article the less he said that the only culprit was Volkswagen. No, they've recognized cheating Volkswagen, Renault, Mazda, Honda, Nissan, Mitsubishi and Mercedes. So is Mercedes. Therefore, the stigma was established by the manufacturers and the concern was established by the manufacturers who in Spain have sold 700,000 vehicles that pollute more than they claimed to pollute. And those who are now trapped by that are the ones who bought those vehicles. But I am going to finish my first speech by saying that while the debate on the effect of the tax on the car industry is false, there is another debate that is not false, and it is the real threats that the Basque car sector has and that are: one, the price of fuels, and two, the shortage of raw materials. Indeed, we will not be able to replace all combustion vehicles with electric vehicles, and that is already being assumed by almost all technology consultants, who say that the global automotive market is going to contract at least 20%. And for that it does have to be prepared our economy, that is a real debate that is not being faced here. That is why our proposal which, by the way, I am glad that we will be able to negotiate, because Mrs Tapia herself assumed it. The Basque car sector needs to think about planning its transition, its future conversion, in order to maintain employment and productive capacity and devote it to all issues. I'm done, Madam President. This is a sterile debate, the question is whether we can turn it into a useful and productive debate. Of course, talking about the relationship between diesel and a possible Mercedes crisis is a false debate. Let us use it, at least, to plan for the future, that that is a debate we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u27	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u28	Thank you, President, and good morning to everyone and everyone. I believe that the issue of diesel, which we are debating today and which the People's Party is bringing to us, deserves a serious and content-based analysis, without using any specific company, and above all without failing to tell the truth about what is happening in it. It is much more than a general holder and much less than a widespread alarm without sustained economic, technical and environmental criteria. We are faced with a new political commitment from a progressive government that understands the need to confront a new productive one, in which special attention will be paid to energy and environmental aspects, hence the space from which this proposal arises in the Spanish government, which is the Ministry of Ecological Transition, something that would never have happened in a right-wing government. Climate change is not just an environmental issue. To face climate change is to face the problems of equity and social justice. To face global warming is to accept that the premises for economic decision-making have changed, to be taken by those who take them, a citizen, a SME, a large corporation, a local government or an autonomous government. In this House we have discussed the subject of the energy model in countless initiatives, meaning it as a global umbrella. Socialists are committed to a renewable and low-carbon model. We want this to happen quickly and through an energy transition as consensual as possible with all the actors involved. In today's proposal the People's Party urges the Government of Spain and its President directly. Already in June the PSOE put this topic on the table, it was announced the proposal to match the types of taxes that car diesel and gasoline bear. It is also true that the door was left open to raise the diesel tax in a step-by-step way. This measure is part of a clear commitment to environmental policy. In order to push it forward, a new tax was proposed, which included the repeal of the sun tax and a commitment to clean energy, far away from the policy of the People's Party. All these measures, none new, all known and announced in President Rajoy's motion of censure, therefore, this is no occurrence, Mrs López de Ocariz. Since 2012, the WHO has considered the smoke of the carcinogen diesel after being verified in a scientific way – there are also reports of this – fleeing from that dual language between the one that most pollutes and the one that least CO 2 It is also necessary to know a little before making certain statements. One of the reasons for defending the need to reduce the use of diesel is also a matter of defending the right to health. We cannot look elsewhere until it is too late, we must face reality with serenity, rigour and social equity. The President of the Government has expressed the Government's willingness to review the taxation of diesel in the context of a green tax amendment. This is a matter that goes beyond the automotive industry that, of course, concerns the Ministry of Industry, and even goes beyond what the Ministry of Finance competent in the matter of taxes has to say. It is an issue important enough and thoughtful enough for it to have been ratified by the President of the Government. Taxation is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, which leads all initiatives without prejudice to the support offered by the Ministry of Ecological Transition. Green taxation must be a clear signal to guide actors towards a carbon-neutral and climate-resilient economy model. In Euskadi soon the climate change law will be a reality that marks an itinerary and proposes some demands. In Spain, the law on climate change and energy transition is already under way and work is, of course, being done in a coordinated way with the Ministry of Finance, so that fiscal tools can accelerate economic model change. As Minister Rivera said this very Monday at a breakfast, "the decarbonization of transport is a process that is already underway and it is convenient for Spanish manufacturers to position themselves in the production of zero-emission vehicles, if they do not want to lose competitiveness in the future with regard to Asian manufacturers, because it cannot evolve without looking at what is happening in the world". The technological evolution of the electric car will also play an important role, also in electrification of demand both because of the impetus given to the development of batteries and because the increase in market share of this type of vehicle will lead to a significant increase in the demand for electricity. An urgent task is to provide the country with the necessary support and recharge infrastructure and boost everything that has to do with the electric car. In addition, the promotion of these technologies in the transport sector represents, in the current economic context, a challenge and opportunity for a number of strategic sectors such as energy, automotive and information and communication technologies, from an industrial, technological, energy and environmental point of view. Of course, we cannot live on the sidelines of such a profound process of change in mobility, especially with the great opportunity it represents for your car industry. This kind of process, we understand, is progressive, and requires coordination of a set of measures by a set of administrations, from local to international. And this is not to put the fan, it is that this is not only decided by the Basque Government or decided by Spain; in this Europe has much to say and has been warning it for too many years. Of course, this process must be accompanied with ease, especially in particularly affected groups, hence the term "regressive" to which you referred. From the beginning we Socialists have advocated that the necessary and unavoidable ecological transition be also fair and equitable, and we are sure that it will be so. Furthermore, in this context, we cannot ignore the fact that the European Commission has expressly called for any proposal or measure under consideration that would make it possible to move towards the use of fiscal tools to the greater benefit of air quality policy and to avoid encouraging the acquisition and use of vehicles with high emissions. Let us also not forget that the European Commission criticizes Spain for the low level of environmental taxation, and this, of course, does not tell the Sánchez government, it tells the previous government. Brussels reiterates that taxation on this concept remains below the European Union. Spain would have to raise its collection to this level. In addition, countless European cities are already, or have, restrictive measures in place. Look, Mrs López de Ocariz, we are all concerned about the situation of Mercedes Benz, we all know the number of direct and indirect workers that this company essentially involves for Álava, but we have to count things as they are. And he's manipulating himself. You say let's talk to the "currels," you said, about Mercedes. Of course, my parliamentary group has spoken to the Mercedes workers, talked to the unions and talked to the company, and you are not telling the truth, you are manipulating and you know that some of the measures Mercedes is taking in Vitoria are not related to the tax announced by the Spanish Government. You know that Mercedes due to its levels of production, which Mr Becerra has told you, has already come up with the fact of increasing the plant and has those lands on which a logistics plant is being built, which has not stopped one day its operation to reach the final objective of the company. You know that a company that is in a historical record of production, by the fact that it lowers a minimum percentage, does not stop having profits. You know those contracts that are said to have been lost from the diesel, that's not true. Mercedes made special contracts in May that were due to expire on 30 September, under special conditions with special salaries, and it has nothing to do with that end of contracts with the subject of diesel. And you are trying to relate everything to this announcement by the Government of Spain. And I will tell you that you have a problem: you have not assumed that you are outside the government. You said it's an irresponsible government, and no. As far as energy is concerned, the government led by Mr Pedro Sánchez is making decisions that have long been demanded for all that has to do with the environment, with ecology and with what is mandated by Europe. By the way, mandated by Europe and which the People's Party was looking at elsewhere. Some of us are concerned about the workers and about what has to do with well-being, quality of life, air quality and everything that has to do with the workers, also Mercedes-Benz; and others, well, in the end, they work in other kinds of interests. But don't manipulate yourself. Gas had a tax and diesel didn't. And that's the problem that's always been. And you will have to understand that the ecology, the environment and the development of the car company goes in a direction that, apart from pointing to Europe, there is a bet on a change of energy process that you do not accept – we have already seen what proposals Mr Rajoy's government was carrying and that now with a progressive government and with support from left-wing parties you are trying to turn around the barbarities that a right-wing party has made. But do not manipulate, because the diesel tax is not what you have told us. He told us about a report. I can give you many reports on Europe and, of course, I think we should be responsible Basque parties and not use the situation of a particular company to tell us another reality. Because I'll tell you it's true, that in Alava the number of workers that Mercedes has is enormous. But in Valencia there's a lot more Renault, in Aragon there's a lot more, in Catalonia... Because the automotive company affects all of Spain. And look what you're thinking in the rest of the autonomous communities, and certainly don't use the name of a company for your own benefit, because I don't know what gives me that workers don't think what you think.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u29	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u30	Good morning, Chief of Parliament. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, there's an example of eucay, I think I've ever used it here again, there was a great deal of ours saying: "Hear me, daughter-in-law," I think you've done it a little, because all your discussion you've been watching our team and other teams, but the stream you sent goes over there to Mrs. Tapia. You've been leading everything to socializing, but you've been looking at us. Madame Tapia told you on the day of interpelation that you started your speech from grief, and I think it was time for you to overcome it, otherwise it would be difficult to discuss it calmly. And "stegmatization" has been mentioned. We have entered it, you have mentioned it, and Mr. Becerra has mentioned it, and I believe that we must all have it clearly, and that this is why we put it in our full correction, that it is the care of those which are the stigmatisation, and that our care may be taken, if the discourse here be taken care of. The way we discuss it may stigmatize this discussion if we proceed to it. If we use this debate as a bold stone and in the spirit of securing the squid as we are interested in and taking advantage of situations that may be harmful to some sectors, then in the end, from the irresponsibility of all the public and private actors, we will be able to stigmatise and make the debate not develop in a responsible, calm and rigorous way, which is what we asked for, and also in the compromise amendment that we have signed. You also referred to the Euskadi energy mix, and Tapia said she had done nothing. I believe that Mrs Tapia, both in your question and in the Committee on Economic Development, on 24 September, when the Sustainable Mobility Plan was presented, and if not in her public statements, always speaks meridian clearly and expresses her concern about this issue over and over again. And he always says that the steps that have to be taken must always be to think about the consequences that all measures will have in the private sphere as well. I remember that in that committee, the transcript is not yet available, but we do have the videos, and reviewing it, it said: "It is necessary to introduce aspects of taxation and other actions in favour of vehicles that are less polluting, but we also have to take into account what the consequences are and therefore take steps step by step, so that it does not affect and impact both private and public, so that these measures cannot be taken in the short, medium and long term." Of course, it has always manifested itself in this regard. You were appealing, and in the motion you refer to the necessary fiscal stability, and you will hear us one and a thousand times to our group appeal to the necessary stability. Man, but they've got noses. Let me say, Mrs López de Ocariz, that you, who from your group are asking and saying that Basque taxation has to change in some ways when we just reached an agreement, when we just arrived at an agreement a little while ago, are calling for fiscal stability on this issue, because you look at it when it's been as it is. "To send balloons out to Europe," you said on the subject of taxation, Mrs López de Ocariz. Well, I don't think that's too strict either. They have already commented: Europe's demands for progress in this area are not from now on. When Rajoy was in government, the European Commission also asked him to do so. "The European Commission has again pointed to Spain for its low taxation on environmental taxes and, in particular, on diesel." "Environmental taxes are still below the EU", and we could see headlines like these, that Rajoy will also increase the diesel tax on autonomous financing. There has been talk about this debate and I think it is important to clarify some concepts. There's no new tax. Becerra, you said "the new diesel tax." There's no new tax. The tax already exists and, moreover, is established in the European Union with a directive, and what happens is that the State exercises its capacity to increase the minimum rate, because it is the only capacity that the State, if any, has, or the historical territories, in the case of excise duties. In other words, minimum rates are set by the European Union and can be raised. Let us say that what was so far was a bonus; it is not that a new tax is now established, but that it is a bonus and what is done is to establish a recharge on what already existed. The diesel tax is an environmental tax and is governed by the principle of the most polluter pays; this means that this tax would have to be aimed at zero. Why? Because the reasonable thing is that as more environmentally sustainable measures are being taken, there would be no need for this, but to the extent that this zero trend does not reach its limit, since the polluter pays the most. I was already telling them that no new tax has been created, but that the Government of the State is proposing to increase this current type of tax, in order to progressively equip it with petrol in a few years. "Regressive design," you meant, Mr. Becerra. The non-regressive design of excise duties is not the power of the Government of the State, for the reason I was telling you earlier. These taxes are defined by the European Union and the only thing that can be done is to raise them, which is why we in the proposal we made to them in order to reach a compromise amendment told them that a regressive tax cannot be designed, that it escapes from the power and competence of the State, but what can be done is to take complementary measures so that, in some way, it can be advanced or compensated, if necessary, if there are regressive effects on this tax. And as for the finalist character, which we were also insisting on, you said that everything could be devoted to this kind of environmental measures. This is not a finalist tax. What is being done is to collect everything and to finance the various public policies and, from there, part of it will be devoted, among other things, to the measures we propose in our initiative. Well, you, Łódź de Okariz, have read our full correction, but you haven't read it all. For us, as a team, this is our speech. Some things have been shut up in the middle of the road, as we do in so many other disputes. And we declare, of course, that the controversy about the diesel on account of its influence on the industry of cars, and that we have asked all public and private agents to act carefully. We ask to take measures in all the institutions which have jurisdiction, which give security to the automoctionor, to attract investments and maintain employment, because that's one of our principal cares. And, for instance, we've also planned the half-rational correction, the revene renove. And, well, at other points, he asks the state and the public administration of Europe to take measures to speed up alternative fuel, more efficient and more permanent vehicles. And that's what the chief physician asked for on the September committee he had just mentioned. I think the agreement we make is important, and it's important to start from respect in such controversies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u32	Yes, good noon to all. Well, we could start by saying or we could just say that this discussion was a discussion that had to be given in Madrid. We could also say that the most important thing for us in the discussion of taxes would be to talk about the transfer. Or we might say that PP, Popular Party, is going on with a kaina for fishing in this case, doing cheap populism, etc., is suddenly a friend of the "golden" and can't pass the mood of losing the government of Madrid. But once the discussion came on the table, it seemed important to us to say or say things that come from here, didn't it? And I must say, in the first place, that there has been no will to agree with it. Here it is the proprieties that the other corrections have seen and then proposed something, and to say the contrary is at least a little surprising. It is true, and I must confess that it was not easy, for there was a sympathise from the start with Podemos and Mr. Becerra, but it is certain that at first there were rather great differences between the corrections which the Communist Party and the Socialists introduced. Finally, I think we've got a minimum of consensus, and at least we'll make something positive and suggest, or we'll go with it. I think we send a clearer message to the public, to the people in general, to those who are concerned with the matter of the diesel, and to all the workers in the sector and in the sector. But, to say this, it seems to me that there must be at least two or three elements to be considered here, because the discussion has been very ill settled. When we speak here about the stigmatization, or the discussion of the diesel, what may result in the sector. It seems to us that though some things have been mentioned, we must say a few more things. It is clear here that the discussion of the diesel is not dangerous to the sector, but that it is true that the sector has more and more important problems, and if a deep change does not come, we wish to push them towards it, that there will be trouble in the future. Then we should put aside some discussion about the diesel tax. Porque el debare ébasel blance ha dicho aquaí yaí no es unaquistión de nuevo impusto de una custión de unaquiparación bajo el principio cepeo untido tambien que tenente tenmos que que que queen contaga. What we've known and know is that with the diesel something was going on "anonymize it," let's say. That is to say, although it is very questionable that you, some will say that after the Euro 6 standard, the pollution that comes from diesel and petrol could be comparable, in any case, what is clear is that emissions from the current diesel fleet are causing more pollution than gasoline; in any case, it does not make much sense to pay about 28% less direct excise duty on diesel, as was happening. And this responds to other things that I'm going to explain later. What is clear is that now you, Mrs López de Ocariz, come to raise the flag of no to the diesel tax or not to equalization, or not to what I know what, but while you have been in government, you have been asking for a series of reports and all reports were in the same direction. The famous Lagares report, on the possibilities of tax reform that could be made, which Montoro requested in 2014, concluded very clearly that "government should increase the taxation of the litre of diesel to levels, at least, equivalent to those of the litre of petrol and should raise the price of diesel even further if differences in local pollution costs are not reflected in the price of fuels". This very thing, because it was taken out of there, is not because it came later in the OECD reports, but this very thing was said by the committee of experts that you convened for the energy transition, that there were representatives of all the groups, less ours, and that you voted in favour. And they also said the same thing, that there has to be an equalization, because, as little they pollute the same – because pollution is not just CO 2; they are nitrogen oxides, they are particles of 2.5 microns, etc.–, to equal pollution, had to be paying the same. But something else was happening here and something else is happening, which is one of the major fundamental problems we have with the diesel debate. And it is that an environmental tax, which has to be effectively aimed at improving the environmental quality of all citizens, was not being used either under the assumption that the polluter pays, nor for that purpose, but was designed and pushed, of course, by the car lobby, which is the most cutting edge in Europe, to compensate for a competitiveness problem that diesel had with respect to gasoline. I guess we've all been in the dealership or many of us will have been and you'll have been in a dealership buying a car or thinking about buying it, and the question always comes up: "How many kilometers are you going to make a year, 10, 15, 20,000?" Because it depends on how much you're going to walk you're going to spend about X liters and that difference makes you lie down for one or the other. So it cannot be that an environmental tax is being used to fill that competitiveness gap that is having an entire sector. So, in this sense, we cannot now deny the debate that is being proposed from the Sánchez Government and from Minister Rivera, because everything has to go to a place and then if different thrusts, aids, plans, programs have to come, we will see. But this is an attempt at ordination, and what you're trying to do is through this discussion that there's about how it's going to affect and who it's going to affect, all of a sudden appearing as friends of Mercedes's curlers and the whole sector, let's say. So, let's try to put everything in place. It's not the only problem and it's not the biggest. And I'm going to show you a photo, I'm not doing it with a bad intention, I'm telling you seriously, this is the balance or this is the dynamic that has had the percentage of diesel sales while the seagull has been in the Moncloa. Understand the metaphor. You took over the government in 2011 and the diesel ratio was 70%. You left this spring and the diesel ratio was 35%. Sure, you can say you've loaded half the diesel sector, right? No, you're going down here and you're going to say no, that you haven't done anything to go against the diesel. And it's true. And yet, and without doing anything to go against the diesel, the diesel has dropped from 70 percent to 35 percent. That means that the problem is elsewhere, the problem is not that now through the diesel tax it will stigmatize one sector, but that there is one sector that has stigmatised itself because the problems it had to pass the increasingly demanding environmental standards have led to two things. It has led them, one, to cheat legally and, when they have not been able directly, to cheat illegally. How did they legally cheat? And this is looking right now. Because after the dieselgate 2 , which were emitting the diesels. With this now we have a fabulous problem that is that despite being with Euro 5, Euro 6 regulations and having many diesel vehicles on the street with these regulations, it turns out that actual driving tests are telling us that diesel vehicles are polluting more, much more, than they are saying. And the PSOE government has granted them a moratorium so that companies can pass the regulations that will derive from the new protocols, from the WLTP protocol, which is so by its acronyms in English. In other words, there is no war on the diesel from the government. Don't be a catastrophe. The problems come much further, the problems have to do with the difficulty of adapting to the environmental standards to which the rest of the population who are not driving a diesel car is also entitled. And it also has to do with other things in the medium term, and this is going to go not only for diesel but for gasoline, which is that diesel and gasoline are feeding on fuels that are fossil and that are finite, as we all know. With this, and here I look more at the Basque Government, we have two options. We have the option of having a powerful automotive industry and that everything related to mobility gives us much of that trade surplus that we have, because if we have +5 billion in the trade balance, it turns out that the first five sectors in export are related to mobility, and they provide income, of more than 6 billion euros. With this, if the sector suffers, we all know that the trade balance of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa will be very resentful. In the face of this, what we say is that the sector, which is installed, which does not want to die, which wants – I don't know how to say – that it doesn't want anything to move because it is now in a comfortable position and has had governments on its side, we have to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u33	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u34	Yeah, I'm coming. ... we have to, along with them of course, change direction, and we are saying it in transport plans, we are saying it on all sides, but then it turns out that the debate of the diesel, the industry coughs and immediately we put our head under the hole and it can't be. This is a debate that we either face, we understand this as an opportunity for the future or, if not, we will actually have a serious problem in a few years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u35	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Łódź de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, there are no two without three and there we are, on the third time that a socialist government, a Euskadi government, is sinking Spain and in that we are. Every morning we have a surprise and you are co-responsible, yes, co-responsible, so I look at you, because if you do not vote, we would not have that government committing irresponsibility as you say on the first point. Therefore, they are co-responsible for this and for many more atrocities that they point out, as the press announced this morning. So, that's where we're at. He tells me that, of course, Mr Rajoy's government did not extend this tax in 2012. Can you imagine that you had all mounted with a PP government increasing the diesel tax in 2012 in bankruptcy, bankruptcy? Can you imagine the one they'd ride? You guys have a speech for everything. It is now also Mr Rajoy's fault that the tax was not increased in 2012. It was impossible to do that. Or don't you remember how we were? Paying the guateque that were mounted with the renewables. There we were. And more things. So, ladies and gentlemen, don't be cynical. We were getting out of the tunnel, and this makes you very nervous, Mrs. Gorospe, of course it makes you very nervous, and then you have done what you have done is change government, because you in uncertainty grow, get fattened, fatten your pocket and the party, everything, and are very satisfied, that is why you do it and that is why I tell you that you are co-responsible, because you profit from everything in this situation. I told the counselor the other day and I'm telling you now. Yes, you don't want a strong government in Spain. No, because you feel small, you don't see it, but now you're important. That's why they do it. There they are. Why, ladies and gentlemen, who pays for the diesel? The delivery guy, the cab driver, the commercial guy, the farmer... Of course, Mr. Otero, the racer, of course. And at the cost of the racer, we pay the government's guateque, which we'll see what this film ends up in, because, of course, Mr. Otero, says the fossil materials for diesel and gasoline. And for electricity, what do we use? 1.3% renewable? The 2.4 of photovoltaics? But what are we talking about? That is to say, we are in the reality that we have, that we have to have 22% of the nuclear power or 23% of not remember now what it was, well, because 50% of the coal, exactly, then we have the mixes, but it's just... These gentlemen have done nothing to promote wind energy, nothing, because they do not want that debate, ladies and gentlemen, they do not want the debate. And you don't squeeze them either, no, you're quiet. At other times it was tightening, not now, they're quiet. Explain it to me. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Basque Country, which is what I am talking about because if I speak about all of Spain I am told to go to Congress, if I speak of the Basque Country, it is not just the Basque Country, it is true, it is also Spain. Yeah, yeah, it's Spain and it's the Basque Country, and I'm gonna talk about what's affecting us. This government can be very expensive to us in the Basque Country, because we have no initiative from the government, you have not put a single measure to the government to comply. A new plan A compromise amendment that says nothing, nothing. Birds and flowers, energy transition, listen but what a mix we have. It's impossible. We say you can't raise the tax to the diesel. And, in addition, we must destigmatize what the irresponsible government stigmatized, diesel, because it is not the application of the tax, it is the announcement that caused it to fall. Because indeed, Mr Otero, the diesel, 3, 4, 5 %, says Mercedes. You're going to charge Mercedes and Petronor, aren't you? Also, because of course, I don't know, what's going to happen here? Of course it was coming down, but it's been down 20%, but it was the words wrongly said, badly announced, without any prior analysis, without any prior information. Focusing on what it should be, which is the old vehicle, it must be removed. And you haven't taken a step to remove that vehicle, so it won't contaminate. You talk about climate change measures and you haven't put in a measure. That the government can do it. Why don't you put it on? Not a duty to this government, none. And it says to me, "the tax, which must reverse measures for climate change"... Mrs Gorospe has already said that they are not going to do it. You have written it, but you have said that it cannot be, that you will not, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, be aware of what you have signed and what you have put to the vote here. Look, ladies and gentlemen, 70% of the tax increase announced by the PSOE and Podemos is going to fall on the middle class, the lower class and the SMEs. This government is sinking us and you are co-responsible. And this is a very negative step for society and for people. He says I haven't talked about people. Hey, the economic activity who does it, the engines alone! What is behind economic activity?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u37	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u38	Yes, briefly, if they really want to contribute to improving pollution levels, a renewed plan is urgently needed. And Mrs. Gorospe told me that I look at the PNV. Yeah, and I'm gonna keep looking, not just at this, at everything, because this is going in cascade.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u40	You're right, Mrs. Gorospe. It is indeed not a new tax, and I do not think I have said so. I think I said "tax modification project." And it is true that it cannot be designed in a non-regressive way, but the regressive effects if it could have, can be compensated by other additional measures, which is a bit the idea that we have tried to move into our amendment and I believe we have taken up in the compromise amendment. And you're talking about stigmatization. Well, you're right. We must be strict and prudent with words and not stigmatize the diesel fuel. And it's different from the engines that use diesel fuel and diesel. And these, the companies that produce those engines, they themselves have damaged their business. Why did the diesel come down? Because the vehicles have lost their credibility. And it is not that we have put into this dispute; it is in the street that they have committed frauds. And that's why, and because diesel has an abnormal fiscal situation, it's why we have to take action and we can't keep thinking that as everyone uses diesel, and as SMEs use it, and as curls and so on, it can go on indefinitely. The new diesel engines, Mrs López de Ocariz said earlier, the Euro 5 and Euro 6 are going to be a new fraud. Not by the engine itself, but by how they are being used. I just read two news stories. December 2017: "The Ertzaintza fines 56 trucks for falsifying emissions from the exhaust pipe. Trucks carry a small electronic device that is used to trick the computer on board trucks and vans. The chip disables the consumption of a product, Adblue, which allows new diesel engines to reduce their NOx emissions by 90%". March 2018: "The Ertzaintza detects a new method of handling in the system that reduces polluting gases in trucks". The problem is not the fuel, the problem is the engines. Diesel engines have reached a point of maturity where they are unable to comply with the strict environmental regulations of the European Union and the United States, and in that everything is reduced, in that everything is reduced. Mrs Red has said that this diesel tax has a basically ecological purpose and I would add one thing the minister also said: an energy transition purpose. It's one thing with the other. Mr Otero has said that fossil fuels are not going to last indefinitely, they are finite. And I hope that this debate will serve what has already been put on the table. We are all interested in having a modern and sustainable automotive sector and, today, manufacturing internal combustion vehicles, we have limited sustainability and, above all, we have future perceptions which, I will not say threatening to maintain that rigour, but of course they do cast future shadows. And now that the industry is at its peak, because we're not just talking about Mercedes being at its peak, it's that Volkswagen de Landaben is also at its peak, it's that General Motors in Figueruelas is 133% of its capacity and yet it's considering firing 900 people; now, it's when we have to start that transition, that path. The tax debate is exhausted, because I have already said this, Mrs Red, we have to comply with our obligations in Europe and we have to do so without harming the lower-income people and, above all, trying to get our industry out of the way at least with a plan that will enable it to deal with the future risks that, of course, are already beginning to be perceived on the horizon. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u41	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Socialists. Mrs. Rojo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, today four parliamentary groups have many differences when we talk about energy and that we often find it difficult to reach agreements we have been able to reach a compromise amendment that says a lot, Mrs López de Ocariz. It says a lot, of course it says very little barbarity about what you wanted this Parliament to support. And indeed, today we have witnessed the spectacle of the despair of a party that does not understand that there was a motion of censure that ended with a government that was doing things wrong. And as far as energy is concerned, apart from Europe's mandate and compliance, apart from the fact that we have a clear bet to put an end to fossil fuels, apart from the fact that we are clear what we want for the future of ecology, apart from all this, we can say that there is also an ideological component here. And it's normal that you don't agree with us on this, so we're not surprised. You accuse us of sinking Spain and say a few things... But it is that you are able to tell us about renewable energies, considering that you made the sun tax, put the premiums to the renewables, with all that that meant for people that had undertaken and that was ruined. At the time, they were not concerned about workers, they were not concerned about renewables, they were not concerned about anything. I will tell you that the diesel tax announced by Minister Rivera is a progressive tax which, of course, apart from being a progressive tax, comes behind a compliance that must be made of Europe; it is a courageous tax, but a tax claimed; it is a measured tax, because this is not something that happens to someone and there are no reports, as you say, as if someone rose one morning and said we are going to put the tax on the diesel. That, Mrs López de Ocariz, is not true, and I believe that we must do a rigorous job here. One thing is that you do not share it, in your right it is and is legitimate, but what you cannot come here is to "some do everything and others do everything wrong". Indeed, this tax comes from a specific ministry, the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Climate Change. That is the only reason why the defence of ecology, environmental concern and all that this implies is implicit. But, in this case, I am glad to have reached the agreement reached. Of course, I have to thank both Bildu and Podemos for the generosity that they have maintained throughout the negotiation in order to be able to reach this agreement, and on this occasion I am glad, Mrs López de Ocariz, that I have not reached an agreement with you, because the Socialist Party has nothing to do with the People's Party in the future that arises in energy. And so, finally, they assume that they left the Spanish Government as they did and, of course, in the end, you are not the bravers of everything that has to do with workers' rights, because we can another day devote a debate to each of the measures that have affected workers in this country. By the way, while some were getting rich and others were getting fired.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u43	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u44	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mrs López de Ocariz, the Basques don't feel small, even if we measure a meter and a half, like me. Neither I, nor you, nor certainly the rest of the compañeras and compañeras that we are here, because I think it is something that in that characterization of people because it is a characteristic that we have, I think fortunately, if we also know how to manage it with a little humility too. You say that what we want is a weak state government. We do not want a weak government of the State at all. No, not at all, because it affects us too. Another thing is that we take advantage of all the opportunities that can be presented to us in Madrid and those window of opportunity that can be opened to us so that we can defend and fight for what you have heard a thousand times from our statements, which is to defend the Basque agenda, which we consider to be a priority for Euskadi. But we don't just do it now. It's just that we did it with you, with Rajoy. And at that time we suffered such attacks and such debates by other parliamentary groups. We have these kinds of attacks depending on who we are supporting, and we are actually supporting the possibilities that we may have to move forward and get things that we think, according to our project and our opinion, are good for Euskadi. You used to say we didn't do anything. One of the 15 country targets of the Basque Government is the 20% reduction of greenhouse gases, that is the 2020 target, and by June 2018 the reduction of greenhouse gases was 26%, according to Eurostat. So, something we should be doing. Before you meant – and I couldn't answer it – that what energy mix we had, that we weren't doing anything. And I believe that Tapia was also clear in the Committee on Economic Development when he presented the Comprehensive Mobility Plan. And he said, "It's not enough that it's electric to make it sustainable. Indeed, she said, it depends on the energy mix. Our energy mix today is not as sustainable as possible, so we have to move towards a more renewable energy mix, a more renewable energy mix. We have to comply." And she said, "If we meet the commitments we have made in Paris and the climate change strategy, this will be done." But, of course, I believe that it is acting with absolute transparency, saying where we can have some points, weaknesses, and points of improvement where we have to work. And for that we have to take action. I have not said that these measures cannot be financed by this tax. I said that the tax is not in itself finalist, as could be a "health cent" tax, but that everything that is collected would go to a fund, to revenues that would serve to finance different public policies and public services, and also these, and with a considerable amount, it seems, the will of the government and the agreement to which they have come. Otero, "the sector has to change its direction." Batzordean, lehen aipatu dudan batzorde horretan era, gauza bera komentatu zenion salilburuari. Ez dakit gogoratzen duzun. Irailaren 24an izan zen batzorde horretan esaten zenuen: "Automotive has to be converted and make the transition". Eta Tapiak berak, Sailburuak, wasntzuten zizun: "The automotive cluster itself is doing it. He's doing an important job. It is the private sector that is doing so, making very important decisions, and is already doing so, changing its production processes, adapting to the new services linked to sustainable mobility, to the autonomous vehicle." Nik you went hor Berak was wearing a zizula. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You have already mentioned, if we consider our structure, the structure of the industry in the most important companies, and that there are companies connected with mobiles, so that it may be inferred that it is a matter of commercial scales. But above all, and I think it's one of the biggest caress for this fun, because that's the job. When jobs are at stake in this society, our legal team, the Jelt Party, is getting very nervous. We don't like to put things into banners when they're wrong, so that we don't want to get in advance for that kind of thing. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u46	Thanks again. I think, Mrs. Łódź de Ocariz, there is no great discussion with you today. I mean, obviously, you're trying to imagine a position today: you, Popular Party, friends of the "surree," against everybody and doing things right, and all the others will bring a catastrophe. You wanted that picture, if you have that picture. It's irresponsible for me. I don't know how to say it, at a time when it's time to calm down, you're doing the opposite. And if it is true, though there have been some contradictions between ministers in the text of Madrid, the direction cannot be said to be improper. Nik kontu beast seems to be beating nahi nuen. Kontuan hartu behar dugu dieselaren European Izan industry Batasunaren ume kuttuna, guinea pig. Eta konfiantza horretaz abusu bat egin duela. Nik you're going to have azken hour. You're going to have a cold-blooded bone argi gelditzen in her zebra. Horren aurrean, not only have regulations been tightened, but there are also some cities which, in view of the fact that the introduction and massification of diesel in metropolitan areas have given rise to very specific and very specific pollution problems, which has also been a very large pollution, as the European Union reports, derived from nitrogen oxide, derived from small particles and so on, are telling us, of course, after this abuse, what has happened is that there are other citizen sectors that have mobilized and are putting barriers. That is really the problem that the diesel has and it is the place that will have to regain confidence in the sector itself. Therefore, I think that when we look about the environmental cells, we must be clear, it is logical, according to the principle that "he who does," the diesel must pay at least as much as the gasoline, and that is unconceivable this day. What's going on here is that industry now knows that he can get into a problem with the middle term and industry will ask for it. He'll adapt to the industry and he'll be doing it. There's a whole list there, we've been reviewing it before: They abandon Porsche, they abandon Suzuki, they abandon the Elgeel, they abandon the Honda, they abandon the Eldeel, they abandon Nissa, Seat est est a seed's planes parane elsels.... And so you and your first corrections, in that sense Josu Jon Ila said, la de démosle una portentunidad, have they not? And you say it to make a transition. I think the area would be a lot bigger when we're talking about transition, or when the sector is talking about transition, when it's talking about hybrids, plugs, or what isn't, vehicles, not others, and the last electric scene. But to consider them now as an interesting tract of transition is a step back, that's backward. Of course, we'd have a soda with gasoline. Of course we can't do it with diesel. So that's why we also say "reové," "renové." Industriality has a lot of energy, industry has a lot of jobs, and industry will make a lot of pressure, and it's not for us to get into the stage where they sit, but we'll have to work on the stage from now on, and that's why we'll have to put all our machines working, research, different programmes, plans... That's why we're saying that it's so important to an strategic planning that it'll have to become conservative. And we must push them in the other direction. There's no other way. And if we really want to keep employment for a short period or a lasting period, that's the only way we can keep up what we don't have today. If the change comes, not only because change is inevitable, then instead of defending an industrial or entire area that can remain behind, we must help evolutionize and demand it. We think that's the way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Now that we have finished the discussion, we shall vote for the original text of Madame Carmen Lopez de Ocariz, López de Muuna. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 8; rivals, 65; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u48	So, not allowed original text. We'll next vote for the middle-term correction of the Basque Socialists, the Podemos, the EH, and the Euncierians. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters, 65; the opponents 8; the whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u49	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group together, the President of Euskadin. "And the motion, introduced by the parliamentary members of the World of Maddalen Irina EH Collector, concerning the attacks endured by the company of Jamaicans." The next round of the proposed team, Mrs. Arana, representing the Podemos group, has the word to present and defend itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u50	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning to all. Welcome to Jazabel, and welcome to you, Izasun, and to you. The uniform used by the company Jaizkibel is composed of a white trousers and shirt, with a black jacket and a handkerchief of colors like this one that I wear here today, which symbolizes diversity and joy and respect. It is an honor for me to wear myself today, as every September 8th Jaizkibel company wears this scarf, symbol of the struggle for equality and diversity in Hondarribia. The commitment of Elkarrekin Podemos in the fight for equality led us to present in this plenary an initiative to support the development of the Irun mixed Alarde and that of the company Jaizkibel at the holidays of Hondarribia, in the face of the contempt and explicit discrimination that they receive, because we consider it also a violation of human rights. Please note that in 1999 the head of the Basque Institute for Women, Txaro Arteaga Anso, said in this Parliament that the right of women who want to participate in the campaign on equal terms with men must be guaranteed, because they believe that otherwise the fundamental right of non-discrimination on the basis of sex is violated. Almost 20 years later we heard the director of Emakunde, Izaskun Landaida, this past September 8, at the screams and insults that Jaizkibel received, as well as many of the people we went to Hondarribia. Well, not all of them; some were greeted with applause, Mrs. Uriarte was greeted with applause when she went to see the discriminatory boast parade. A pity that I am not here today and one day I would like you to explain to me how you can support and promote a co-educational and egalitarian school and at the same time support a discriminatory boast. The truth is, I find it very difficult to understand that these two things can be defended at the same time. Ms. Landaida said that the shouts against Jaizkibel did not coincide with the majority feeling of society on equality and recalled that there are many localities that, with the support of the citizenry, are taking important steps by adapting their traditions to ensure the equal participation of women and men in various festivals and celebrations. On 8 September, the whole of Euskadi went through images of Hondarribia in which a large group of women, men, adults, young people and adolescents were strongly harassed and harassed for participating in the holidays of their people. An image that is very negative for the progress towards equality of women and men throughout Euskadi, because it is the breeding ground for messages, speeches, declarations and debates in which the fundamental right of women to participate fully in political, social, economic and cultural life is questioned. One more year, and there are already more than 20, women and men who want to parade in a mixed company, women and men who want to participate in an egalitarian boast, both in Irun and in Hondarribia, meet with municipalities that little or nothing facilitates their right. On the shores of Irun and Hondarribia; in Bilbao, the comrade Mamiki, or in Vitoria, the neskas The progress is indisputable but there is a long way to go and the images of day 8 are a stone in the way, an obstacle to consolidating the values of equality, coexistence and respect for human rights in the Basque Country. In a single day, on a single street in the Basque town, very graphically, strikingly and widely disseminated in media and networks, the crudest face of the system is manifested that hinders, sometimes invisibly and sometimes explicitly and violently, the exercise of their rights to women. Euskadi must have and needs clear, firm and equal messages of graphs in favor of equality. It is more than urgent that the use of black plastics and other symbols of rejection of women's equal participation in parties should disappear from our imagination, and public institutions must be resolutely and once and for all involved to normalize women's participation in the Irun and Hondarribia fairs on an equal footing. Last March 8th reminded us of the hand of the feminist movement that it is necessary to transform all – and I say all – the spheres of life, in order to achieve real and effective equality between women and men, also in our streets and also in our holidays. And it is urgent that we devote all our efforts to the struggle to guarantee all the rights of all women, including the right to participate in a party, because only through equal participation do we enrich our societies and transform them into more just ones. We've been listening to noise on that street, Major Street, for 23 years, just 300 meters. They've been pushing for 23 years, squeaking, booing and insulting. And don't talk to me here today about tradition, about maintaining historical rigour, because, as in almost all traditions, it has also undergone many changes. For example, including the canteens, uniforms, as well as the people who integrate it. Remind them that the men who parade may have been born in Hondarribia, be summerers or migrants, or simply friends of someone who has a friend who parades. However, women in Hondarribia are forbidden to parade just because they are women, nothing more. Take a look at this: any of the men who are here in this Parliament right now, next year, on 8 September, could parade in the discriminatory boasting of Hondarribia, any of you. On the other hand, we women who are here today, we could not freely parade in the traditional or discriminatory parade. From Elkarrekin We believe that there are many years of noise, insults, black plastics and also many years of autopilot. That is why we decided to bring this initiative to this plenary. A simple and symbolic initiative, because we believe that many years have passed without recognition of the injustice suffered by people who parade in egalitarian boast. In that regard, we believe that the unique representation of the director of the Basque Institute for Women is insufficient, important but insufficient, because the urgent and essential message for Basque women and all citizens must be that the entire Basque Government, represented by its highest authorities, women and men, should be committed and unreservedly defend the rights of all women, equality and coexistence with all human rights in a central place in all parts of Euskadi. It is a pity that the lehendakari of this room has just left, but I will follow my intervention. That is why one of our points was nothing other than the "Vasco Parliament urges the Basque Government to show its unbridled support for the equality of women and men in all areas, in all the municipalities of Euskadi, through, among other actions, the participation of our highest authority, the lehendakari, in the next wards of Hondarribia and Irun, being present together with the rest of the authorities in the passage of the companies in which women and men participate in equal opportunities". That is why I said before that Euskadi must have and needs clear, firm and equal messages of graphs in favor of equality. And what better than the lehendakari, which is a pity that he is not sitting in his seat right now listening to this very interesting initiative, the lehendakari of all and all, turning to the egalitarian boast, making clear his commitment to the equality and the rights of women to participate in the holidays. And they tell us that if we want to negotiate this point, it should only be that the "Vasco Parliament urges the Basque Government to show its unbroken point in the equality of women and men in all areas and in all the municipalities of Euskadi". Autopilot, which is what you've been doing all these years. Autopilot, we sent the director of Emakunde, and autopilot. I would like to know, on behalf of both Mrs Red and Mrs Berasaluze, what is the reason why they consider that Mr Lehendakari does not have to go to receive the cheer on the holidays, why do they not want to? Is it for protection, is it because you don't want to pass that bad drink that we spend people committed to the egalitarian cheers and the women and men who parade, or because you really don't care what happens there? I would like to thank Mrs Etxebarrieta for her full willingness to agree and to achieve until the last moment that this initiative would have covered a little more. And nothing more to say at the moment, that eskerrik asko, and that I would like to know, I repeat, from both the PNV and the PSE, what is the reason why they consider that Mr Lehendakari does not have to come to receive on September 8 to the company Jaizkibel and on June 30 to the egalitarian boast in Irún. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u52	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. In Maddalera it was said that when President Urkullu had joined him, there was nothing but a space between the president and his seats in the main street of sand. I'd like to reach that idea or that space. I remember how nervous I got down to this space the first time I came to speak. It was the first time that I'd show myself publicly in the literary institution, and I was in a shower. I came here with Jules on our way to commiseration at the time. I don't know if it was the other day or early, and I made a few rehearsals with him. He told me to drink water, obviously I don't listen to him, drink water gives a great deal of relief, and I didn't throw him out to talk, talk calmly, to train him-and here we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we weren't, we weren't, we weren't, we weren't, we weren't, we weren't, we were, we weren't, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we And while we were doing our rehearsals, he was in front of me, though he isn't now, and he'll forgive me for mentioning, Borja Sémper, while he was taking pictures of him. He was there, quite calmly, and I was doing a rehearsal here with all the excitement. Contrast: the young girl was a novice, nervous, and the man who had passed the walk I shall not say 'old,' but wholly adapted to space. And she, I don't really remember what it was, but she said I'd do it right. And when the day of the first talk came, I don't remember what I said, I don't remember how I did it, but I remember only at those few moments when I dared lift my head off the paper, when I met faces looking at me: some laughing and nodding, others listening, others indifferent, or some of their own. When I finished, my colleagues told me I did well. And I don't know, but at least they encouraged me. So they tried to convey the advice, the words, the looks, the advice, the disagreement, and the gestures that tried to show me that I was in my place. You told me, too, that this difference is my place, that there is also a place for women, that there is also a place for young women, and you have told me that this is my place. If there's ever too much noise, the Chief Tejeria asks you to shut up or he wants us to tell him the atmosphere worth arguing. What I propose now is to move this idea of space and space from political faith to public space. Imagine a young girl taking a step to celebrate her party on the main street for the first time. And though he has an opinion against himself, yet he will do well who meet a man who tells him that he will do well. As soon as he stops looking at the step and whistle, he looks at the sidewalks and sees some people laughing and clapping his hands, others looking at him with indifference, others passing by. But imagine that when one of them starts making noise, one of the tables doesn't, but one of the people asks him to shut up. A friend crying out for him when he's finished the main street, who yells, "You did good." And the other members, who have a contrary opinion, who, to be easy and easy, receive him with the messages they tell him he's going to be all right and end up with the cans in the fishing neighbourhood. Then let's come back and bring the sandribic back here. Do you imagine that in this legislature there are some who are here the first time a woman spoke, some of you who are here, some of you who are in the first row, who will take up a few large plastics and lift them up, because this has always been the space of men? Why should a woman come here to speak? Can you imagine when he was the President of the First Congress, when Izau Bilbao took charge, the people would rise and scream at him every time he spoke? We can't imagine. Remember Kathleen Switzer's picture? She was the first woman to hide her hair as best she could and run off with her former partner on the Boston marathon. One of the barons saw him and went out to catch him and tried to get him out of the way. We have an image of the men around us that protects us, and he made a marathon. But recently they had an interview with the new one. And by chance, in the lower part of the envelope, there was an interview made by the young Jawabel: Even in school, you can't talk without being despised. These young men who are a watering path and women whistle like Kathrine. Fuerte, very strong. They don't want to hear themselves. There are some men who protect them, but others wait for him at the Guernica Arbol, without them, and these young girls and young men wait to be challenged without him, and many turn their backs. The authorities of the council do not receive them, as is not the case with the harness which the male only accepts. They can't even talk about it at school without being despised. You will forgive me, but I want to repeat: Even at school they can't talk without being despised. That's why we want to charge these people with attacks made to this peer of society once more. This is why we believe that it is necessary to confer on the same rank, and to receive such as have no means of proceeding with the same protection, and those who have no institutional protection. We were discussing a conspiracy in our motion, a charge of accusation and protection, to establish a foundation in the path of inevitable discussion and solution, but we were willing to remark a different aspect: and I know most of them agree. In the first field we have different points of view, perhaps not opposed, but different from our machies, and we could not find a middle-point. But the second time we met, I'd like to put that in value. We all see that this can't go on like this, we all know that we don't want to see the pictures of distribution and delocation on the 30th of June, or September 8th, but we all have to work on it. We think it must be a business of several parties; in the rank of the people, the townships, the Aldecians, and the President. There are some who put the focus on the council or the town, but what happens when one side doesn't want to sit down? What happens when a party doesn't want to talk and listen? We have to hand it over to that. We're going to lay down the foundations of discussion, and we wanted to do that today. I'm afraid this form hasn't come out, and it'll be a lost opportunity, but we won't give up. I know the majority here will not give up and we will continue to work for a couple of partners and public parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u54	Advisers, parliamentarians and parliamentarians. We are one more year talking about this issue, which is a painful issue, but we have been able to see once again that we have not been able to reach a single document among the groups. I want to comment a little bit on what the people who preceded me have said. Mrs Arana, I will tell you, that, look, to imagine that 85% of the population of two municipalities is macho or discriminatory is something difficult to believe, because we are talking about 85% of cities that are modern, that are open, that are solidarity. Something different happens. But, in addition, that accusation of discrimination, which you maintain, although it does not come in the text, is absolutely unfair. Let's see, when there's a difference of opinion about whether or not the law is enforced, it's the courts who rule. And the courts have ruled that neither the traditional pride of Irun nor the traditional pride of Hondarribia are discriminatory. Then it seems to me an absolute injustice to continue insulting the majority of the population of Irun and the majority of the population of Hondarribia. You insult him, you insult him and you insult him. And it's unfair. The courts have ruled. In what sense have the courts ruled? Well, considering it's non-discriminatory, because it's a representation. A representation like, there are many throughout the whole European geography, but to get closer, the Nativity is represented; the Passion is represented; the arrival, for example, from Elcano to Seville is represented; battles have been represented... The courts have ruled that representations as such are not discriminatory. I will tell Mrs Etxebarrieta that I understand that appeal to feelings and emotions, but it seems to me a little, even a little lota So, please, let's get this out of the personal domain a little bit. If we have to mention emotions, let's talk about collective emotions, but not our own. If you want, I'll tell you what I did to calm my nerves the first time I came out here. I don't think it's convenient to say it on the microphone. Well, Mrs. Etxebarrieta's telling you that. So we are faced with non-discriminatory holidays, because the judges have said so, and when the judges say so and resort to the different stays and that resolution is confirmed, that is to say, discriminatory, we stop insulting 85% of the population of Irun and 85% of the population of Hondarribia, and respect the dignity of 15% of the population of Irun and 15% of the population of Hondarribia to celebrate the holidays in another way. You have spoken here of diversity. And again I tell you what I have already said in two committees, you have invented the perfect oxymoron, as well as that of stunned silence: diversity in unanimity. What more diversity there that people can celebrate their parties as they like? That's really diverse, that's really enriching. Because, look, it says here that you have to listen and you have to talk. I, who am also Councillor of Irun, have spoken to both sides. And you know the problem we have? That neither of the two ways of celebrating the boast has any normative or legal glue. Some say to me, "Yes, yes, if people want to celebrate the boast in another way they will. We agree on timetables, we agree on whatever it is and that they celebrate it." But others say to me, "No, your obligation is to forbid the celebration of boasting in that other way." And that's the story, some are willing to celebrate the cheers in different ways, and others are asking you to ban a kind of cheer celebration. And I'm very sorry, but as a political leader and who also had government responsibilities, I can't ban people arbitrarily from organizing and celebrating as they please. I'm telling you, a performance that's coming to my mind is one that is seen by a lot of gentlemen as raving out of a ship in Seville because they're representing Elcano's arrival in Seville after going around the world. They're performances. There is another issue that you too very often draw, that the mayor and councillors of some groups do not receive the same both alards. Look, I'm Irun's councillor and I've committed myself to the plenary of Irun, in the media, and I'm doing it again here, that if mixed cheers or the company are related to the City Hall, I, who am councillor for all, will receive you both. But let us remember here that both Jaizkibel and Irun's mixed boast go to the Interior Department and ask permission to hold a demonstration. While any association of neighbors, any charanga, any playful association and of course the traditional boast go to its town hall, they ask it to occupy public street, they hand over all the insurance documents, they hand over all the documentation that is required, which is exhaustive for anyone, both the mixed boast of Irun and the company Jaizkibel, they skip all those procedures, turn their backs on their town halls, because they turn their backs, go to the Interior Council and ask permission for a demonstration. I defend the right of both the mixed pride of Irún and the Jaizkibel company to parade, and I will always defend it and I have always done it, and if they relate to the City Hall, if they do not turn their backs to their municipalities, in Irún I will be on the balcony. That's all there was to it! Because I believe in your right to celebrate the party as you like, but in the right I don't believe in is that someone imposes on me a ban on a way to celebrate the parties without any legal or regulatory cause. I'm sorry, I didn't pass that way. While the other group tells me, "Oh, they want to celebrate the party, perfect, to celebrate it as they wish." And look, that's the situation, that's why we keep our amendment, an amendment that calls for compliance with the law, an amendment that calls for the right and respect for freedom of how to celebrate a party, everyone celebrates it as they please, and a final point on which I will speak in the next speech, which is the right for no one to be insulted, for no one to be hurt in their dignity, for no one to be vilified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u56	Thank you, President, and good morning again to all of you. Indeed, the subject of boasting is a subject that has been discussed in this Parliament on many occasions, but in honour of the truth it must be said that on this occasion I believe that the likelihood of agreement has been on the table and, Mrs Arana, we did not only put a single point as a condition for reaching an agreement, there was only one point on which we did not agree, which is not the same. And you ask, "I'd like you to answer the question of the lehendakari." It is that the Socialist Party of Euskadi does not believe that the problem that exists in Irún and in Hondarribia around the brawl does not start or end with Mr Lehendakari, with his presence or not. We believe it is a position that Podemos proposed from the beginning as a sine qua non condition. And by sharing many of the things, and others not, that have been said in this rostrum and especially because, Mrs Etxebarrieta, I never – and I think those who have shared with me many years in this Parliament – can say, I have never used what this parliamentarian has lived in the most personal way in her life. I know what it's like to be insulted, I know what it's like to go through the villages and be spitted out, I know what it's like to be insulted, for other things, and I know what it's like to feel very lonely, and that's why I'll never support what Jaizkibel's company has to do with Alarde. I will never support an insult, I will never support any kind of violence, and that is why the first rejection of what has happened around the company Jaizkibel, because as that company well knows, the Socialist Party of Euskadi, in voice of the spokesman of the General Councils of Gipuzkoa, who is Petri Romero on this issue, met with them and raised the most absolute support and rejection of violence. I wish others had felt that support at other times. And now the debate that we have again today about equality, as a first concern, as a demand demanded and, of course, as a pending subject, because I refer to the facts. Irún and Hondarribia's alards are always part of an analysis that should already be a past theme and in that goal we should involve all the institutions and not just the municipalities concerned. The two cumulative initiatives, although in a different way, deal with the same subject and are born from the same moment. And preparing this topic the other day I read the following headline: "The boasters of Irun and Hondarribia as well as any tradition that entangles, discriminates or violates human rights, must turn towards positions accepted by the entire community involved." And of course, I can't agree more. Traditions are not something immutable, it is not something that should be kept unattended in the new times. They must adapt to today's society, to today's demands and, of course, to the legislation we have adopted. For the law is not whether we interpret it or not; the law is either fulfilled or unfulfilled. And the Equality Act is clear, clear and demanding, and we should all ensure that it is fully implemented. The end of these festive events will culminate in the role of women and men on an equal footing, and there will be no more conflict, respect will prevail and, above all, the coexistence that is a term that is sometimes forgotten when we talk about this matter. This is what I think will happen and that is why I think we should all work. This matter has been discussed, as I said, a few weeks ago at the Gipuzkoa General Councils, following an appearance by representatives of the Jaizkibel company, and I would like to repeat the words that Mrs Romero said at the time and on which we have no doubt. "The Basque Socialist Party strongly condemns and rejects any aggression, because reason does not matter, because nothing justifies violence, neither on this issue nor on any issue." What happened this year – like others – in the celebration of the Alards is a step backwards in the struggle for equality; it cannot be understood because the fact that women want to participate in the celebration of the festivals of their municipality, in the way they consider or wish, can be a reason for breaking up coexistence, aggressions, insults or rejections. Cohabitation is an essential goal for any Democrat, and there is no doubt that cohabitation includes accepting that there are those who think differently, recognizing their right to express their ideas, opinions, in equality and, above all, in freedom. Because one's freedom ends where the other's freedom begins, and this should be a principle that we should not forget. And let us also not forget that the streets of a municipality are a public space that by definition are of all and all, without rights acquired from one above another. And in the matter before us today, the institutions must work to ensure the recognition and full participation of women in the Irun and Hondarribia wreaths, without fissures, without nuances and without wreaths. For the Basque Socialists behind this debate is the ethical commitment and, in case anyone has any doubts, the PSE supports the parade of the company Jaizkibel. We defend real equality in society, that equality that goes beyond even what a legal text recognizes. The equality that wins words to be tangible in the streets of our towns and cities. We respect plurality, the different ways of feeling and living. Citizens are fundamental to determining the future of these festivals, and as EH Bildu's representative, Mrs. Iriarte, said in the plenary session, it is true that they are a minority who are the protagonists of the shameful events within a society that wants to celebrate its festivals in an equal, respectful and conflict-free manner, but with them it would be worthwhile to put an end to discrimination. Because respect for tradition should not be incompatible with the evolution of society. What happens in Irún and the Hondarribia every year when the celebration of their respective alards comes, exceeds the local one, which is why the role of the Basque Government and the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation is important, which we know has already begun to work on this matter. And to conclude with this topic. This requires serenity in order to be able to face a debate in which each of the parties can raise their views. It requires a search for consensus, because it is urgent and essential to work with a agreed position, without confrontations or divisions. It requires responsibility because we are the public officials who must ensure compliance with the law without renouncing our values of equality. Effective and real equality should be an objective for which to work together regardless of the acronyms we represent. It is not an end that one group pursues against another, to greater equality democracy. The Basque society of the 21st century should be characterized by the values that reflect coexistence and the right to be free. We are in a time when this should no longer be in debate. All under the umbrella that the laws grant and of which we have all endowed ourselves. I hope 2018 has been the last year in which a Basque municipality is the protagonist of images, gestures and pronouncements far from equality, respect, freedom and coexistence. And of course, the Socialist Party of Euskadi will work for it from where it belongs. Therefore, as far as this initiative is concerned, compliance with the law, defence of freedom and coexistence and, of course, continue to defend and work for equality to go beyond texts and discourses to become a tangible reality. It is true that we are in a debate in which the tone has dropped, and I believe that that is to thank all the spokespersons that we have used the word in this rostrum, and to see if it is true that among all of us we begin to work for this to end. And to conclude, the lehendakari had made an offer, which was to make a reception, which is something that was approved at a specific point of an initiative that was discussed at Gipuzkoa General Councils, but for the Basque Socialist Party it is much more important to work because equality is real than whether the lehendakari goes or not. We understand that the figure of Emakunde represents the Basque Government in terms of equality, although it is true that if we go down to the debate, Mrs Arana, probably, Mrs Arana, we would all put nuances to each of the paragraphs. When you want to consent, you want to consent. It was an amendment that had many points and there was only one in which there was a problem. I believe that after listening to this honourable Member's speech, there is no doubt as to the defence that my party makes of the equality and ethical commitment it acquires for its fulfilment. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u57	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. First of all, I want to confirm in our group what the President has said in the assembly of general policy and in the assembly of control, in answer to the interpelation of Mrs. Irries; We mourn and accuse and accuse all the troubles, attacks, and insults that have occurred in the plain of sand. We strongly condemn the attitudes that were seen on the 8th in Hondarribia, because we believe that the insults, threats and aggressions that took place there have no place in a democratic society like ours. And we've come to talk about alders again, and it's not the first time. If we go to the archives of this legislature, there was already a discussion of this kind in '99, even an institutional expression was accepted. And, to be honest, there have been a lot of events since that time about courtizing this affair, privatizations, and I think few steps ahead. Twenty years later, what's got to be done? I believe that here again it is the same thing, and that positions are the same as those which have always been, at least in the case of those who are just. It is the same thing that each one of us has brought up today as an initiative or as a correction, and the things we demand, as they were then demanded. And unfortunately it hasn't been much further than those pictures on the 8th of September to prevent the great day in the sandland. And I think that in that sense we should all be doing some kind of self-critic. He also mentioned the Presidents, and the Destruction, which he till now does in this matter, and which he does every year, and every year: To guarantee security by the edge, and to prevent riots from being larger, and also to attempt to find solutions. The President himself is represented every year by the headmaster of the Election at the reception which is given to Jamaican company, and also at the reception of the mixed altar of Irun. But we really don't think that's how we're going to solve it. Ms. Arana, with your answer to your question, and the respect and respect I owe to the President, I do not think that at this time, as things are, the presence of the President will bring us any news. I mean it with all my heart. I don't think he'll report anything. We, at least in this matter, believe that we have to focus things differently, and I believe that the solution is really in Irun and sand. but I believe that the inhabitants of the country ought to have decided also how to make a part of their co-operation. Uncivility, yes, but at this moment I think it's more serious that there is really a great question of life in these countries, and especially the images I saw in the sandland lead me to this conclusion: a terrible want of respect for one another, and that really keeps us away from the solution. It was definitely a big step back, September 8th. We understand that the real solution to the conflict should be worked out by enabling, from the institutions and from the responsibilities that we all have, channels for understanding, but that we really decide how to live that party, how to live those different ways of feeling the party, because we cannot ignore that there are two different ways of understanding it, and that one we like more or the other we like less, we cannot avoid it. I think we have to listen to everyone and try to talk, because they told me that the representatives of the company Jaizkibel, who are here, that maybe they will tell me that it is not true, and those of Betiko Alardea of Hondarribia, because also for 6 or 7 years they have not spoken. I don't know, that's what I've been told, and I don't think that can be. The institutional work, no doubt. And in the gym, there's an organizational table running. I hear they've had a meeting this Monday. When the table was over, the Mayors of sand and Irungo didn't go away and now they go away. And I think that may also be useful. We understand that this inter-institutional bureau set up in the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council can be a valid instrument. I don't think it's too much talking, sitting, sharing and seeing how we can lead this issue; designing an action plan, in which that study what the reasons for this conflict are, how and why it has been transmitted, because we've been talking about the same thing for 20 years, and the reasons why two decades later it's absolutely inquisitive, which I think is really the problem. Of course, I do not believe that simplistic proposals, of simplistic solutions, because, with all due respect, Mrs Arana, but I believe that insisting so much on the presence of the lehendakari, because I believe that it does not go to the bottom of the problem. I personally understand that it does little to resolve this issue. "Creo que tambiens es impportante otra clave, I think I don't like this subject any more." Unfortunately, our country has had too much funnified subjects, and I think this has been a bit too niceized. That's why I was saying that there was something that was tested in the Las razones del Origen del conflicto sanadas. We'll all have to look at that beginning too, where and why we've been. That's her political konfliktoa bihurtu. Besterik ez dago, hemen elkarren artean no ari garen eta, nik, benetan esaten dizuet, gaurko eztabaidara ez nuen étrori nahi elkarri hemen ezer aurpegiratzera, bathe you due to ez diola inungo mesederik egiten denok, benetan hau konpondu nahi baldin badugu, horrelako eztabaidetan ibiltzea. We therefore consider it important that the political parties contribute to reducing the tension in this conflict, which I understand is absolutely politicized. And it is the responsibility of all of us to cooperate in opening up ways of dialogue with this objective. I do not think, as in all things, that everything is white or black, that the one or the other have a perfect reason. We're not gonna get things through imperializing. At this moment, I think we have to take the problem into another area and the solution must come from somewhere else. What we've done so far, I'm not going to say was wrong, but whatever we're in right now is wrong and I think we have to do that self-critic. And you're always betting on discrete work, aren't you? I think that's the real solution of this in discreet work, and not always so much to discuss it in the public square. Today, actually, I think we've been close to this deal. The President himself has been prepared to meet all those who ask him, to speak to them all, and I believe that if the principal ruler of this country is really to be part of this remedy, he must speak to all. I think it's all right to say, well, the local councils don't care about the Jamaican company and the Irungo mixed altar, and another organization has to take over another representative. But I believe that if we are to solve this problem, and give it a solution, we ought to ask the President for something, either to speak to all, or to be included in the real solution of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. We're going over to the answering shift. Together, Poedemus. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u60	Thank you. I do drink water because I calm down, it keeps calming me down. Let's see, where I start. On the one hand, we meet a mayor in Irún, mayor of the PSOE of Mrs. Mendia, who opens the town hall so that we enter the people we want to receive on equal terms and goes through the back door so that we do not have to cross with the equal rights. And what has the PSOE done all these years? Quiet, send other representatives of your party and autopilot. I would like to know what the current Minister of Equality, Carmen Calvo, has to say about this. I don't know if they've told her and what she thinks about this that the mayor of Irun is doing in Irun. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, are you going to do something else? From what I see – Mr. Andueza, don't get nervous, it's okay – from what I see, from what you have agreed with the PNV, you will remain the same, you will continue with the autopilot that so much likes your government partners. On the other hand, we find the situation of contempt and explicit discrimination received by the company Jaizkibel by the private association that organizes the traditional boast and the Municipality of Hondarribia, which through posters, like those launched last year, favored the social confrontation and the machismo that we so much need to eradicate. Mayor, by the way, Mrs Berasaluze, who ignores the obligations undertaken in the field of defence and promotion of equality arising from our current legal framework. Equality is a fundamental right with international recognition that begins in our streets and peoples. Standardizing the participation of women in all areas requires a collective effort, and a clear and definitive social and institutional commitment to real equality between women and men. And Mr Urkullu's mayor – which I regret again that he is not here listening to this question so much – the mayor of the PNV not only does not receive the company Jaizkibel, but also – and this seems very serious to us – runs a town council that lacks a technical person of equality and an equality plan. And this is the PNV's commitment to equality? With municipalities like Hondarribia, who don't have an equality plan? That they don't have a stalking plan on sexual violence or machistas? Mr Urkullu has as his goal – which remains superb in the role – to place Euskadi among the first European countries in the gender equality index and in the fight against labour discrimination. Very nice. But let me tell you that in the face of the inefficiency of your Government to put an end to an inequality problem, in the face of a machismo problem, we are going to stay away from that objective which Mr Urkullu has. The structural problem, Mrs Red, goes through institutions that reject the participation of women in their parties. That is the structural problem that exists. Two mayors, one from the PSOE and one from the PNV, who are not doing their job: representing everyone. And let the lehendakari go, the highest authority, would be to make a symbolic gesture towards the citizens and their mayors that equality is above all. Mrs. Juana de Bengoechea, there is a PP councilman in Hondarribia who goes to church and the passage of the company Jaizkibel takes out a sign that puts "Betiko alardea". Look, I want to remind you, because it seems to me that it is of the utmost importance that the Basque High Court of Justice ruled in favour of mixed boasting, claiming that a public celebration cannot discriminate on grounds of gender. What then did the traditional bragging? A series of maneuvers to get the parade privatized and thus dodge the demands of the Basque High Court of Justice. And as in Gipuzkoa they could not form themselves as an association, because they did not comply with the law, for they went to Navarre; for the sake of tradition, they established their foundation in Navarre. No one's saying here that there's a cheer that doesn't parade, no one's saying don't parade anyone. We are saying that they have the right to parade all and all, in a public and egalitarian boast, and that women who want to participate in that boast can do so freely, because it is their right. And Mr Lehendakari, I repeat, is the highest representative and should be the symbol of respect and demonstrate his commitment to equality, because other parties do. We see him in 2004, Urkullu on the balcony receiving Celedon. Very interesting. Two days before the rally, at the harvest party of the Rioja Alavesa, another party that has no problem. Why not go to a party where a problem is being generated and say enough of machismo and discrimination? Why don't you just stand in front of the Mayor of Hondarribia and tell him yes or yes we'll take care of all the cheers just like that? Another, two days after Hondarribia's boast, visiting Anoeta's works. Is this more important than going to mediate and receive an egalitarian boast that is fighting for equality between women and men? And to make it clear to everyone, this is not a problem of coexistence, this is a problem of discrimination, because the only thing that is forbidden is for women to participate in the holidays freely. And that's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u61	Thank you, Ms. Arana. EHGG rep. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u62	I'll listen to him now. I drink water. Mrs. Bengochea, I don't think I understood or didn't want to understand. The example I've put here was a positive example, and I was putting what happened here in value. It was a personal example, of course, but I didn't want to or meant to say that what happened here was a positive pattern and I took it to the sandrun why it didn't happen, why it wasn't here that I lived here, here in this space, why it couldn't happen in the sand. That was the question. And I wasn't telling you what happened to me in the sandland. I'm not going in there. But I was saying this was a positive example. And I've mentioned Mr. Sémper, and then I'll explain to him that it was a positive example that we could agree together from the difference and that we could protect each other. And I don't think I've been trying to understand that what I've been trying to understand or understood was used the way it was intended, and I really didn't want to go through it. On the other hand, you mentioned that in Irun and sandland the town halls are turned back. The Jamaican Company hasn't turned his back to the City of Wastehall for a moment. In fact, he also gives up all his papers. But he still has to ask for the march. And from Irun, if I'm not mistaken, it's both protestations. Yes, yes. And there, too, the peer-at-arms also asked for hospitality and collected with groups and even with petitions. Then, if they could cease to be demonstrations, as well as members of the peers of Irungo and sandrivi, I believe they would leave it very soon, but unfortunately, in the tejesjejejejejes of some retrospect laws. I say the same to Mme. Rojo, I think I don't quite understand, and I don't want to bring her here as a negative pattern, so it's all right to say. It's important for us to make the official reception of Mr. Urkullu. We planned a step back because we asked you to stay on September 8th and June 30th. We believe that it is important, because things change for us and for us, unfortunately, because the peers do not yet possess the protection of the principal institutions of their countries, and therefore, while they do not have that protection, we believe that the protection of another kind is indispensable. In the hope that we don't need Urkullu or Izaskun Landaida or that they just come to enjoy and to pamper But, alas, we believe these phenomena necessary. But we were prepared to stay with an officer, but there we found the spot where we weren't. The point is, we think, that we cannot ask this officer for everyone, because some have not yet received this official hospitality. But I have put it in value at the end of my discourse, that I think I have, Madam de Bersacin, that things have changed, because the discussion of a time would be given in another way, and that we should have a much more difficulty in reaching the continental parts of our proposition. Yeah, I think we've made an effort there to put other positions on the table too. And I think that if we go on that way, we'll make a constructive proposal and we'll be able to do it. All the same, the petitions to sit down and talk. Because I'd like to end up with this letter, they've made demands from Jamecken and the fellow Irungo alarde, they've been asked to sit and talk to the rest of the party, and that other side didn't mean it. And we know he tried to drive a media, and who stopped that media? Who wasn't having a good time? He couldn't have met Alarde before he met a brake and a wall, but they call it "for the alarde," because it was the public, it belonged to the people, and it was to be a party. And we preach it: where men and women, public, peers, and festivals, will be able to comfort them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Houseboy. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u64	Thank you. I will answer some of the things that have been said here starting with Mrs Etxebarrieta. Look, Mrs Etxebarrieta, in Irún it is tradition that the first document that enters by registration in the year, on 2 January, is always that of the Board of Commands of the Alarde to organize the traditional alarm. In other words, the traditional pride is related to the City Hall, that is, we have no doubt about that. Then, what I would like to say to this House is this: you or groups here are asking you to sit down and talk, mediation, etc., etc. There's a part, there's a way to participate in parties that feel deeply insulted by institutions, and that's it, that's it. They understand that they are called "machistas", they understand that the institutions are clearly decanted by a way of celebrating the boast, they understand that organizing a boast in which they parade about 7,000-7,500 people is something very expensive, and everything is done with money from their pockets. Meanwhile, the mixed cheer receives all kinds of subsidies, all kinds of aid. All kinds, of the Foral Diputation, I don't know if Emakunde will have, but of course of the Foral Diputation of Gipuzkoa sure. So, here we talk about emotions and feelings and I don't know what. If you want to go beyond the emotions and feelings of 85% of the population of Irún and Hondarribia, then go ahead, but I will not do it, nor will our group do it. At the same time, we stand up for the right of other people to organize another different boast. It is that that is plurality, the expression of all ways of feeling or seeing a situation. And I'm going to tell Mrs. Arana, really, a little pity already gives me, because it's because she's noticed in what the hostility says – I'm going to leave it there – yes, yes, anyway. We want the same as you, we want the same as you, we want a public boast where people can participate as they want and that exists, exists. People who want to participate in a mixed cheer can do so. There is. What I think you're quiet about is that what you want, too, is for the other one not to come out. Then what's the problem? What's going on with the two of you? And what the government has to do here is to prevent any hostility. I will now refer to Irun quickly because I see that time is running out. In 20 years, family and social cohesion has come together very much and there is respect, and there is respect, and the people of the same gangs participate in one and the other. In Hondarribia it seems that it is not, but one of the things that contributed most to pacifying Iron's boast was as simple as the schedule. Let's see, the Department of Interior puts the timetables, in the municipality of Irun what was done was that the traditional exit first, the exit was advanced, and then the mixed exit. And in the evening, upside down; with this, those who wanted to see one or the other did not converge on the sidewalks. In Hondarribia, with only half an hour's advance of the alards and first the traditional, and half an hour's delay that of the company Jaizkibel, and done backwards in the afternoon, we would have the problem solved. And that's what there is, the freedom for everyone to participate and celebrate the party as they please. And that's plurality and that's plurality. And as for receiving, I reaffirm again, to me any person who relates to the City Hall I will be there to receive them. But as long as the traditional boaster asks permission to make a demonstration, as if he did, I know, the Falange or did the group such, I don't have the obligation to participate in a demonstration, I don't have it; but if those people, many of whom I am fond of, were related to the City Hall, I would be there to receive them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Rojo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u66	Thank you, President. To begin with the anecdote, Carmen Calvo is informed of everything, Mrs Arana, don't worry, there is coordination between the Socialist Party of Gipuzkoa and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party. And I'll tell you one thing that I hadn't used for a long time when I was addressing someone from Podemos, is that in Euskadi it doesn't all start when we get to the institutions, and I'll tell you more, Mrs. Arana, to contribute this with the facts they speak for themselves: in 2012, Patxi López ruled in Euskadi. The first prize that Emakunde gives on an equality issue, given by Mrs Idoia Mendia, the one that you have spoken about, meaning I don't know what about the mayor of Irun, is given by the Socialist Party of Euskadi. The first time Emakunde gives a prize and you know who he gives it to? You know who? To the egalitarian alards of Hondarribia and Irun. And that was done by the Basque Socialist Party. And by the way, Mr Santano is not mayor of the PSE, he is mayor of the citizens of Irún. Of those who vote for you and of those who don't. Just so we're clear. Second data: year 2014, Socialist Youth of Euskadi awards the Prize for Equality. You know who? To the Jaizkibel company. I mean, by his facts, he'll be known. And to speak of everything a little bit, Euskadi's Secretary General of Socialist Youth, Azahara Domínguez, a party partner in the organization in which I started in politics, has been participating for 10 years in the mixed boast of Irún. She doesn't wear her handkerchief one day, she's been wearing txiribitera txiribitera for 10 years. And to continue, I'll tell you: I think we need to broaden the view a little bit when we talk about some parties and others. And I think we have to be fair to the history of each party. And I think that you, if you would have wanted and listened to the speech I made in my first speech, could have drawn some conclusions, which I see you did not want. Because I have drawn a conclusion: here there has been a possibility on the part of some parties to try to find a consensus – which I am sure we will end up with, I am sure – and there is one part, Mrs Arana, which has made the agreement impossible, clinging to a single point, which was the only point of dissent. And you said, "It's not a cohabitation problem." I didn't say it was a cohabitation problem. I said that it is a problem of discrimination that affects the coexistence of two municipalities. And that should worry us, too, huh? We should be concerned on a daily basis about what happens in these municipalities and in all of them, and not only when we come to talk about a specific topic. And for trying to conclude with what I've started. When Emakunde, with Patxi López of lehendakari, delivers the prize to the two alards, he does not do it in a form of anecdote, but does it, textually by the director of Emakunde, "for the battle for equality between men and women, using peaceful means for this". I mean: Mrs Idoia Mendia, who is the award-granter; Azahara Domínguez, who is the prize-granter and goes through the streets of her city, not a day, as I say, for ten years – holding a lot too, eh?–, and Mrs Maria Silvestre, they are all from the Basque Socialist Party, just like Mr López, who was the lehendakari. Therefore, Mrs Arana, I believe that on issues of equality, lessons to the Socialist Party, which is the one that sets the law in motion, who has worked on everything. Look, Mrs. Arana, you have a problem. They have come to institutions and want the world to paralyze. And then let's start building Euskadi's story based on when we can sit in a seat. Well, look, this isn't like that. So, instead of worrying about what Carmen Calvo knows or not, read the equality proposals that Carmen Calvo proposes on behalf of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and that supports my party. That's what you have to worry about. Which seems like so bad doesn't seem to you, when we've made a little deal this week. Looks like we're not that far away. Then let us not use the concrete problem of a municipality, because this parliamentarian, who is not from Irún and is not from Hondarribia, but knows what happens because I have prepared a lot of the issue and I talk to my party partners, recognizes that there is a problem that needs to be solved. It recognizes that there is a law, which is not interpretable, Mrs Bengoechea, that must be complied with. And we'll work on it. And to conclude, I say to the spokesman for the People's Party, when I said that there are 85% who support one thing and 15% of another. Look, neither 85 nor 93, it is not necessary to go above any percentage, because they are all citizens on equal terms, with the same rights and the need to live in freedom. And we have a law in Euskadi and an organic law in Spain "From Mr Zapatero, Mrs. Arana, who is not from Pablo Iglesias, because at the time he was on the contretto", which is about to be fulfilled. Therefore, the Socialist Party of Euskadi and the Spanish Worker nor half a lesson in equality. And that concludes, Madam President. An allegation in recognition of my colleague Azahara Domínguez, who was 20 years younger, walked through the streets of Irun and certainly never thought to come to the Basque Parliament or to the headquarters of my party with his handkerchief. You have to dress up as a txiribitera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u67	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u68	Yes, thank you. Well, in my first speech, I said that things haven't changed in 20 years, and, well, Mrs. I told you I'd like to close this deal with you anyway. I agree also with what Mrs. Rojo said that Mrs. Arana has insisted on the presence of the President. That made it difficult, and finally it was impossible, but I think we might have gone ahead today, and that's what makes me glad. When I said that at least I've been told that I've been in the sand for many years without the Jamaican company and the eternal Allées talking, I don't know who's been invited and who doesn't want to talk. I just said they don't talk and I think we should end up with that. And that it's all our responsibility to start talking and get to a solution by the two sides that really live at a party. And Mrs Arana, you too are interested in the PNV almost everything but your opinion of things, because I think I don't know if you haven't heard me or wanted to hear me. Did you hear anything I said? Nothing I've said is worth it? I told you why I think the presence of the lehendakari does not bring anything. And I have said that with all the respect that he deserves me, to position himself in one part, that I understand the need for visibility, which Mrs Etxebarrieta said, but I believe that the proposal that we were making that the lehendakari is willing to receive all those who have something to say on this issue and also to provide something from its maximum responsibility in this country, so that we will not be here again next year, because I think that it might have been worth today for us to reach an agreement. And again it was you – forgive me to tell you and repeat what Mrs Red said – who insisted on something that I think is a rather simplistic solution proposal for a problem that I understand is much more complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Now that the argument is over, we'll vote together with the middle-direction signed by Podemos and EH Collector. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u70	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u71	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we'll vote for the middle-term correction that the Basque Socialists and the Euccaner have signed. No middle correction, we'll vote the corrections of the whole area. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 36; the contrary, 9; the whites, 1; the abstainments, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u72	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Pull together the proposition as a parlamentary group, in order to examine the state of the pensioners of the offering, and to represent an integral action of the conditions of their lives. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The lady of the Kortha, the representative of the EH Group, has the intention of introducing and defending the word. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u73	Thank you, ma'am, and, members of the legislature, good noon to all. For the last few months, pensioners of euscals have filled the streets with their proclamations for pensions and worthy lives, and with them the conditions of many pensioners have been discovered. It is evident that the situation of the thousands of pensioners who live in complete pre-pity, and especially of those women who never make a trial of, who have been working without a salary for decades, and who are then the lowest pensions, and suffer the greatest degree of preparation. Yesterday was an international day against poverty, and a woman and a pensioner-that is to say, the characteristic of many persons who occupy the purse of retirement and poverty. That's why we chose to bring this subject to discussion today, even if it has that profile. In my previous career, in my professional career with the greatest poverty, I learned that what I did not see does not exist, and that what does not exist does not interfere in political books, and that it is difficult to plan upon that which does not exist in political books, and that the decisions are seldom taken or made of such a choice. This is why it is so important to struggle with poverty to shake and change collective statues, and to make them visible to those hidden realities. This is probably another achievement of pensioners' mutations: the pensioners, and especially the poverty of pensioners, in the presence of the eye, to be visible, and to enter the political diary. But it is true that in this case, in this reality, there is something special. It doesn't exist, but we see this. These states of poverty and dignity are very close: Our grandmother, our mother, our aunt, our eternal neighbor... These are the women who live in very low pensions. I'm sure any of you will recognize someone in such a situation. And in the past few months he has seen that such testimony has also appeared in the press, and that many of you have probably been very close to it. It is not a reality so foreign to us as other kinds of poverty. Still, he's invisible. He's funny, isn't he? The question is, when pensions are concerned, the air of the crack of men and women's pensioners. It is evident that our social organisation, and, above all, the most important consequences of social care, the disproportion of this organization, remains visible in the condition of pensioners. Maybe it's just what we don't want to see or what some people at least want to hide. You see, yesterday I had the chance to have a lecture about pensions, and they talked about it with the cracks given between men and women in pensions and pensions. Elisabet Oja listened to him and the feminists of action were doing very clever things. As to the data of the community, contrary to what is often thought, the first pension is a pension between the women who live in this community. In the Social Security System, there are 143,265 pensioners, and the men are 223.487. Among them there are some of them who receive a minimum pension, most of them women in the thirty-two-fifty-in general regime, four-19 are male men, in the government of 31 autonomoers, and in the same situation there are only 13% of men, and in the belief that 19 SOVI are only the men who are in it. The differences, I think they're obvious. 94% of these pensions of the SOVI, which is this compulsory old-age and retirement insurance, are for women, only 5.89 are for men. And we can continue to give him data, because they're all very impressive. In this community, 907 euros are the average pension of women in pensions, and 1,568 euros are the most male, 661 in other pensions. 73% of the women who have pensions receive a pension below 1,000 Euro, only 29% of which are among the men. There are 20,000 pensioners from the age of 85 in this community, and women in that interval receive a pension of 642 euros, while men receive 1.29 euros. The difference is between 650. Between 80 and 84 years, the difference is 707 euros, and the greatest difference between 75 and 79 years of age, in which the difference is established 810 euros. And you make up your mind: the wants of care and the quality of life that may be with that age. It's easy. 45% of the pensioned women receive widows' pensions, and the average of widows is 785 euros, which are placed under the threshold of poverty by 30 or 35% of pensioners, 667 euros in a month, and more than a quarter of them are women. And they get less than 335 euros a month. 25% of the rental benefits to ensure incomes, most of them, two to three, women. Data reflecting the reality of thousands of women working in family businesses but never discharged, only they were discharged; women who did not have access to high-quality employment sectors, such as the industrial sector; women who have entered and left the labour market to care for themselves; and they also reflect the reality of women who had to leave work when they got married; women who in many cases suffered from an expulsion from paid employment, who were sentenced to care, by a conception of what they also understood to be their obligations. I would suggest Isabel Otxoa that we take this into account when we talk about historical memory and I think it is a very interesting reflection that she wanted to share with you, because unlike, for example, retaliated trade unionists, women have never been compensated for their convictions for care. In addition, it should also be said that the cuts and reforms that have taken place in recent years in pension systems have had a very significant impact on women. Cuts have been made with regard to widow's pensions. There was also the disappearance of the pension and the shared minimums, which were recognized with the adoption of the Separation and Divorce Act, which became a compensatory pension in 2007 and left thousands of women who did not have such compensation by their husbands without a retirement pension. Up to 2008 it took 12 and a half years to have a retirement pension, but with the suspension of the concept of day-to-quota for the calculation of the generation, the years needed to receive that pension are increased by two years, and many women are also left out of this option. In 2012 there was the abolition of the social security agreement for family care and this also left a lot of women out of their chances and truncated, in some way, their contribution careers. Since July 2012, the gap coverage has been reduced to 50% and this also has a significant impact on women. Isabel Otxoa also told us, a very interesting reflection, that early retirements are men's things. These pensions are mainly in men's sectors and the rate of activity of single women over the age of 60 is much higher than that of men at the same age. Women can't be prejubilated, because they have to keep working. All these data clearly reflect the precariousness of women pensioners. And it shows that if there is any apparent crack between men and women, it is among the pensioners. We must necessarily arrive at the discussion of pensions, but not only in the discussion of the pension system, but in order to observe the conditions of the distribution function which the pension system ought to have, and above all we must set up the patience of life at the center of the discussion. But life is not only supported by economic resources. We live longer, and in a good state of health, but, in the same way, in growing old, sickness and dependence increase, and we need more assistance. And reality is the fact that as we grow older, the capacity for self-preservation is limited, that we need help in the domestic work and actions that are common to us in everyday life, and that we have less opportunity to be a relative or near relative to us. And reality is that the limits of public care are obvious, and that we are often obliged to go to the offer of care given in private, but of course it must be paid, and that requires money, and I shall not repeat the data, but it is difficult for me to pay those pensions with a pension that goes back to 700 euros. And look, there's a highly striking data that appears in that poll that is made around social needs: 39% of people who have a serious dependency has no resources at all. He climbs to 40% when the number of those who have no resources for help is moderate, and he tries to compare himself to 65% of those who have a light addiction. Many of them are pensioners, pensioners with low pensions, and many, most of them, women, who have no money to pay for them. It's a terrible situation, and it's an immense influence on the conditions of life and the chances of their growing up in worthy conditions. And it is evident, as has been said before, that in the heart of this dispute our social organisation is uncertain, and especially the social organization of care, and the differences between productive and refractory. That's in the middle of this discussion. And it is up to repair and compensate these women who have sustained life, who sustain life. It touches on subverting priorities, establishing new balances and putting people at the centre of public policy. We need a new balance, a reopening of protection, and a response to those proclamations on March 8th, because even pensioners have succeeded. It is now time for us to form conditions which will enable us to have projects of happiness, and this may be a small step in which the enterprise which we have set before us today may be. What we are asking essentially is to study the situation of these women deeply. As I said before, we ask you to browse every angle you can have in the state of these women. In this profound study, one must examine the conditions of life and of age, such as the conditions of a career and productive work of care, and of productive industry; and we wish to appreciate the contributions made in the refractory work, to the extent of the social settlement, and to examine the conditions of their age-relations and conditions. And, of course, based on that examination, we're asking fun to bring back this state of premeditation of pension women, to record the contribution made, and an integral plan of action worthy of the conditions of life. We believe that at the present day the diagnosis and planning will be useful in this conjunctal work of equality and of pay. And further, we should say that even the need of such a diagnosis is to be shared with the wants of institutions like the gift, because the Emenation itself has arranged a discussion about this matter for the following days. And I think we've all seen clearly that all the rest of the teams have been forced to do this work, and that it's easy to make a deal with the Socialist Party and the Sonicitian members of the Party, and that the protection of those groups who had no corrections has been very easy, and that's very important, because, as we have often said, we've got to set up together a strategy that will help us set up a new balance, just to lead the foundations of the feminist, strong, and radical. And besides, I think we shall have new companions in this business, because yesterday we welcomed Oneka to the new platform of the Pentesian women, who probably will be escorted to us in this way, and that is always welcome. I already remembered in this atril a tweet that Yayo Herrero took into account the mobilizations of pensioners, which said that "a decent society is one that recognizes and cares for its elders, that does not bury their memory and that does not condemn them to perpetuity". And I would add that a decent society is one that recognizes the value of care, that takes responsibility for it, that values it, and that, of course, it does not condemn precariousness or darkness to women who have sustained life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u75	Thank you, President. Now it's my turn to say good afternoon. Well, the Socialist Group seems to us very pertinent to introduce the gender perspective also in the area of pensions, and it is especially relevant when the proposing group reminds us of the gap not already waged, but the social gap that women are suffering from. It is perpetuated in an unbearable way when it comes to the moment in life in which, according to article 50 of the Constitution, "public authorities must ensure sufficient resources and social services to address their specific problems of health, housing, culture and leisure". I will start with that second question, that of the public obligation, which we Socialists advocate must be dealt with from a public pension system, which is the first to be guaranteed. Its sustainability, we understand, cannot be questioned. We are all aware of the challenges it faces, but it is our duty to make it sustainable and not to make it dependent, as has been done in the past six years, on income being reduced or decided to allocate that income to other things. That is why my group wants to take advantage of this debate to ratify us in the very broad agreement of this House on 1 March, in which we pointed out the measures we believe should be agreed under the Toledo Pact: that current pensions should be updated according to the cost of living, that the lowest pensions should be revalued, that their funding should be shielded so that contributions should not be spent on non-benefits and that new sources of income should be obtained, that contributions should be guaranteed with the recovery of labour rights cancelled with the latest labour reform, and that economic improvement should be linked to an improvement in wages. We have started that path, since the necessary change of Government of Spain took place, and it is going to continue, if the parties to which we belong who are here and promote that change we agree on the accounts for the next year. An obligation agreed upon at the time had already been established: the progressive improvement of those pensions, which mainly affected women, the lowest and widowhood pensions. But this must be only the beginning, because in order to correct this gap that we are talking about today, we must act from the ground up, from the great gap that affects their wages and the conditions in which they can exercise their professions. And for that it will be very important the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, the measures that equal the parental responsibilities from the very birth of the sons and daughters will be essential, and the measures that are proposed to turn around the most damaging aspects of the last labor reform, among other issues that are reflected in the basic agreement signed by the socialist government and with Podemos, will be decisive. The truth is that it is insulting that today there is someone who demonizes a political proposal with that budget base, it is insulting that we are being filled with talk of equality and despise how the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage is being made, that if some collective will benefit with greater intensity it is precisely those who are most at risk for their future pensions: young people and women. It is insulting that someone who claims to have pretensions of being President of the Government says that he will do his utmost to prevent that rise, but in that previous political agreement the basis is laid for us to correct that gap from its very beginning. And I do not evade our responsibility, the responsibility we have in Euskadi. I have started by reiterating our defence of the law and the need for a public pension system and the law and the need for a public social protection network to ensure in every household, including pensions, the care of their vital needs. As we have explained in previous debates, the public pension system is a right recognized by the Constitution, and a necessity in a country that wants to be defined as a "social state". The public system of social protection is a right that we have won knowing how to develop our own self-government, which the socialists want to be recognized in the future status and a need, which, like the Basques, has a strong will to move forward in a cohesive way. And with that status, with those powers and with that responsibility, we must bridge this gap. We have started with what is in our hands in terms of wages and working conditions. There is already a Family Plan aimed at the equalization of paternity leave, and there is also a commitment to Emakunde and the Department of Labour to address discrimination against women in their labour income. This proposal is being worked on with assessed and evaluable measures. Some are in the hands of public administrations and others will require collective bargaining. And we believe that the Social Dialogue Bureau, where the Government and social actors are, would be an appropriate framework for laying the foundations for that goal that we all say we share. We therefore call once again for all actors, all of them, to come to that forum when they have to address the measures that will be announced in a few weeks. And we would also like to reiterate our call for consensus among the groups, so that we can regain the proposal to reform our GIR. EH Bildu has pointed to this improvement in its initial approach to the budgets of our Autonomous Community. It has referred to equality, how to bridge the wage gap, improving the quality of employment and to GIR as issues on which such accounts could be favoured. We are not going to have that debate today, except when the Government's draft budgets are not even approved, but indeed we will be talking about this, especially because we already have proposals on the table. Now the Socialists want to warn of the risk of someone being tempted by subsidiary pensions. We want to have a debate on rights, not aid, and GIR is a right, yes, but it is the right of those who do not have enough income to survive. And the goal of this right, at least for socialists, must be that every time fewer people need external support, workers and pensioners have sufficient income to meet all their vital needs, obtained by their employment or obtained by the right to public pension. In any case, we share objectives and believe that we have to explore all the possibilities of our self-government to achieve them. Six years ago, and on the proposal of the Socialist Group, we were the first to compensate for the pharmacy expenditure of more than 100,000 pensioners in order to alleviate the "medicine", which has begun to stand in the way of the new government. As we encourage measures to compensate for energy costs, for those who, like many pensioners who, for various reasons, do not have access to social emergency aid, but their income does not allow them to pay their bills. Therefore, we have been acting, we have not stopped attending to the collective of pensioners, we have not stopped proposing and promoting what guarantees their dignity, we have not stopped defending a public system that makes it possible and we believe that this specific study is also necessary that addresses the reality of an inequality gap that begins in working life and perpetuates in retirement. The Socialist Group wants to break that loop because we are not doomed to infinite inequality. We understand that the original initiative was very similar to the compromise amendment that we signed by the parties that are part of the Government and therefore welcome the agreement. It is true that much is being said about pensions, and more in recent years. It is true that there is sometimes talk of a global way, of men and women in the same way, but it is also true that the situation of women also in pensions is something that deserves special attention. Therefore, we welcome the agreement and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u76	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. I really need water, because my throat's sore. I'll fill my glass just in case. Congressmen, good noon to all. This lawman will already know some facts, and Mrs. Kotha's has also mentioned them. I'd like to have two highlights. On the one hand, in comparison with the men, women receive less than 661 in their pensions. And the second, and the lady of the Kotja, mentioned it as a pensionist from 25% of the people who rent their income to ensure their incomes. I mean, two out of three, women. It is plain, therefore, that it is a remarkable rift between men and women, and that it is increased among the pensioners. At the beginning of the year, in January, we discussed this parliamentary assembly of wages. One of the factors that nowadays influence and perpetuates the difference between women and men is my salary division, I said. We even then spoke of the causes of the offering as numerous and different. Thus we women gain less in general because we have less than the hours of work paid, because we work in the smaller sectors, or because we have fewer delegations in the upper offices of the enterprise, and for the same work, especially because we receive less wages than men. These arguments are very general, because if I went to detail, I would not have time enough, and I mentioned them at that meeting in January. The result of this situation is the state of the pensioners of women who have been warned by facts at the beginning of my participation. That is to say, they are connected with the conditions of wages and of pensioners, which is a just consequence. When we discussed the pay-roll, we agreed to do a plan of action, and this will soon be introduced. All of the process of involvement is currently being opened. At least I won't enter the discussion about pensions. I do not believe it to be the end or spirit of the original proposition, but the disposition of the women of Eukadin pensioners, if possible, was the improvement of this spirit. That's why I don't want to get involved. It's important, at least, in our opinion, the agreement we've made today, the medium we've signed. On the one hand, in order to complete the profound examination of the social state of pension women, and on the other, to make fun of it, many departments have something to do with the results, always together with the results, and always in the year 2019, that such diagnosis, plans, etc., may be completed, they need time to do so well, and, based on this examination, present an integral plan for answering the prelimination of women who have pensions. Even data received in the diagnosis for the purposes of action against the above pay-gathering, and even those actions which the same plan receives, will be of great use, and will be of use in this case, because they are connected with each other in a just manner. So our team sees the positive of this deal today, which is absolutely necessary. So that a new step of today, useful to improve the life of pensioners, presupposes a new progress in the real and effective equality of men and women, in order that they may develop their lives with dignity. I would like to thank Mme. We saw from the beginning that we had them at the meeting, and it was easy to value them for today. So, thank you. As Mrs. Kortja herself has advanced, I don't know if that will be the case, I think I'd like to thank for the support of the groups that haven't been corrected. That's all, thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Basque Popular. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. EH collect has brought us an interesting subject to discuss this entire meeting. The popular party did not make any correction, and at last, as we believe, the signed agreement is a good one, we give our help, and it appears that this will be effected by unanimous consent. Without a doubt, the issue we are addressing today is a debate of interest, the situation of Basque women pensioners, which also leads us to address the two issues that directly affect the situation of Basque women pensioners, such as the gender gap and the issue of pensions. When we talk about the gender gap, we are talking about multiple issues where women are in an unequal situation with regard to the situation of men. We're talking about the largest number of hours that women devote to family care, homework, family care, I'm talking about children, I'm talking about dependent people. We are also talking about higher rates of temporaryity and partiality of women, and it should be remembered that 70% of part-time contracts are occupied by women. We are also talking about the gap in women's remuneration; in that regard, I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that the women we are working on the public issue and that we are in this Parliament, in that regard, are privileged in relation to the equality situation that other women working in the private sphere should have, but I would like to say that the inequality situation does not exist in the women we work in the public sphere. But he wanted to refer to that gap in the average remuneration of women over the average of men, as well as the pay gap with maternity. And in this sense, the latest data provided by Emakunde at the wage gap table, a few months ago, spoke of the annual average earnings of a worker in Euskadi, which is 27.571 euros, and that in men 31.089 euros and women 23.537 euros. Therefore, there is a notable difference. And no doubt that wage gap of women throughout working life conditions the pensions of the future. That is why from the People's Party of the Basque Country we applaud justice measures such as those that have been launched by the People's Party in the Government of Spain, by the Government of Mariano Rajoy, as was the arbitrage of a maternity supplement, as contained in Law 48/2015 of 29 October, which was already applied with effect from 1 January 2016, and which complements pensions to those women who had requested it since that date who had been mothers. Everyone, and I think it has also been said here by the proposer, by Mrs Kortajarena, that women's careers are shorter and that pensions are therefore smaller. Therefore, I believe that the arbitrary complement put in place by the Government of the People's Party, with President Mariano Rajoy, was a matter of justice in relation to the wage gap, which women also have in the area of pensions. It is also estimated that this maternity supplement in 2019 covers 500,000 women throughout the Spanish geography, which I believe is a hugely positive fact. Here Mrs Kortajarena said that women have left and entered the labour market, that they have stopped working, and I believe that this measure is a positive measure, as I say, to try to remedy injustices with women pensioners and, above all, with those women who have had to leave their careers, enter and leave the labour market to attend to their children and family issues. Even when we talk about the situation of women pensioners, we must certainly talk about pensions, about the public pension system we have, an essential element of cohesion and solidarity between citizens, and these values have been built by the contributions of many generations. That is why we say, and we like to say in the People's Party, and I want to claim it again from this rostrum, that the pension system is a pact between generations. We are, of course, talking about an issue that affects the whole population. Pensions are of interest to us all: those who are today pensioners and who are concerned about their pension and whether they will continue to collect their pension; those who pretend to be so in the future. Therefore, to talk about pensions is to talk about preserving our state of well-being and, of course, we believe that these debates must be addressed from the serenity, from the rigour, from the consensus, without attempts to patrimonialize a debate that, as I say, belongs to us all. It is a question of state, it affects our coexistence, solidarity among all, intergenerational and therefore, as I said, it is an issue that affects us all. And that is why any responsible government has to ensure the sustainability of the public pension system, it has to make the system viable, and that is done with decisions, with decisions that make the system fair, sustainable, supportive, equitable. And, of course, the solution, the only solution that guarantees the sustainability and viability of the public pension system is to generate employment, ladies and gentlemen, because if employment increases, quotas increase. The only thing that guarantees today's and tomorrow's pensions is job creation, the more and better jobs, the more and the better pensions. I would like to recall, in this regard, how the People's Party Government returned to a particularly critical situation; how, in 2011, when President Mariano Rajoy entered the Government, winning an election by an absolute majority, for each new contributor who entered Social Security, three people came out of the Social Security system. When Mariano Rajoy left the government, for a pact between different parties to remove the president legitimately elected by the citizens, in a motion of censure, for each new contributor six jobs were generated. This is the situation, ladies and gentlemen. In six years, the People's Party government with responsible decisions, responsible decisions and citizens' efforts managed to reverse a particularly critical situation and guarantee with concrete reforms the pensions of then, of the moment and of the future. I would like to recall that, in relation to what I have said, the best guarantee for sustaining a public pension system is to create employment and, in this regard, I have to remember that in 2015, 2016, 2017, with the People's Party government, with the government of Mariano Rajoy, 500,000 jobs were created every year. This is the situation, therefore, I think it is also fair to claim from this rostrum when things have been done well and when, of course, courageous decisions have been taken to ensure our welfare and, in this case, the public pension system. And all this said, throughout this intervention I have tried to address the two issues that I believe have a direct impact and which have to do very directly with this initiative that Bildu brought us today, which is the issue of the gender gap, with the different situations of inequality that we women suffer and, in this regard, with the situation of Basque women pensioners, but I also want to demand what needs to be done and what prescriptions, which are already invented, to ensure a public pension system. I believe that all we have to do is have courage, conviction and the commitment to want to carry them out. We, as I said at the beginning of my speech, are not submitting an amendment because we are in favour of the initial approach, of the initiative put forward by EH Bildu, so we are also going to join the agreement in which Emakunde is going to study the socio-economic situation of women pensioners throughout 2019. Let us hope that the Government will also be diligent in bringing this study to this House as soon as possible, so that we can know the situation of these women and, above all, also appeal to the responsibility of all parties to know what decisions we have to take in the future and in the immediate future, precisely in order to ensure the sustainability of the public pension system. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u80	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Poedemus. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u81	Good afternoon. From Elkarrekin We understand that this initiative is another step forward so that we can learn more and better about the impact of gender inequality on women's daily lives throughout their lives and can help to take action to intervene on situations that were until recently invisible. It is an opportunity to put a granite sand to improve women's lives and recognize their anonymous and persistent contribution to our society. We welcome the agreement that has been reached and we will also vote in favour. The elderly are one of the main population groups in Euskadi, due, among other things, to increased life expectancy. At present almost 20% of the people living in Euskadi are over 65 years old, it is all said that this percentage will be expected to rise in the coming years. It is expected that by 2040 the population over the age of 65 will be able to rouse one third of the total census. On this occasion we focus on the situation of older women: being women and older women constitute two sources of inequality; in a still patriarchal society they are factors that put us in a situation of vulnerability or high vulnerability. If another is added to these variables such as class, race, origin, sexual orientation or gender identity, the risks of being excluded are further enhanced. Older women have daily lives that are the result of accumulating all the inequalities they have experienced throughout their life. The differences that occur in older women and men have to do with their life stories, with the status they have acquired, with their lived experiences. Gender roles imposed, sexist violence, sexual division of labour, precarious employment of women, with a high percentage of reduced hours, part-time contracts in generally lower paid sectors, precarious care sector, a strongly feminized sector, etc., etc. All this builds up and superimposes and leaves traces and ends up manifesting alarmingly, for example, in the amount of pensions, as we have already talked about here. In the last annual study of the state of poverty, in the eighth annual report on the risk of poverty and exclusion, there is a worrying fact that has also come out here, which we believe is important to continue highlighting in terms of widow's pensions. Almost all are women, widow's pensions, and 27.5 per cent are below the poverty line and 5 per cent of them would be below the severe poverty line. A fact that is really worrying and that is why it is very pertinent to make this proposal to make a specific study, to know more and better about this reality in order to implement measures and improve the lives of older women. But not only in economic income are inequalities made flesh, if we broaden our gaze we will see that because we have assumed throughout life the role of caregivers that has been imposed on them, today, when they are formally retired, many of them continue to work and contribute to society through care. Putting in the word "work" only what passes through the market and is paid has been a trap for women because it has been completely invisible all that is done to sustain life, which are the care, the tasks of the home, the education and socialization of children and adolescents, the care of dependent people, etc., etc. All that is work and is essential to sustain the system, any system. The older women of today have carried out this work all their lives in a completely invisible way, and they also began to do so at a time when it was not even known or widespread that the feminist economy had revised this partial and short-sighted view of the reality proposed by traditional and hegemonic economic theories. They began to do so at that time when women had "their jobs" as their profession. Today, older women continue to be a key part in sustaining life and social reproduction. Because they are anonymous and still silent, because they are still almost invisible to statistics and big plans, and they are an essential pillar in families with children and adolescents. Every time we talk about co-responsibility policies, conciliation, school hours, jobs, economic development we have to remember that without them they are not possible, because without them, the world is sure, that it would stop. The lack of universal care policies, lack of health or education policies are largely resolved and covered by them. All this has an impact on their economic income and also on their forms of leisure, on their health, on the form and time they devote, or rather, that they do not devote to self-care. They are experts in care. And for that and all that, it is necessary that this study, a study that sets attention on economic aspects and also on social aspects, in everything that makes up the life path of older women, and in everything that makes up their present. A study that analyses the work trajectories of older women in the work they consider productive, and also that puts magnifying glass in all the work that is not considered productive, because still today there are those who resist to take into account that without care there is no system that works, absolutely none. Impossible. A solidarity society such as Basque guarantees protection and well-being to all citizens and always taking into account situations that can generate greater vulnerability. We hope and hope that this study and the plan of measures will be useful for improving their lives, and it will also be a tool to recognize the contribution of older women in the past and in the present to this society. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u82	Thank you, Miss Arana. We'll take the answers turn. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u83	Yes, there are seats, if you please, Mr. Chairman. I didn't mean to, but I'd like to discuss two words. There has been a time when I thought we were in another place that was not the Basque Parliament and at another time that was not the current one. And then I would like it not to be relegated to a background what we have agreed here today, which is the important thing. And they are, that unanimously we will approve two specific actions that are a diagnosis and an integral plan to help women pensioners in Euskadi. I said in my first speech in Basque that I did not want to enter into the debate on what pensions are, because I thought it was not the purpose of the original proposal, and so Mrs Kortajarena corroborated, so I would like to give the courage to the agreement that we adopted today, which is important and that is that: two specific plans, to draw up a diagnosis and a comprehensive plan to improve the situation of women pensioners here in Basque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Garrido the walker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u85	Yes, very briefly. I was going to answer Mrs Red, who thought I was going to leave, because with the impetus that usually characterizes her, to the reply, but I see that on this occasion it has not been so. But, Mrs Arrizabalaga, it is indeed that on many occasions we bring discussions that are competently the responsibility of other institutions, undoubtedly. But in this case we are talking about pensions that affect Basque women, and I certainly want to highlight the courageous decisions of the People's Party Government, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, which made it possible to ensure the sustainability of the public pension system. Those decisions that have led to the first time since 2008, in 2017, contributions being higher than expenditure; those decisions that highlight the two situations. The situation of the People's Party government in 2011, where three contributors were lost to each new social security contributor, and when Mr. Mariano Rajoy in a motion of censure has to leave the government that you supported, a week after having approved the budgets and ensuring the stability of a government, which he likes to say to Mr. Urkullu, six jobs were created for each new contributor. I would like to recall the situation of the People's Party Government in 2011, when it comes to the Government, which comes by an absolute majority, with a deficit in the pension system of €7 billion, with frozen pensions that had to be guaranteed by law with a People's Party Government, and with decisions that certainly guaranteed the sustainability of pensions. We still have to know the answer to why the Government of the Socialist Party did not allocate surplus funds to the reserve fund in 2008 and 2009 that had to be allocated to the reserve fund and that had been allocated to other issues. And one last reference to Mrs. Red. Well, we'll see what the accounts are for next year, but we'd like to see an exercise in transparency by the Socialist Party government, in this case with Pedro Sánchez at the head, explain to us how that bill is going to be paid and how that bill is going to be paid for those mortgages that Mr Sánchez has acquired to be president of the government. And the notorious labour reform you referred to in your first intervention has made it possible to generate 500,000 jobs in 2015, 2016 and 2017. We'll see how 2018 ends. What I have to point out to you and remind you, Mrs Red, is that for the first time Spain's growth forecasts for next year have been revised in a tenth, and that has been the result of the Socialist Party and Mr Sánchez having come to the presidency of the government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u86	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Miss Arana, do you have anything? Well, after the discussion, we're going to vote EH, the Basque Socialists and the Eucalists, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eucalists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-18.u87	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. As we have exhausted the list of subjects, I end the gathering. It was two and thirteen in the afternoon.
