ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of Mien Josun Gorosune Elekape, a member of the U.S. E.P.S. A.P.S.S.S.S.S.S.A.st. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u1	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief of departments, comrades. We're going to get a lot of work to the parliament, and it's about to be sent to us. And it's about to be accepted. Before summer, on June 12th, you agreed to make the budget projects like that, it was the question you remembered about, which was given. You took out from the press notice that this budget project was directed to the results and that the popular challenge, the four leading challenges, would be the project of the budget to prevent: education, digitalization, internationalization, and that supreme challenge of demography. We also know that economics are better than the Eurokadians, and this year. The rise of 2,8% will also be higher than the Eurocian next year, although it will be lower than this year. Therefore, clean employments have been created or created during this year, there are some hubecks, and others will be produced. You calculate 17,800 clean jobs, and next year there's going to be clean jobs, where we calculate about 13,200 jobs. That is to give an answer to the chieftains, employments, and high-quality employments of the people. Lehenengo egunean, herenegun, hitzaldi bat eman zenuen Bilbon eta orduan esan zenuen: "Ez digu inork ezer oparituko". I remember you, at the conference you offered in Bilbao two days ago, telling everyone we heard that "no one will give us anything; everything we have to do will be done by us." And so it has been throughout the history of Euskadi. Things are not by chance, they are by causation, and all the work that has been done since the Administration has borne fruit of its own model, the Basque model of sustainable human development that you so often defend, that has those challenges that we have commented on, that you pose them clearly. In this legislature they have set 15 objectives – You are again marking us what the levels of achievement are – a strategy and a defined economic-financial framework – medium-, short- and long-term planning. And at the moment, it is up to us to present the draft budgets. I'd be grateful to you this evening if we had some details of the chimpanzee that we'd like to have, if you'd like to tell us what's going to be the odds of the budget project you're going to make for the ethan targets, to respond to the local challenges, if you'd tell us what's the strategy to follow. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u3	Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, all of you ladies and gentlemen, good morning. And thank you, Mrs. Gorospe, for the opportunity you give me. Our program plainly expresses our principal aim: To continue to encourage the economy, to create more and better employment. At the same time, we've got to set up public policies and the social priority of 'Munch'. You have mentioned the bearable human development, and our model is bearable human development, and the establishment of priorities and agreements in a context without certainty and stability is indispensable. It's going to be a real responsible, realistic project. We must push the necessary changes, and respond to tomorrow's shootings. The realist project of the ancients, and through the budget we have to maintain the cycle of growth, and I could distinguish five of our priorities between 2020: To reduce the unemployment rate by 10%; to get 20,000 kids to have their first work experience, start a 100-new project at the Extra System, complete the European public deficit commitment, and reduce the poverty rate by 20%. The economic-budgetary guidelines to which you have referred, Mrs Gorospe, the guidelines of the Basque Government, are aligned with the model of sustainable human development and the Basque Country 2030 Agenda, which defines our vision for the future in the local and global scenarios. With this focus I highlight 10 core lines and priorities of the 2019 draft budget: It's realistic and responsible; it doesn't face any cuts. It is moderately expansive; part of the growth forecast of 2.6% of the Basque economy. It is committed to early fiscal consolidation; it is two years ahead of the commitment to reach the zero deficit. It lays the groundwork for the recovery of purchasing power from public salaries; staff costs will increase by an overall of 4%. It recovers the levels of public investment lost; investment will grow at least seven points, especially in education, health and infrastructure. It devotes special attention to education; incorporates the agreements reached with trade unions and prioritizes investment in educational infrastructure. It is committed to innovation; it ensures a 5% growth in public contribution to research and development. It guarantees commitment to families receiving income guarantee income; the amount of basic income will rise as much as public wages, as well as public wages. It encourages private investment; it makes a greater effort in all eligible programmes and transfers. It increases the contribution to equality policies; it assumes the objectives of the operational plan to combat the wage gap. The toughest years of the crisis give way to a period of drive for public investment, maintaining social commitment and ensuring fiscal consolidation. This is the investment budget: more investment to generate wealth and quality employment, to guarantee social policies and the Basque welfare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "Ask me, find out, Alonova Alonso, members of the team assembled to the president, about his plans to ensure the future of La Naval fleet in Seta. " Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u5	Good morning. Good morning to all of you and particularly to the workers of La Naval who are here with us today. Good day and good day, because your fight is hard, but it's necessary to have a future in the boat. I won't be long in explanations or presentations. La Naval shipol is in a critical state, already absorbed in reconnaissance. And so the question is correct. Is the audience ready to make a commitment to the future of this ship for public investing? The question is clear. Is the Basque Government willing to invest public money to keep the shipyard in La Naval open? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. And in my name and in the name of fun to the workers of La Naval, including the workers who don't come and those who don't work there. Mr. Casanova, this is a long time ago with the La Naval company and working for the La Naval company. In the past few years, even though the company has been charged with work, it has been difficult, and we have had to follow the situation closely, always by workers and directors. The differences which occurred within the Administration and the Administration Council caused the introduction of creditors in August 2017. So La Naval has been standing there for a long time, and it's true it's a company that's been in critical condition for years. Our attitude has always been the same: provide all help to maintain activity and job. Necessary actions: to seek the necessary agreement for the second dredge to be built in La Naval and allow us to search for future investors more calmly; to continue in the attraction of these investors, and to guarantee flexibility in the application of workers' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u9	Mr Urkullu, I know what the Government has done in defence of La Naval and I have not said in public, in private, in writing or in this rostrum that the Government is doing nothing. What I think is that at this point it's more than obvious than what It's not enough. It's not enough. Even the strongest of his supporters can understand that by continuing to do the same, let's go to obtain a different result. And we have time against it. Mr Urkullu, La Naval is not any company, because of its size, because of the volume of employment it generates, because of the sector in which it is located. –a sector of which is practically a subsector: it is the only representative of the construction of large ships with high technological component and high added value – and for its location in the Left Margen, – it is one of the last large industrial companies remaining in this region, a region that is very punished for decades of deindustrialisation and also for forgetting and abandoning by the institutions. Therefore, we find an exceptional company by size, sector and location; an extraordinary company that is in an extraordinary situation and requires extraordinary measures. I think it is time for this government to send a clear message, a message of commitment. A message of also economic commitment and willingness to participate with money and investments in the future of this shipyard, alone or looking for the company of another investor, but demonstrating to society and giving assurance that this government supports the future of La Naval. We need security and, yes, Mr Van Oord, the owner of the Van Oord company, needs security, and a message from the Basque Government would be positive. Any potential buyer can also understand that he will be assured of a commitment by the Basque Government to accompany him. The staff also requires that security, because it is in a critical and desperate situation; and Basque society and the Left Margin also require that security. He does not apologize, and although he has not raised it now, at other times it has been so, that European Union rules do not allow such investments to be made. We have told him at another time and we repeat it to him now: "He who does not want to do something seeks an excuse; he who wants to do something seeks a way." Mr Urkullu, you and your Government must seek a path within the lawfulness – which exists – a path within the lawfulness that exists, to make the necessary economic contributions to keep the yard open or to accompany a potential investor who wants to commit to the future. There are ways to do that and we ask you to explore them, we ask you not to use legality as an excuse. You are seeing on these screens, apart from my image, a clock, a clock with a countdown, and those of us who are on this rostrum are very aware of time. We also have it here and the workers are seeing it: a countdown that has also been activated in the shipyard of La Naval. There's money in cash to pay the payroll on November 10th, the competition manager said jobs will last as long as this month. This clock, which now wears orange because there is little time left, is going to be red in a few moments, and the Madam President is going to cut off my microphone. Also that clock is running for La Naval, it is in orange; it is in very dark orange, almost red. It is time for you, Mr Urkullu, to stop the clock and reactivate the future, hope and possibility that the Naval will remain open. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, yes, La Naval's a special company, but it's all about playing with everybody else. And you know the answer to your question better than that, Casanova, and don't cheat anybody. You know reality better than it is. I don't think any public organization in Europe can buy property in a company that's in difficulties. Look, I remember the letter sent by the Competition Directorate of the European Commission on September 18, 2017 – a day for me – warning us of the risk of being involved in state aid. Mr. Casanova, do not pretend to deceive anyone and less the workers of La Naval. Look, La Naval is a company in crisis and we cannot act with financial aid in a situation like this, by European legislation. Moreover, the conditions under which the Naval was privatized also made it difficult for the Government to take action. We have been asked for a report that is fundamental to what we can do and what is not possible, and we are preparing it. And we will prove that this is what we are saying. Look, after the opening of the competition, we could raise any other question: the entry into the shareholdership of the future company. After the start of the competition, Mr Casanova, after the start of the competition. I repeat, after the contest's out. We need to be very careful about the actions we take, so that they are not considered State aid. The only mention of this possibility in the future, by the lehendakari, who speaks to them, in a radio interview last year, led to the opening of an information file in European Competition and the request for very detailed clarifications. The Basque Government is acting and our priority focuses on two issues, trying to ensure the construction of the dredge with Van Oord and attracting investors to ensure the future viability of La Naval after the exit of the competition. From there, in this scenario, with a viable and industrial project, the Government could indeed analyse its participation, always, of course, according to investors, what has not happened in the past, Mr Casanova, when it was attempted. It is always, of course, in the terms that Community legislation establishes for these cases, and it is always, of course, counting on the commitment of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne Hiro, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, made to the president about 2019 Preventions." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u13	Good morning, Mr. Congressman, thank you. Mr. President. Welcome, also, to Naval employees, and to your spirit, truly, fighting. Mr. President, the time of the pacts made with the Popular Party, both Madrid and here, has passed for you, and with this the weakness of your government has also come to an end. Kurto's having a rough time for you. The gathering of general politics was severe, and the weekly gatherings are also being severe: In two weeks, you've already lost four votes. And this has a reason: missing conversation. We miss diálogo. It is all foresaw that it is also going to suffer from budgets: the possibility of the enormous political failure that would represent a budgetary extension flies over the environment. In the face of this situation, Mr Urkullu, you have already told us once again today, but in the face of a question from your own party, how fantastic the macroeconomic figures you are handling. What is he willing to change his course, his government's policies, to add a new partner to support his accounts? How much are you willing to move? How much are you willing to give up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u14	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Martinez jauna, the Government faces the search for support with two premises: this is a strictly budgetary negotiation and we are open to negotiation and agreement with all political forces. I mean, you know the basis of the "Muddy" proposal right away. You don't have a conversation? There hasn't been a meeting with you, Mr. Martinez? There hasn't been a meeting with you? You know the general economic policy, you know the picture of social and economic commitments and prioritys, and you know, Mr Martinez, the budget that the head section has presented to you this week. You know the details of the budget table presented by the adviser himself. We look forward to your analysis and proposals. Last year, we only knew their analysis, and I encourage them to take a step further and move their proposals to the specific budget lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u17	Lehendakari, does it really have nothing to do with this, as we said the other day, for example, the public bailout to La Naval in the budgets? Is it not necessary for a budget item, for example, to purchase the assets of a yard in liquidation? Does it have anything to do with taxation, which is collected through taxes on a government's revenues, to raise budget spending? Lehendakari, does it really have nothing to do with budgets, employment policies, housing or social inclusion policies? Or do changes in these policies have no impact on budgets? The problem is here. You've said in the last few years that with the left or any group, the right, that you agree with each other that you don't care if you play with the Podemos or the Poptular, what you mean is: you want to repeat the passed yearly scheme. And the spine of this schema is a separation of 30 or 35 million. A game saved by you And of course, if you close to agree on the basis of sharing 30 or 35 million, you close the door to agree with Elkarrekin Podemos. If you refuse to move, to change the policies of employment of housing, social inclusion, about the Naval or of equality between women and men, then you are imposing the extension. But in Elkarrekin Podemos, we have no fear of reaching agreements with you. Ez dankagu beldurrik zuekin akordioak egiteko. In reaching agreements as long as they are positive for citizens and for Euskadi. That is why, from the Basque left, we offer you a framework for negotiating budgets very similar to that which is being followed in Madrid with the government of Pedro Sánchez by Unido Podemos. This is our offer. To be here like our negotiation with the government of Pedro Sánchez, equal. Lehendakari, we heard it one more time. Great headlines and good words, which are not concrete at all. We are not going to mix the budget debate with self-government, as do the People's Party and Bildu. We offer you an agreement that will allow you to get the accounts out of hand, but that will involve a shift in your policies. If you want, let's talk about employment, let's talk about education, let's talk about health, let's talk about Naval. But then, we asked him for a social turn, a 180-degree turn. The ball is on your roof. Those who have to move are you, the government, because it is you who need a partner and the responsibility for a failure would be yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, I do not know whether you have listened to me in the previous speech in relation to La Naval. In any case, you do not seem to have heard what I have put to you in my speech, in the reply: proposals, proposals, Mr Martínez. All social games will have a higher allocation in 2019. The dilemma is clear: without budget the items are maintained and with budget the social items are increased. Also in his hand is allocating more resources – as already foreseen – to income guarantee income. We propose an increase of 2.25%. The same increase as public workers. It is also in your hand, Mr Martínez, to allocate, as planned, more resources to the supplementary provision of housing, social emergency aid, housing aid, equality, investment in education and health. Also open games with resources for housing for rent for young people, the Agenda 2030, Plan de Ayudas para las Familias, Plan Operativo contra la Brecha Salarial. It is also in its hand to improve, as planned, the working conditions of public workers with an allocation of 4% to ensure wage increases, contribute to Itzarri, consolidate the agreements reached in education and in the professional career of Osakidetza. Look, the economic growth framework and the evolution of the collection opens up a window of opportunity. The Government proposes to approve, for the first time, a budget of €7 billion for the priority of social spending. Euskadi, Mr Martínez, is one of the countries with the greatest social balance in Europe. This is confirmed by the European poverty risk rate and the Gini index, which measures inequality in income distribution. Euskadi invests, proportionally, more in social spending than the budget of any community co-governed by his party, Mr Martínez; more than the current budget in Spain that you have supported or will support, if any, in the negotiation with the Government of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party; more than the resulting proposals that you have put forward for these general budgets. The ball, Mr. Martinez, is on your roof, on your roof. The Basque Government is working to keep Euskadi one of the first countries in Europe in social equilibrium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Basque Socialists of the United States were made to control the social function of protected housing by the planeting Land and Housing Department." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u21	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. This Honetan, a Zoriontian albist, is a hartu dugu: aspalditik I hope genuinely the sentence of the Hartu dugu Hepaitegi Konstitutionalitik, eta gaur aprovetxatzea nahiko nuke pasatako legealdian Etxebizitzako Legean lan egin zuten legebiltzarkideei zorionak emateko. I believe that the ruling that we received from the Constitutional Court this week is good news, because it comes to tell us that we were right, that the parliamentary groups that promoted the Housing Act during the past parliamentary term, we were not only right, but beyond that, we were the basis of what is going to be a right that can be declared fundamental in the coming years and that, of course, puts us at the forefront of the development of new social rights in Basque society and in the sphere of the State. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, I believe that, in addition to congratulating us, you have, now, arduous work ahead in the normative development of this law on the basis of that ruling of the Constitutional Court. But logically beyond what it can be to congratulate us on this very significant fact and for having a law, which I believe puts us at the forefront of the realization of the social rights of this country, beyond the work that it has ahead, a law and the realization of a right also entail a number of obligations, and in many cases, in order to guarantee those rights and to ensure that the proper use of those rights falls on those who really need it – in this case in those people who have the greatest difficulty in accessing decent housing and in being able to start a life project when their situation is of inequality, disadvantage with regard to other citizens in this country – their department also has an important job in what comes to be control, strict control, so that the housing intended for those people who most need it has an appropriate use. Therefore, at this moment when this law, as I said at the beginning of my speech, begins to have an important development, an important future ahead, I would like to know what your department is doing, to ensure that the use of these social housing is the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u22	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, indeed, I share with you the satisfaction with the Constitutional Court's ruling on the Housing Act and, indeed, I confirm that we are not going to miss the job. And as to the reason for your question, I must say that all citizens' rights have a reverse in obligations. And so, the right to access housing, we established in the 2015 law, also has that reverse obligation. And that is why, from the administration, we have to strive to fulfil that right to citizenship, but we also have to be rigorous when it comes to verifying that such a right reaches the people who actually meet the requirements for access to it and, in addition, make appropriate use of the housing. According to this criterion, in this legislature our department decided, among other measures, to give a new impetus to the inspections of the official protective houses that have been developed since 2004. Thus, 9,502 out of the 75,000 homes that make up the official protection park, i.e. 12.6 per cent of that park, were inspected during the 17th. Of these verification visits, 4,095 were in Bizkaia; 2010, in Gipuzkoa, and 3,397 in Araba. And in what we have been doing this year, until 30 June, 7,277 inspections had already been carried out, of which 2,644 have been carried out in Bizkaia; 2,380 in Gipuzkoa; and 2,253 in Araba. So it is certain that at the end of this exercise we will exceed the number of inspections in 2017. In this year and a half, as a result of this inspection action and the verification of complaints, 270 sanctioning files have been opened, of which 108 have so far become sanctions. The most frequent reason to punish is the non-occupancy of protected housing, which, as you know, should be used as the principal and permanent residence of the successful tenderer. For this reason 45 dossiers have been closed with sanction. The following assumption is the prolonged and unjustified absence of officially protected housing, with 26 sanctioned cases; the unauthorized rental of the apartment, with 12 sanctioned cases, follows; and the rest are sanctions that have a different casuistic. The amount of all sanctions imposed during this period amounts to EUR 240,747, an average of EUR 2,888 per sanction. It is important to mention that the entry into force of the 2015 law, which highlights the social role of housing, and especially of the protected one, has considerably tightened the amount of sanctions: from 300 euros of fine to 3,000 in the case of light ones; between 3,001 and 20,000 if serious, and up to 300,000 euros in the case of very serious ones. For example, in the case of a file opened to an owner who rented his official protection home on a platform for tourist accommodation, a slight penalty of EUR 1,500 has been imposed for the permanent non-occupancy of the house and another one of a serious character of EUR 10,000 for the unauthorized rental, which has already been paid. Our intention is to maintain the intensity in the control of the use of housing stock and therefore, in the coming dates, the number of inspectors will increase from the current 8 to 10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u24	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Five point in theme list: "To ask the president, Alfonso Alonso Arnezinka, members of the Popula team, commitments between the Spanish government and the Basque Dreams." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Very good morning. I would also like to begin by greeting the workers of La Naval who come today to the plenary and to those who want to convey a message of encouragement; difficult circumstances, uncertain future. The other day you said, at your annual meeting to celebrate your party, that patience is running out for you, said Mr Ortuzar, your patience and the patience of your Government. And it is true, as Cervantes said: "Time is short, anxiety grows, hope diminishes." The PNV is running out of patience. The amazing thing is not that your idyll with Mr Pedro Sánchez lasted so little, because the summer loves are already known to be fleeting, to be diluted with the autumn rains, and it was to be expected, nor was it an idyll in which you were too convinced, but the amazing thing, for us, and what I think you need an explanation in this House and that you tell us, is what the nature of the commitments you have failed to fulfil. He says, "if they fail to make commitments." Hey, so what are the commitments that had been made? And I ask you, to tell us: What concrete commitments do you have with the government of Pedro Sánchez? What commitments have you made? When did you close those commitments? Are any commitments entered into prior to the vote on the motion of censure? Were they acquired later? Are these concrete commitments that you received? Or what word or promise did you receive when you went to visit Mr. Pedro Sánchez? Why does this House not know the concrete compromise? What is it that there are 30 transfers that Mr. Sánchez was already willing to carry on? Why does Mr Erkoreka say that everything is going very well and in his party they say that everything is fatal? Finally, I think it is good that you explain to the House what specific commitments you have with that government, so that we all know what will be the success or not of the relationship you have opened with the Socialist Party in Madrid, beyond what we know of some commitments, which are those you had with Mr Rajoy and the People's Party, which the Socialist Party is also not able to carry forward. So, if you are so kind as to explain to us and clarify exactly what is the commitment that motivated the position of your party's parliamentary group in Madrid, which also motivates the Government's action in relation to the Government of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, in order to try to unravel you in the plot in which you are or in the plot in which you permanently intend this House with the confusion of party and government, I think it is appropriate to remember that – if I am not mistaken – we are talking mainly about the commitments agreed by the People's Party government – of the People's Party, I am not mistaken – with the Nationalist Group in Congress in the processing of the General Budgets and which the Socialist Government has undertaken. I believe that the budget is being implemented. Look, the commitment demanded by the Basque Government – the government, the government and the government have not spoken about patience – the commitment demanded by the Basque Government, as well as this Parliament, that this Parliament is the full compliance with the Statute of Gernika, which you said on the day of the general policy debate was not breached. A commitment to Basque society that the present Government, like the previous ones of the People's Party or the Socialist Party, has been pending for 39 years. This Parliament has asked the Spanish Government for a plan and timetable for the implementation of the outstanding transfers and was approved, Mr Alonso, by the way, without your party's favourable vote. Look, I believe that with political will this commitment can be fulfilled, I am convinced, and in fact the last 16 transfers were agreed with the Government of Zapatero, in the years 2009, 2010, 2011, and I was president of the Basque Nationalist Party, who also negotiated, from the Basque Group in the Congress of Deputies, with the Government of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, and the result has been positive for both parties: the service to citizenship has been improved; nobody has lost anything. The key is political will, something that was not done with the Rajoy Government, which for seven long years did not approve a single transfer, not even at the request of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u29	You have not answered me, or what you want me to say is that your commitment to Pedro Sánchez is the one that Rajoy had signed, which comes to be quite remarkable, given the change in his policy of alliances in Madrid. The question is, if the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, has ever confirmed to you, he has assured you that he is willing to deal with those transfers, that he is going to make them, has set a deadline, has given you a timetable. What is the basis of your trust? What relationship do they maintain? Because, otherwise, how can we talk about unfulfilled commitments? Did you give Sanchez your word that you were going to do something like that? Does that condition your political relationship in Madrid? This is what I would like to know, because otherwise, and given the short time that you wish the legislature in Madrid, it does not seem that you have done very good business, rather it seems that you have done a rather mediocre business, that is, you have bet on a situation of political instability, of uncertainty. It's true that a boyfriend came to you this morning. Mr. Martinez wants to negotiate with you. I haven't seen you very receptive, but they seem to want to negotiate. He has already told you that the budget they made with the PP is very social and that how they won't like the Podemos. Well, anyway, I think with those new boyfriends, this fall you won't go very far. But you should clarify whether Mr Sánchez has committed himself exactly to something, because otherwise, you have remained in a situation where you do not have a majority in this House to advance your policies and, frankly, you have done very bad business with this change that has taken place in Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, I am the government's lehendakari. You've done a bad business, "you," "the vote," "you"... Hey, I'm the government lehendakari. Look, transfers with the Zero People's Party. Zero. And the government of Pedro Sánchez has made statements of goodwill, yes, but yet I also do not want to disregard the progress made with the government of Pedro Sánchez. First, you have maintained the investment commitments of the budget, and I remind you that your party, the People's Party, out of spite, Mr Alonso, tried to amend its own budgets in the Senate. Secondly, it has forwarded the initial proposal for the transfer of two railway lines and the A-1 section. Negotiation, pending. Thirdly, we have agreed to withdraw the recourse to the so-called Police Abuse Act adopted by this House and appealed by the People's Party Government. Fourthly, investments in the Bergara knot of the Basque "Y" have been boosted. You're saying we've made a bad deal by betting on a new government? Look, don't look guilty outside. The responsibility for the People's Party not being in government lies with the People's Party. He's from the People's Party. You're talking about recovering bridges to negotiate budgets. Look, our hand is also extended to you. The bridges are not built with vetoes and red lines, but by laying the pillars and approaching positions, until they reach a meeting. This was achieved last year and the previous year, and the previous year, and also this year is possible and I think it would be in the future. So if you intend to build bridges, Mr. Alonso, the gates of the government are open, as they have been for the past few years, and the budget next year would be positive for growth and employment. And for that purpose the work of all would be welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interregation of Maddalen Irina, the members of the House of the Collectors to the President, concerning the attacks endured by the Jamaican company." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u33	Mrs. President, members of the legislature, members of the government, good morning. Mr. Urkullu, good morning too. You see, there is no greater distance than your chair and my chair in the main street of the sandrabia, the beautiful, narrow street of the old side of town, which you will doubtless have seen on TV images, perhaps there, but not on the 8th of September. And you can't really pick up the size of the street and what happens in that street the last 20 years of September 8th. And this year, compared to the last years, it's much more violent. On one side, under the Town Hall, the people respectfully, the local authorities, the representatives of the people, the Supreme Director of the Election, the Arlia or his neighbour, ready to applaud the Jamaican company. And on the other side, shouts, colored plastics, cries, shrieks, bruises in particular speakers, insults, serious insults, the attitudes of making the press difficult, the supreme lack of respect, the extreme lack of respect with the edge and the police, and many people gathered there. Disordered respect, I dare say, Mr. Urkullu. A situation that doesn't give you a chance to speak normal, and a noise that doesn't give you the chance to listen to the Jamaican company or the whistle or the drums. Buzz and insult. It's been hard for all the past years to be on that street, but this year I'd say it broke all the lines and all the markings, and it's been unbearable. And when we passed the Japanese company, we saw people crying, we saw people shaking, we saw people not holding their whistles, women and men who make Jambelles, a great day of feasting, a great part of it. It must really be there to believe it, for I have said that you ought to be there to see it, because it is possible to believe it. What we suffered on Major Street in Hondarribia was an aggression and was organized, I repeat. Organized aggression against the fundamental right of women to participate in any aspect of life, on an equal footing with men. And this organized aggression has increased in intensity this year. And why? For because the attackers feel somehow unpunished; they know that the company Jaizkibel does not have the support of the main authorities of this country. Those who attack feel loaded and charged with reason, with the cover of a large institutional umbrella, that of the Municipality of Hondarribia, that of the Diputación de Gipuzkoa and, to a large extent, that of your Government, Mr Urkullu. And that umbrella is the one that fuels the confrontation, and there will be no solution until discrimination against women receives its public reprimand and the egalitarian boast receives the institutional support it owes it. I said that it was an organized aggression, but I also have to emphasise, azpimarratu behar dut minority iszan zeala. It is a minority concentrated on Main Street that acts premeditatedly and orderly, but outside that narrow street, in which there is no more distance than that which separates its seat from mine, the people of Hondarribia are more than ready to celebrate their holidays on an equal footing and did so in the other hours of September 8. The Hondarribitaras are prepared to enjoy the feast on equal terms, even if there is a minority who still want to teach the opposite. Let us not underestimate their aggression, but let us not magnify their representativeness and let us not continue to fuel their impunity. In any case, I do not think we should minimize the conflict. The wounds in the village are deep, the consequences of these attacks are prolonged throughout the year, especially among the youngest girls and boys involved in the egalitarian boast, and that is why we believe that this situation requires public intervention, it is not worth looking elsewhere and then regretting what happened. It is more and more difficult, in our opinion, to make them understand in 2018 how it is not possible to make them all to a party, as every one pleases, but without distinction and equality. Twenty people started doing this party twenty- 21 years ago, which was more than 700 that we've been able to see this year. And the noise and the black plastics hide the idea that it is spreading more and more among the people that a quick solution is required. That the peer Alarde has nothing to hinder, that he does not break traditions, that he only makes a rich feast, that this feast may be shared, but that it may be shared by equality. At the beginning of the preceding law, there was a step in front of the Renaissance and the Ardecla, but again this year we saw a sharp backward step. There is a conflict and this conflict affects the equality of genera and the exercise of basic rights. And black plastics can't attack that basic right. This is not a subject between majority or minority, this is a matter of choice, and rights must be respected. Does the Japanese company build, build equality, and change the party, or go to offices in red hats the next day, or to the schools, or to the factory on the previous day with red hats? Everyone dresses at the party and the genus under the red hat is of no importance to celebrate during the party. but that is not the case. Some must respect the partner of the party; it is not a question of partnership, it is a matter of respect, because a fundamental right is broken. And that's the only way to get a solution. It's not a question of choice, you can't choose to discard women, some of them want to free themselves, others want to break their freedom. And institutions have to protect equality, they have to guarantee equality, and today they have to make sure of equality. Izan Landalida End Office Directors I am going to tell you, after the 8th of this year's September, that your pain in the face had been detected in the face after what I saw there, she repeated it over and over again, and with great reason repeats, that violence, violence, extreme inequality, persecution, and extreme circumstances can only be answered from equality. And I completely agree. But what is equality? It is equality to receive the same wages for the same work, to share the care, or the amount of opportunity to learn. And it's equality to have leisure and the difference in the party. And the institutions must protect, strengthen, and encourage equality, as it does not happen in Irun, and as it does not happen in the sand. This year, in the plune of general politics, I said that what we saw in the street on March 8 wasn't just a march, we can't leave it. And when we say that it was an historic day, and when we say that it was a point of infulxio, we all care for it now, that it is our duty to fill up this point and to fill it in all its historical days, and keep it in every field without examining and omitting the care of each one of the institutions. It is not worth while to respect one another by opposite views, what has been said in the gymicia. I exist: one side must respect the other to celebrate the festival with equality. It's equality to welcome Mayors and corporations from the Survival and stand up against the Jamaican company so they don't get black plastic so that there's no shouting and everyone's having a party. This government has said that the light of his attitude towards his partner is absolutely uncertain and firm. Yes, but in addition to his manner, Mr. Urkullu, and I'd like to know by the interpelration of today: The exact size of the Eukozoa on September 8th, that what we saw this year may not happen again, and that we should not all be ashamed of what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irrie, first of all, let me tell you what's been done up to now. One. I'm sorry to hear from you. He reported the riots, attacks and insults that happened this year in the Residents of Fuserribia. That's what I did last month at the whole meeting. Two. My main representative is Rollback, he participates every year in the institutional reception of the Jamaican company. Three. 'Essupon Christmas takes a year's rent every year in the sand, by the edge, and, every edition, the police organisation is carefully adjusted, looking at these two ends: one to maintain security, and to prevent greater disturbances; and another to encourage co-operation and equality. Four. In 2013, he was excited to find an interview with both sides. The work that had been done did not succeed in fulfilling the whole thing, but it helped to calm down the atmosphere then. Five. In 2014, the President made a special sociological inquiry about the activities of the inhabitants of the sandrea around the altar, and this report presented itself in June. Six. During the preceding law, during the process of public law or municipal law, your party was in the power of the Gipuz Indundous Foru of the Gipuese, and in every assembly of organizations created by the application of that institution, the EukMal MUGHE took part in it. Maybe you don't think it's enough for you. However, the rating of what we did in any department must always be a reference to comparing or contradicting it, as you mention the opposite of what we're doing just now. Look, Mrs. Irriart, can you explain what, if you like, was the four years when you were in charge of this four years of balance organization around the Gipurea Fordardae, or, in the same case, when you were in command at the City of Wasteribil? That would give us a piece of reference so that we could improve the bond that was made on the Basque Mjok. Mrs Iriarte, I reiterate today my rejection, and that of the Basque Government, of the disrespectful attitudes shown by one side – as you have said – of citizenship in front of the parade of the Jaizkibel company this year. My conviction is that these attitudes, the screams and insults that the company received, are not shared by the majority of the citizens, and especially the citizens of Hondarribia, tired of moving this image around the boast. I would like, therefore, first of all to show my support for the people who are members of the company and to remind you that the support of this government on equal terms, through the presence of the Directorate of Emakunde in it, is constant and unequivocal. It would seem essential to take a minimum of time to examine the course of the conflict in the Alarda of sand. In the first place, it is proper to confess that we are in the presence of a discussion of great complexity, and that it cannot be solved by the doses of simple thoughts. The conflict of the almond tree in the sand is displayed on both sides: the aspect of equality, on the one hand, and of co-existence. Every field has a social protection, in different proportions, in the sand and out of it. This is not merely a question of equality, nor a mere question of association, as you have mentioned. The way to find a solution has a necessary condition: based on a distension, dialog and agreement process. It's very difficult, but reality is an inevitable principle. As long as this agreement is not obtained, it is necessary to guarantee a few minors. Just a few minimum of respect and pluralism. There are at least rules of gambling that must be respected. That is why the dynamics of black plastics and insults are not acceptable. It is clear that, over the years, Mrs Iriarte, there has been a rise in the level of public awareness and awareness of equality in general. This positive development has also led to a high level of demand for public institutions' policies in this area. A level of demand and a citizen demand to which we must be able to respond. You ask me what we're ready to do. Our intention is to continue to cultivate three furrows, connected with three ends; security, equality and co-operation. We intend to keep our hands on these three furrows by means of the Security Department to ensure security, to avoid any greater disturbance, to encourage co-operation and equality. We'll continue with the results. We'll keep going for equality and a couple ofrds. It is necessary to continue exploring ways of dialogue in order to take firm steps towards respect, equality between women and men and coexistence. I sincerely believe that the solution to this conflict that has been going on for more than 20 years – as you have recalled – it will come from the hand of constructive and sincere dialogue, as a first step to enable ways of understanding. Citizenship calls for public institutions to take an active role in finding solutions, and from the Basque Government we are trying to do so, but we need a constructive attitude on the part, above all, of the institutions, agents and citizens of the affected locality itself – in this case, we are talking about Hondarribia. I say this because many other localities in our country have taken this step and have started with a reflection and initiative within the municipality itself and counting on the involvement of the citizenry have been able to enrich their traditions, guaranteeing equal participation in various festive events, in commemorations or in celebrations. I also believe that traditions are a key element of the social cohesion of our peoples, but they were born in specific contexts and their adaptation to the new times does not mean going against tradition. I think so. From us, then, Mrs. Irriart, we will continue to encourage the means to obtain an interview for a solution. In the following few weeks we propose to open a period of reflection, which ought to arise from the country itself, to unite all parties, including the institutions. We all aim to think of a solution, co-existence, equality, and future. We've often said that we're willing to encourage a conversation of solution from the Eukong and that honesty is still working. It is necessary not to refuse that choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u37	Mr. Urkullu, I won't argue at all because I think he did what he did and I won't deny it. And I'm not going to argue what the Basque People did when they were in charge. What was done was done, and I think we'd all do it with the best will. And besides, this subject of equality seems to me so important and so serious, that I wish to make a solution in all the ways of women. For, until now, as you have told me, what you've done and done in other ways by the election, they're clear of something through the EH Collectation: at least for the moment, we haven't got a solution or a solution for the time being, at least, that we haven't succeeded in solving that problem. I, at any rate, insist on the underlying equality, because there is a conflict, but because in this conflict some people are breaking their rights. I think that's the starting-point, and that must be the starting-point on purpose. No doubt, by dialogue, because they are the best way to resolve any conflict. But this must be the starting-point, because I think they are given a choice, and that other discourse is protected by the fact that it is possible to celebrate it in two different ways, or when several other such things are said to be. The feast may be celebrated either in two ways or in 18 ways, it is all one to me, but it can only be celebrated by equality. And I insist upon it, and I wish to remark, that it is not the question of the people in the sand, but that it is an attack which a minority organizes, and that this must be observed, and that the responsibility of the attacks is the responsibility of public institutions. You said you could start a table. I'll tell you again, in that street where your seats and my seats are wider than my seats, which can't be settled at the moment. Things that can't be solved right now, so things don't get worse. I repeat one thing which seems important to me: The Japanese company builds equality and it needs to be underlined. It does not break anything, it is sometimes violated by others. And I think they ought to be told clearly by conversation, but it must be very clear that this right, this fundamental right, is breaking. I don't know what the tradition is, in the names of tradition or in the name of tradition, because, according to tradition, a few years ago, there were only men here and we're more women than half now. And so many other things. So what is tradition I don't know very well, but I think we have a serious problem, we women have a serious problem. This year, I don't want to forget, six women have been murdered in the Basque Country. There are certain facts which seem very significant to me from the institutions of the United Nations, and it is about us that one of the three women will have a violent persecution through their lives, a sexual persecution, in some cases, and another kind of persecution. And we are our mothers, our daughters, our sisters, our sisters, and our grandmothers-we are half the population. And in order to give an answer to the half of the population, we must make it equal, because the principle of equality is to cause certain systems and certain structures to be broken down. This is why I think it is important and indispensable to make a remark on this subject, from the dialogue, but it is plain that the starting-point is the starting-point. If not, it seems to me that that this miniature has been in the sand for the past 20 years, and especially the one who has done it this year in a shameless and shameful way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank you for the confession of what you have done. And before everything, and even if it's uncertain, I'd like to explain it to you, in order to clear things up, to avoid riots, attacks, or attempts to prevent violence, every year, and there it is. It's not the edge that doesn't concern conflicts, it's his main goal to guarantee security and hinder more damage, and it always does. You plan the solution, and, in truth, I don't quite understand, or I don't quite understand the solution that you would suggest in the end. I believe, however, that there is no inconsistant way to solve this conflict, there is no way to solve it that we will not find a solution by lighting up the fire, and therefore I believe that disinttension and conversation must be required, and that we must all be friends with it, and that is the only strategy I think. Let's not make a symplistic reading of a complex reality. We're going to have to propose a new strategy with a construction position to the root, yes, to find a free solution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u40	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear that doing similar things will produce the same results, so we must invent new strategies. The sociological research we did in the sandbi in 2014 offers interesting consequences. I'll remember some of the facts that we took out then. 68% of the pollinations admitted that this annual discussion had a negative influence on the survival conditions of the sandribians; that the majority, 42%, preferred the only traditional alarde; 24% maintained only mixed aidee; That's 2014, we're in 2018. Even when they looked at the future, the wishes of the sand were apparent: 72% believes that it is more important to find new solutions to overcome the modern pattern than one pattern or the other to prevent it. That's the generality of the sandals. We have to accept the reality which all this data shows, and we have to handle it with severity and responsibility. It may seem to be inconsistent attitudes, but it is real. It is with society, political parties, and institutions to seek a syndicate constructor before this reality. The Eusko MUKM has asked all social and political sensibilities to be able to find opportunities to improve their co-operation in the aideal celebration, and we'll do it and we'll continue to do it quietly again. As I have said in this House, the lasting solution will not come through imposition, but through dialogue and consensus between the parties involved. And I sincerely believe that it is the affected municipality itself that has to find a solution of coexistence, especially when all parties in the municipality share the idea that the solution has to start from their own bosom. And this is something we need to keep in mind. In this solution we must also involve all the institutions, and we will continue to participate in the inter-institutional commission led by the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation, in which we are present all the institutions concerned: Municipality of the locality of Hondarribia, Government, through Emakunde, and Ararteko. I believe that joint and institutional work is necessary, so that we can move forward in the search for a solution that normalizes coexistence, and I believe that this is the common desire that we all share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the High Court of Jone, which was made by the parliamentary members of the Union to the Chief of the Public and Autobernus, concerning the transfer of rights in the State of Guernica." Madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u43	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning to all. Nire galderak lotura zuzena donka, Erkoreka jauna, zuk emandako weretzun batekin. Irailaren 26an jaso nuen zure sontzuna, lamba baten ondorioz, eta esan zenidan argi eta garbi gauza bat: momentu honetan "there is no autonomous action, as the Constitutional Court points out, which allows the State to bind or force to convene the Joint Transfer Commission or to institute a ruling on the ownership of the powers". To tell you the truth, when I read this, to say it in a consistent way, fluffed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u44	Thank you, signor. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Ma'am, we're forming a thesis about the supposed dependence of fun in your book, and now you're making it up to a certain extent, but that's the result of a thought you've done yourself, not the inevitable consequence of my answer. I, in my answer, mention a jurisprudence, which you yourself know about the Court of the Constitution, and I don't say anywhere that she agrees with it, or that she is satisfied with it. That's the way it is, that's what it is. This legislature itself, two times this year, on the 12th of April and June 28th of June, has decided to ask the central Government to prepare a calendar for transfers within six months. And he's done that because he knows he doesn't have that stock in front of the Constitution Court. Hence nobody says, I say not, that this legislature either acknowledges or admits of subjection to its central government. No, it's all frame and it's doing what's politically possible. I don't know, really, what you're talking about is the best example of a neutral conversation, I don't know. In your question, however, you say that the President speaks of impartiality, and that this proclamation of favor can be combined with such an arrangement, but when the President does so, he does more of it than of a present state of intelligence. It is what he basically says: "If there has been difference in the economic area today, the economic concept means, and, to the future, it would be good to extend it to the political area as far as the economic concept is concerned, so that we can make political concepts." So there is no contrariety.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u46	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u47	I'm not telling you that you've accepted your submission, and I'm telling you what you're going to do when you tell me you don't agree with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, it's very legitimate that you don't, but the problem is that you're doing it and that you're being polite and that you're telling me that you can't do anything in your answer because you don't need to be able to do anything. You're talking about the decisions you've made here. Yes, we've made a lot of decisions, but the problem is, they don't fit and they don't fit because you don't or because we don't have enough talent to force the other person to sit around a table. Eta entzuten disudaneanexaten: "No, no, it's just that we're talking." Well, I wonder, and when we're talking, talking what it is, we're talking on the phone and then the dialogue seems enough, because we call and they pick up our phone? We'll have to do more than talk on the phone. I think there's a problem here. And the problem doesn't have to do so much with who is in the government and who is in every moment, because it seems that the PP, the Socialist Party, whatever happens, the same continues to happen, because the problem that exists – I believe, and so I say – is structural. The Spanish Government, whoever it is, has no intention at the moment of sitting down to give up something of its power, which is what we are talking about when we are talking about transfers, and that is in the nature of all the governments, who, as they come to be, are embroiled in these attitudes and in that way of being, and they continue to do the same, even if they then say other things and even if they agree with the Government, that one of their priorities is to get all the transfers. When I hear such things, I tie them up with the last expression, and I know, Mr. Erkoa, as you call songs, you have "el corazón Partado." Yes, you're there on the Party Day, and you're very happy to hear what Orcian says, but then you come out to calm things down. And now you come out here and tell me something, when you know you have no answer to tell me what's really going on around it. And what's going on is that they take the phone, but they don't really sit around to talk about it, pick up those street drivers, and really give us a step around the transfer. And that's the problem and that's what's in force right now, that's a way of dependence, and that's what we're saying, we have to break up with it. And the question is: How are you going to break up with that?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Highland, you've run out of time. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Ma'am, I didn't say there was no problem. In fact, if you hear my first appearance, you will see that this time at the committee, it is the first question I remarked there, of the lack of self-requestion. And if there is anything to be done about need, I said, so much of it, there must be a guarantee, because there is no guarantee nowadays. That's where you get it, the only trouble is when you're having fun. And I have told you that even this congressman has acted with equal criteria this year, through the two-fold decisions he's made. And you say, "What will the sheriff do? "I don't know. And I say to you: and what will the parliament do? Because the problem is the same in both cases, in both cases. Anyway, I'll tell you something else. I understand and share your concern, but in order to conduct this legal problem, there have been enterprises in the Main Courts. A few years ago, for instance, an enterprise proposed in the Senate itself, which required the change of the Organic Law of the Constitution in order to establish the action which has not been present. There were four senators on the left flank, and none of them had protected it. Then come here to ask for reasons for the government, it's all right, but when there's a chance today, so that we can get tools that the order doesn't yet offer, because the left patriot doesn't agree, it doesn't imply that. And, of course, I don't know how far that's really responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Eight points on the theme list: "To ask the question, Eva Lopez de Lariyabe de Matuna, the parliamentary members of the EH gathered together, the governor and chief physician of the Autobernus, about the Minada trial of Cartara." Ms. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u51	Yes, good morning, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Karra, again in the parliament. The Biscaia Listener has just decided that the Minba of the Karrada has the guilty and condemned those who organized this project. They're going to have to go back to 2,250 euros with their new instincts, and they're going to have to go back to rehabilitation, to run corporations for two years. Will this government take effective steps to clarify once and for all what happened in Carranza and what consequences it had for the administration and, of course, for society? Will this government continue to pray that the sentences will be favorable and thus avoid moving the record, also avoiding disturbing certain people and also disturbing certain former senior PNV officials? The fact that he's guilty in his conviction makes it easy to claim a criminal responsibility, you know that. So, I'm asking what's going to happen to the sad calling of "Muddy"? In a word, would you like to continue to protect what happened in the race? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u52	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Lopez de Toroyabe, I must begin my intervention of your question. In fact, you're asking me if he intends to continue protecting the management of M.M.M.M.A.'s office, and it's absolutely impossible to keep doing what hasn't been done since then, because this Euskalion, at least, hasn't done a bit of data to protect the management he's been there. The Basque Government has initiated, I have already told you this in an initiative that you raised last year, recovery files worth EUR 3.2 million against the company in order to recover the subsidies granted in its day and not justified or returned. And he has also appeared in the competition proceedings, in the relevant commercial jurisdiction, claiming all the amounts owed that are unwarranted, right? Does it seem to you that this is an attitude that can be interpreted as supporting or supporting management when there is a claim in a competition procedure of no less than EUR 3.2 million? It would be a very unique way to protect and support management. You are speaking to me, in effect, of the judgment recently handed down by the Bizkaia Provincial Court, which you apparently share, but last year, you will remember, we were also talking about the judgment handed down at the first instance, and you put the sentence to me as "suckle domine." And since the procedure has not yet been completed and there is a third instance, namely what in one or two years' time, if the third instance is activated, can tell me in relation to the judgment hypothetically handed down by the Supreme Court in this matter. What I'm saying again is now exactly what I said last year, the same thing. And I'm sure that what I'm going to tell you too, in the hypothetical assumption that I'm going to be questioned also when the final sentence is handed down, and it is, and I read from the session log: "I'm not going to value the sentence, I'm not going to praise it, I'm not going to applaud it, I'm not going to criticize it." That, as at the time, and as in the future, the Government will continue to be involved in this competition procedure in defence of the subsidies granted in its day and neither justified nor returned, until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Ms. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u55	Yes, good morning again. I respect court decisions. I don't share them, I don't have to stop sharing them. You told us in March, after the previous sentence, that we were facing a new scenario, and, indeed, you were then right: today we are facing another scenario. That's a lot worse, and it's getting a little worse. And we find ourselves with a sentence that amends the whole one – I think that no one doubts it. It was true that it was retrievable, and in fact it has been so. How many sentences, how many resources, how many cartridges have to be burned in this world, in this society for this government to move? What has to happen if this government is to defend the interests, the public money of the citizenry? Did the Administration in Carranza also create certain expectations that were ultimately not met, or did they simply sell smoke? Of course, it has been very expensive for the public arks. Did certain people with a lot of political power in the government even create and believe in certain projects that were ultimately not carried out? Is it so hard to say loud and clear that something went wrong? And that your government is passing the time, is waiting for this to happen and is waiting for this to stop smelling like purin. Euskal Herria Bildu comes as a group in a more than purposeful attitude, with a point of concern, that's true. Of course, we do not know the scope of the cases there have been, but we do know that tools are needed for democratic regeneration, to avoid cases such as Carranza's and to avoid other cases that reoccur. We proposed the creation of an office a few days ago, good practices and anti-corruption. We propose to remove hindrances to high office. Proposals and measures to ensure that cases like this cannot be given and, if given, to seek responsibilities, because it is our job, and it is the work of the Government as well. And as long as that happens in this House, the main protagonist of this entire film is disqualified to run companies for two years, but continues to sign contracts, greedy contracts in great works, and this time, for more inri, as representative of the company that builds the incinerator in Zubieta. Another great infrastructure that beyond doubt will bring us great moments. It's a shame to see Martín in the Ascicibar Bridge sign the crematorium project, even though the Cartara wasn't repaired. The crematorium on the bridges will be dangerous, not only because it's contagious, but because it's turned into a spinning door for many people. Be transparent – it's super simple, and humble, too – to prevent cases like Carranza's from happening again, so that suspicions don't fit in this House, or even in our country. Be proactive. We're just asking them that. They actively claim responsibility for the guilt in the case. Only in this way will the defence of the public interest, of public money, be guaranteed. That's why we're here. If not, they will be defending private interests, interests, even, it can be said that criminals, of certain people. At all these steps, too, they are called excellence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u56	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. López de Arroyabe, in this totum revolution What I can tell you is that the legal representation of the Government in this competition procedure is being as rigorous and as leading as it is in all the competition procedures in which the Government appears as a creditor. Exactly the same as the rigorous and the leader. I already explained to him last year what criteria guide this performance. In addition, during the years of the crisis, there are not very few competition procedures in which the Government participates. Between 2012 and 2015, more than 240 such proceedings, in which the Government acts as a creditor. Never, ever, in any case, in such proceedings has it acted apart from what it is entitled to do. And look, in this case, if you want an indicator to assess what the Government's approach and attitude has been, it is that, in the last performance, when you spoke of appealing the first resolution in the first instance, we acted exactly the same as the Prosecutor's Office, exactly the same as the Prosecutor's Office. I don't know if you consider that the prosecution is also cognizant in this case, I don't know. I don't know, because in that totum revolution What I can tell you is that the Government is still rigorous, is still diligent in the procedure and is present in the competition procedure, until the end, demanding those millions of euros that it owes it, and in the penal, indeed, it is still in person.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u58	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpodate, José Ramone Becerlo, members of the Podemos, members of Economics, Chief of the Instructions and Sub-Sections, about making La Naval Fleets public company." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. Mrs Tapia, the object of my question today is to know from your mouth what the Government intends to do to facilitate, support or encourage La Naval to become a publicly owned or publicly owned company. Our group understands that, in the liquidation phase in which we are going to enter now, public bailout is the only way out. And understand me the "public rescue" as the need, whatever, for public participation in La Naval. So we think the public rescue is the only way out, the other roads have failed, and time has run out, as Mr. Casanova said. If the administration doesn't take control, La Naval will close his doors once and for all. And when I say "Administrations," you must understand, both the Jaurs and the Spanish Government. I would like to see the position of your Government, which was maintained by the Basque Government in 2004. In October 2004, the Basque Government of Mr Ibarretxe of his party signed a joint statement with the company committee of La Naval, in which it stated, in point 3: "We consider that the guarantee of the maintenance of activity and employment in La Naval de Sestao, as well as in the auxiliary industry, necessarily passes through its maintenance in the State public group, since, otherwise, it would be subject to a bankruptcy process, condemned to its liquidation and, ultimately, to the cessation of its activity". Why do I like this government position? Because he got it right. He was right in his diagnosis: the privatization of La Naval has led him to the situation he is in right now. It was a correct diagnosis: of the four civil construction yards that privatized SEPI (Sevilla, Manises, Gijón and Sestao), only the Naval is now open. Moreover, all the agreements signed by the central government with the trade unions were not complied with, including the joint sale of these yards or the drawing up of an industrial plan. This diagnosis that was made in 2004 was correct, and yet we consider from our group that it is not what you have done in recent years. To this day you have only one official road map with La Naval. One, let the dragon end, and two, look for an investor – even the government delegate, Mr. Loza, has dared to make it appealing, a "serious investor," he said. And what we say in our group is that to finish the dragon the shipowner, Mr Van Oord, will demand guarantees, because no one finishes a ship in a shipyard that is in liquidation and has no address. He's going to demand guarantees, and those guarantees are an investor. But there is not going to be a "serious investor", as Mr Loza would say, there will never be a "serious investor" who arrives at a shipyard to which the country's institutions have turned their backs, they have turned their backs. Therefore, the only guarantee that can be given today is that those institutions that have so far turned their backs on it will change their attitude and their statements, because a year ago the lehendakari told us that companies like La Naval were accompanied by them, and we said, a year ago, that the only thing towards the lehendakari and the Government was to accompany them to the cliff. And that's what this government has done with La Naval in the past year, accompanying it to the precipice, and now it's on the precipice; as Mr. Casanova has said, "he has his watch in dark orange." There is therefore a need, from the point of view of our group, for a firm, determined and unequivocal institutional commitment. That's the only guarantee you'll be looking for a new investor and a shipowner with Mr. Van Oord. So that's the key, that's the only solution, that's the guarantee the gunmen and investors want: the engagement of institutions, a firm engagement, a bold engagement, an undoubted commitment. And we don't see that now in the government. We don't see commitments with La Naval, but we don't see the Sestak village with the South industrials or the future of Biscaia. The Naval, Mrs Tapia, is a viable company, is a viable shipyard. You know that. Between 2007 and 2013 he won almost 50 million euros. It has only begun to lose money when the mismanagement of its management team has influenced it. Moreover, even in this situation in which he is now, he has passed the due diligence audit Therefore, it is feasible, it is modern and, as Mr Casanova has also said, it has the technological level and the know-how to do enough to remain open and continue to function, and to remain the reference yard that this country needs. And I now take the opportunity to greet the company committee and the people who have come from La Naval, because today the only ones who are showing commitment to that continuation are they – of course, the government is not. They are the ones who are defending that even with one ship this shipyard can maintain between 1,500 and 2,000 jobs, and can maintain, above all, those jobs and, moreover, the auxiliary industry that it carries, because the naval sector is a strategic sector. It is a strategic sector and is being considered by other governments, other governments that are not the Basque Government. You have said this year – I would say more – that there are legal obstacles to public participation and that is not true, it is not true. For the liquidation phase in which we are engaged, for the liquidation phase there is no legal obstacle to public participation. In 2011, when Mr López's government also decided to take part in La Naval, the then Vice-President of the European Commission and responsible for Competition, Joaquín Almunia, said – and I will read it textually so that they can see it so clearly – that: "We do not establish in the Commission differences on the origin of the investment, whether public or private. That is, the Basque Government will be able to invest in La Naval if it does so under the same risk, price and remuneration conditions as any other private investor would." This is what you can do in the liquidation phase, go like any other company to do with the assets. But, in addition, the European Union itself, on its website, when talking about the ban on State aid, says that: "the participation of public administrations in companies will only be considered State aid when it succeeds in favouring certain companies or sectors which distort or threaten to distort competition". And this is not the case. At the liquidation stage there is no distortion, no threat to competition, simply a company, whether public or private, is made with the assets, in this case, of a shipyard in liquidation. And so the French Government has understood when it has nationalized – yes, nationalized – the shipyard of Saint-Nazaire. I have to say, for all of you to know, that this shipyard, which was owned by a Korean multinational, which went bankrupt in May 2017, involved 2,600 jobs and jobs for 500 subcontractors. The French Government decided to nationalize it. Mr Macron's French government – neoliberal – decided to nationalise him by paying 80 million euros. After deciding on this nationalisation, there were MEPs, some of them Spanish, who asked the European Competition Commissioner to see if that constituted state aid. And the European Competition Commissioner, Mrs Vestager, said in her appearance: "The rules of the Treaty on the neutrality of public or private property allow ownership and control, ultimately, by Italy or France by acquiring existing shares owned by STX Korea in liquidation – says the Competition Commissioner. In liquidation any company, whether public or private, can be made with the shares". But he says more: "Without it being examined – not even examined – in the light of state aid rules." In other words, a company in liquidation can be acquired without even being the subject of proceedings by the European Commission. And Mrs Vestager goes on to say: "Because the acquisition of existing shares held by a third party does not provide in a strict sense new resources from the State to the company". Therefore, once you disassembled that speech that you have had that you cannot participate publicly in La Naval, I am asking you now for a public commitment. I ask you to leave the trench of excuses, the barricade of conformism and to change here, today and now your attitude and tell us clearly whether or not you undertake to partially or totally rescue La Naval, alone or accompanied.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u60	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, chief of departments, good morning. And good day to the workers of La Naval. Well, Mr. Becerra, when a company is in trouble, at the creditors' competition, or, as it is in this case, at the settlement, I think we ought to be very clear about things and not use them against anyone, because things are very serious, and the whole story must be seriously told. You were telling me that the government has turned its back. Well, the situation in La Naval not only worries us, but it has occupied us, occupied us, occupied previous governments and occupied the current one, but not only to look at it. It has taken us a lot of time, a lot of effort, to try to avoid getting to the competition and, from the time he entered the competition, to try to save each and every one of the obstacles that have arisen. So, "turn your back," I don't think anyone can say it. We'll be, then, clear with things and how we count them. We recognize that liquidation, the closure of a company, is a traumatic situation and, in this case, traumatic situation for each and every worker and his or her family, but that should not lead us to distort reality and, much less, to make public statements that make no sense. The crisis has hit very hard. That's true. And you, at the time of presenting this inquiry, were talking about deindustrialization. Let's get things straight. The crisis has hit very hard and it is true that many jobs have been lost and industrial GDP has been lost. However, it is now recovering. There is no de-industrialisation, on the contrary: the industrial output rate is rising and industrialization is rising. Then let's be clear. There is an area, it is true, in Ezkerraldea that is in difficulty, and you know perfectly well that, as a result of action by this Parliament, we are working outlaws, municipalities, the Basque Government, both in Ezkerraldea and in the Oarsoaldea area, with a shock plan and a long-term plan. You know that, and we are going to present it to this Parliament. Then, not forgotten, not deindustrialized. Let's be a little serious. It is not for this reason that the situation in La Naval is less heartbreaking at the moment and, of course, the situation in the shipbuilding sector in Euskadi is affected by the situation in La Naval, but we must bear in mind that it is coming from afar and, of course, since we entered this government – you will remember perfectly the previous legislature – we have been forced to work with the whole sector, to set up a working table, because we were in the midst of a crisis and, moreover, with the whole problem of the tax And that is why the sector has improved, diversified, worked internationally, improved its innovation. It is a sector that has improved accompanied as well, and you use the word "accompany" as you please, but the accompaniment also implies many things. With the Government and, above all, with the cluster, I believe that many steps have been taken in the positive direction. Now, we are going to focus on the case of La Naval and we are going to tell the whole story, Mr Becerra, everything, not just the last part, because it is appropriate to do so in order to clarify the situation. Firstly, it should be noted that in 1997 the Commission and the Council of the European Union approved restructuring aid for State shipyards amounting to EUR 1,380 million, provided that no other aid was granted for that purpose. Then, it is possible, it is true, that it is possible to give restructuring aid once, once, and it was given. As a result, in 2000, between 99 and 2000, SEPI again provided aid – not considered as aid by SEPI, because it was provided in the form of capital and loans – amounting to EUR 500 million, which the European Union considered to be "State aid". It was the second time, and therefore forced his recovery. And all this led to the decision to privatise only the civil shipyards. And that is where, in 2004, the government of the lehendakari Ibarretxe says, "We do not agree with this privatization", because only civilian shipyards are privatized and the military are maintained. We must bear in mind where we were going from and, of course, at that time he was right, because things did not go well. But, at the moment, we are subject to a new European directive, which you certainly know, the 2014/EC 249/01, of the European Commission, which says, textually, that: "Once such aid has been granted – that is to say, that of the year 97 – the newly created company which has emerged from the liquidation of the previous company or from the absorption of its assets – that is, CNN La Naval – cannot be susceptible to such aid". Then, restructuring aid, not that it is not possible, is possible, once it has already been received, and it has not been possible to use it at this time. Now, we are now in liquidation – as you said. Measures to support a company in a liquidation situation where there is an investor, always accompanied by an investor, and I will go to one of the concrete measures, in accordance with the principle of investment of a market economy. That is the rule allowed by the European directive. And it tells us that, in the first place, it facilitates the co-investment with one or more private investors, the co-version of an entity or several public entities, provided that it participates in a percentage equal to or less than that made by the private investor. Then, publishing is impossible, because "publishing" means having more than 50%. Now, public investment – and we're going to be clear and we're going to use the words well because if we don't get an information file and we don't want to, we're going to use them well – public investment is possible under market conditions and would lead us to investment in the form of input and, in addition, in the capacity to act. It's possible, and we're willing to do it, the lehendakari has said it, then I mean his words. But not only that is possible. Once there is a private investor and you can save that company, you can also apply the tax lease And besides, you said it, at the time Mr Lopez was lehendakari also tried. The Basque Council for Economic Promotion, where the Basque Government and the three outlaws were located, adopted an agreement to take a stake of 5 million euros; the private investor, the private shareholders of La Naval did not want it. Then, in addition to the fact that public institutions can do so under the conditions we can do so and make that decision, we need the private investor to want our support. Our commitment is, therefore, yes, but all these circumstances must be given. Let's clarify more aspects. You told me about other shipyards, other countries that have been able to do so. And besides the French case there are two others. There's the Croatian case and the Portuguese case, and I can talk to you about the three of them. In the Croatian case, it is in restructuring aid exactly the same as that given in the Spanish State in the year 97. It has not been possible to recover the guarantees, they were in the form of guarantees, EUR 97 million, and at the moment the yard is in liquidation and the State has not been able to recover its guarantees. In Portugal, the Portuguese Government has also decided to provide EUR 200 million in aid to the ENVC shipyard in Portugal and, at the moment, the European Union has demanded that this aid be repaid because it is considered State aid. In the French case we started from the situation that the government was already a shareholder, it was already a shareholder of about 30-35% of that yard. And it takes that participation to one of the shareholders that is in insolvency temporarily, temporarily, since it was negotiating with the investor Fincantieri, which was to be made, and in fact it has been done, with 51 % of the yard. Transitional, therefore, while such negotiations were taking place. In addition, the French state has now returned to minority participation, of around 37% I think I remember, where in addition, something that nobody talks about and is also important, the workers themselves are also participants in that company. And at the moment, by the way, the European Union is reviewing how that transitional aid was. Then we'll be careful with the words we use. No rescue, because it is not possible; public participation is, under market conditions, agreed on the basis of what the European Union allows us to do. Then we'll tell you everything and try to be as exquisite as possible in the way we use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u63	Mrs Tapia, sometimes being exquisite with words leads us to certain extremes. You don't like the word "publishing," nor do you like the word "rescue," but you do like the word "accompaniment." Which means nothing. "Accompanying" doesn't mean anything. You said, "It means a lot of things." A lot of things and nothing. Indeed, "accompaniment" means "co-investment", but that we have not heard from you. You when you've talked about "accompanying," so far, you've talked about "investor search." You told me on October 6, 2017, "There are investors. You don't see them either, but there are them." And where are they a year later? Where are the investors? We haven't seen them, neither I, nor anyone, nor the company committee, nor anyone. No one's seen them. So, I admit that maybe the terminological issue may be failing us. And I'm going to buy him "publishing, no"; let's call him "public participation." But you acknowledge here, in this rostrum, that public participation is possible, that it is possible at the liquidation stage, I said at first. In the liquidation phase it is possible. Well, if we already agree on that, what does not help is the statements that have been made during this year of the lehendakari, of Mr Erkoreka, his own, saying no, no and you cannot participate in the Naval. You can take part in the Naval. Under what conditions? Let's see. Indeed, the French Government participated, temporarily and temporarily, of course, but it did. It has participated, because there is no, I say again, no private investor that will go into a shipyard in liquidation to buy assets worth four euros, because today, what are the assets, if there is no industrial activity, are worth nothing, considering that all the institutions of the country, read deputy, that is lost, missing What I am asking you is: you, as part of the Administration – I also reminded you that the Basque Government is not the only one; I say again that there is the Government of Spain; we could also have a deputy – you take a commitment to public participation, and then we forget the terminology issue and we go to the fundamentals here, which is that we cannot leave a shipyard like La Naval, which... Indeed, of course, "the naval sector is improving", but it is that the Naval is not just any shipyard. Naval doesn't make fishing boats, it doesn't make trawlers. Naval makes state-of-the-art civil construction boats. And there aren't many shipyards in the world that do that. Losing the Naval isn't losing a shipyard, it's losing the shipyard. I think we have room to meet. Indeed, the French Government... Well, I was gonna say, "Rescued," "nationalized"... Minister Macron didn't like to talk about nationalization either, but that's what he did, nationalize, huh? He didn't like it because, of course, the question was not much for him, neoliberal as he was, but he put the money and stayed with 50% of the shares and a shareholder for 12 years. And, obviously, in the shareholdership, on the board of directors, right now, of STX France there are four members appointed by the private investor, two appointed by the French State, one appointed by a private French shipyard and one appointed by the employees. You're right. You are right: local companies have 3.26% of the shareholder and employees have 2.40 %. It's just that that's not disposable, it's not disposable that part of the auxiliary industry takes over from La Naval. What you can't do is leave in the hands of owners like the ones we've had, whom you haven't harmed your behavior either. Those who have led to the ruin of La Naval today, have been the private investors who have so far been. So I say to you, if you compromise public participation, we have room for a country agreement here on the Naval, but if you continue to say that it is not possible and that the European Union does not allow it, then we will not have it. I have not spoken at any time of endorsements, I have not spoken of capital injections or other innovation aid funds, which is what the European Commission told you at the time by letter. The European Commission told him: "We have been informed by information published in the press that capital injections, other innovation aid funds or companies located on the banks of the Nervion could be envisaged." No, we're asking you to buy it. a participation in the liquidation phase, which is possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u64	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u65	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, Mr.Becerra, you don't seem to listen to me, but you don't listen to the lehendakari either, because he already said it, not today, which he repeated, he said it on September 14, 2017. He said, "Once the company comes out of the crisis, we will appreciate our participation." And from there came that letter to which you refer, which, in a crisis situation, because it was already in competition, cannot be granted by an administration, which is what we have been reiterating over and over again, cannot grant to a company in crisis aid, neither research, nor endorsements, nor any other circumstance. That's why he asked us to explain. But I have told you, that in liquidation, once a private investor has entered, to which we can accompany up to 50% – and to accompany in this case is to share, and you yourself say of France, up to 50% – which is what I told you in my previous speech, up to 50%. At that time, another type of aid is also available, because a new company is being set up which is not in crisis and is therefore able to access any of the aid. Not so far, not so far. And that's the case, and it couldn't be done, and I explained why. Why we have not even been able to use restructuring aid. Because they've already given up once. Then let's focus on what we're saying. You say that it is impossible for a private investor to get between if the government does not participate. When the shipyards were privatized, which have reached the situation that has arrived, in all cases there was a private investor, in all. We're not going to value it, and you also tell me that I haven't shaved your behavior. Well, let's leave it there. You don't know everything we've worked with them. But we're in the circumstance that we are. And he tells me it's impossible for that to happen. That is possible, and there have been investors who have visited, and the company committee knows it, because they have seen them. Another thing is that no proposal has materialized. But at the time of liquidation, which is where we are, at the most critical, they can now appear, because the situation is now much clearer for them. Being La Naval a shipyard in which ships of a special characteristic can be built and built and are being built, I will also not allow you to say that the fishing vessels, the ships that at this time have been built, also for attention to the offshore platform, one, are not technological and are of second level. They are as technological as any of those that are being built in La Naval, they have a way of acting, the ones of fishing, that does not exist in the world. The freezer tuna vessels that are made in Euskadi are not used elsewhere in the world, are not done the same way, do not use the same technology, do not use sustainable forms of fishing such as those they do here. Then, please, each one has its own market, each one works in a different sector, in a different niche within the naval sector, all equally technological and well prepared. And please, let's be a little consistent in that situation. From here? The lehendakari has said it and I repeat it, we can act, we can accompany, and that word yes, because "to accompany" is to give subsidies as soon as possible, "to accompany" is to work with the financial part, with the bank, which has been essential to get here – in April we were talking with the company committee that we did not arrive because of the financial situation – "to accompany" is to do those other things and "to accompany" is many things. "Rescue," be careful. "Rescue", careful and words also lead us to a complicated situation facing Europe and we are going to be exquisite, because Europe is looking at us, and we are going to do everything we can do in the way we can do. And you were telling me who the members of that board of directors were at the moment in the French shipyard, of course, because it also says, where it says that "the public entity must participate with a percentage equal to or lower than that assumed by the private investor", it says that "The political rights of the public entity in the new company must be proportional to its participation in the share capital". That is, you will participate in the board of directors exactly as a private person does. Evidently. Then, that's not novel, that we do in any other company in which we also participate, which is not the first and is not going to be the last, I hope. Then we'll be careful. Our commitment exists, but, again, I insist on the conditions that can be made, when there is one or more private investors and whenever they want us. From there, forward, we will work to get that shipyard to remain a success as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interrection, M. del Carmen López de Ocariz lópez lópez, the lawmakers of the United States of Mount Muuninka Group, made for the development of Economics and the head physician of the Sub-gourents, as to the increase of the taxation of the diesel." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u67	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President, Madam Counsellor, Councillors, ladies and gentlemen. "The diesel has the days counted in Spain." The Spanish Government's Minister of Ecological Transition landed and premiered, stigmatizing diesel vehicles and sentencing an entire sector. Arguing that it is to avoid environmental impact and, above all, the polluting particles that we breathe in the cities derived from these engines. Calling, of course, on the effects that this can have on the health of citizens, a simple and thick argument, made in the spirit of alarming and confusing more than that of clarifying. Mr Sánchez, President of the Government, joined the statements of the Minister for Transitional Ecological Affairs in announcing that he could perhaps pass a 15% tax; the Minister of Industry followed him, saying that he is only a probe balloon, and the holder of the Treasury followed him, saying that he was working for a tax without a collection effort. As you can see, the festival of confusion. All this without a report or study that believes that this tax will improve emissions. Diesel doesn't pollute more than gasoline. Diesel is the most efficient fuel with lower CO emissions 2 , if we compare it to equivalent gasoline vehicles. What are problematic are vehicles over ten years old; new diesel vehicles have a 25% lower consumption and CO emissions 2 per km 15 % less than petrol vehicles. New diesel vehicles and petrol vehicles produce pollutant emissions at equivalent levels. If we talk about old vehicles, over 10 years old, as I told you, regardless of whether they are diesel or gasoline, CO emission levels 2 and nitrogen oxide and particles are much higher. Therefore, to reduce pollution levels, the solution is to remove these old and inefficient vehicles. Strong investment in R & D+i in the automotive sector has made it possible to put cleaner and more efficient vehicles on the market; new diesel vehicles emit 84% less nitrogen oxide emissions and 91% less particulates than 15 years ago. That is why, Commissioner, Mr Rajoy's Government, in the General Budgets of the Government of Spain, which you approved, your party – you would also be in favour, I suppose – approved a EUR 50 million allocation to encourage the exchange of these old vehicles for alternative energy vehicles. But what's going on? That – Mr Lehendakari did not know – the budget is not being fulfilled, that which you voted in favour, is not being fulfilled, and this item is not being used. And what do you do? Look for Cuenca, there they are, anchored on the map. As Mr Imaz said this week in a very interesting article, if we were able to renew the current car park, the problem of pollution in cities would be over, because pollution would be drastically reduced. This is the line, a program of renewal of the car park as an efficient solution to reduce emission levels and also that of greater social progression. Collectives with old diesel vehicles coincide, in most cases, with the lowest-income sectors, which today, thanks to Mr Sánchez's government and his verbal incontinence, are poorer. Your vehicle's worth nothing. Thinking of the renovation of the car park, as I told you, we have the budgets that you approved, budgets that make it possible to renew the old, very polluting vehicles, and to encourage the vehicle of sustainable alternative energies. This is the solution. And let us look at what, for example, the German Government has agreed this week: the renewal of old diesel cars by means of incentives. No taxes. Sustainable mobility is achieved by renewing old polluting vehicles; in no case by drowning and suffocating the Spaniards, the Basques, with more taxes. And, counselor, you have nothing to say to this whole situation? Not a word this whole time? The deputy general of Álava said he has asked for certainty, and I wonder, but if you must already know, to have certainty you have to choose a good travel companion. They had the PP, they had the budgets, they had Mr. Rajoy, they had the departure and they parked him, and they chose the worst travel companion. Their nationalist anxiety has been able and changed for everything: for inoperation, for irresponsibility, for disgovernment. You are responsible for this government that we have. To govern is not a mockery, to govern requires responsibility, and when there is no responsibility, when there is no state consciousness, uncertainty is generated, which was said by the deputy general of Álava who worries him, which slows down the economy and favors unemployment. You have chosen a president who is believed to rule is a pure theater; you were a key piece for this spurt that is growing every day Spain is the second European car manufacturer after Germany. Our industry revolves around the car. 224,000 direct jobs and almost 2 million would be jobs of automotive components at risk. In the Basque Country, Vitoria, with its Mercedes factory, is the most damaged. It affects 45,000 jobs in the automotive sector, accounts for 46% of sales abroad in Álava, accounts for 27.3% of Álava's GDP. And you, counselor, not a word. Neither is the lehendakari. None of your government, a word. Last year, it contributed 4.5% to Euskadi's gross domestic product; 14.2% of the exports from the Autonomous Community. The Mercedes plant is the largest factory in the Basque Country (5,600 workers), and given the current instability of the markets around diesel vehicles, the inopportune statements of the members of the government, sales have collapsed by 13% in the Basque Country, by 17% in the rest of Spain. This situation is having serious consequences on the Mercedes de Vitoria plant. They must know, but they have not been concerned or at least publicly have not expressed the slightest concern. To the announced suspension of activity in the months of October for five days is added the stop of five days between November and December. In addition, it plans to eliminate the night shift for one month, between 20 November and 20 December; 1,000 jobs, the third shift, are at risk. These stoppages are the result of the decrease in sales and the fall in the forecast for the manufacture of vehicles up to 147,000 (8,000 less than planned 15 days ago). We're talking about 8% in the fall of production. In this plant, 85% of the vehicles leaving the assembly lines are diesel. 15% is gasoline. There is a risk that this problem in Mercedes, due to the crisis, may cease to be something short-term to become structural. That's what the Mercedes Directorate says, yesterday it was in the press. Madam Councilwoman, if Spain has this sluggish government, with announcements that unbalance economic sectors as important as the car sector, it is thanks to you. Thanks to the PNV, which sees the weakness of the Spanish Government as an opportunity to draw political results, without thinking about the interests and needs of Basque citizens who see their jobs in danger. Thousands of citizens and you quiet, as if this problem were not yours. You are responsible for this situation and, Madam Counsellor, what do you intend to do to reverse this situation of uncertainty? Are you going to continue to support the Spanish government that is ruining us every day?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u68	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u69	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs López de Ocariz, there was a moment when I did not know whether I had retreated to my time in the Congress of Deputies or was in the Basque Parliament. Really. Because you tell me about what the government of Spain and minister do above, minister below. I get it. It is an intervention, I am sorry, from spite, and if you have left the State Government it has not been for the PNV, it has been for your own actions. Then maybe they'll have to do a little self-criticism. Just a little bit. Anyway, as I'm not going to go on with this line, if we're going to go on with the diesel issue, we're going to do a little serious analysis, and a little beyond the figures and data you've given, which are quite correct. First of all, I think we need to take into account where the car situation is actually going. Part, I would say, of two clear commitments, to which we can add a third. Two commitments: One, to reduce CO emissions 2 - No, no, no, Reducing CO emissions 2 is a commitment that was last acquired at COP21 in Paris, since CO 2 is not in itself polluting, but makes the greenhouse effect, well, if we emit too much CO 2 , it's increased. The commitment to reduce CO emissions is therefore assumed 2 , not only in automotive, but also in the whole industry and in all human activity. That's part of it. That leads to what? There must also be a series of actions with the diesel engine and with the petrol engine, and with all kinds of actions. Secondly, there is another commitment, which is to move to more energy-sustainable models and, therefore, there appears the electric vehicle and the necessary replacement of internal combustion vehicles by those of electric traction. There are countries that have assumed them with much more depth, with much more hobby – let me say – as they can be countries that we almost called the "third world" a few years ago, but a China, an India, at the moment, are making a very important bet for the electric vehicle with the aim also of reducing CO emissions. 2 - No, no, no, And a third compromise, which can lead to the current situation, is that in certain urban centres, which are growing, by the way, because megacities around the world are gaining importance, they are deciding that those most polluting vehicles cannot enter the cities. All this has caused the automotive sector to have changed substantially, substantially, but it is above all those three commitments. To this we have to add something that I think a German manufacturer who was – forgive me the expression too – cheating and telling lies about what he was doing with his diesel engines, has been quite skillful and has changed the focus of the traps he was doing, trying to, like the chipiron, throw a lot of ink and make the whole diesel be affected. And we went from the traps of a company to, in general, demonizing the diesel. And in that sense, I think we have to bear in mind, as you said, that all the research that has been carried out in diesel engines, yes, especially in them, but also in those of gasoline, in those of internal combustion, makes those engines that have started since 2014 are much more efficient, on the one hand, and, on the other, they pollute much less. In what way? Well, as you said, when we were talking about pollution, and I too have read Mr Josu Jon Imaz's article, and so I am going to use some data that he was saying, since his professional career and his personal career in training I think they can endorse the data, he said that when we are talking about pollution in cities we are talking about nitrogen oxide, NOx and we are talking about particles. And in diesel vehicles with diesel engines designed and developed from 2014, first, particles have been reduced by a ratio of 1 to 10 and, in terms of NOx emissions, it has been reduced to a sixth. They are competitive and emit, let's say, practically the same as one of gasoline. Then, demonizing a diesel over a gasoline, I think it's a somewhat strange situation, at least. That's about pollution. If we talk about greenhouse gases, we can also look at what happens between gasoline and diesel. We can say, and we all know, that at this time, being more efficient, we burn less diesel than gasoline per kilometre and, therefore, emissions are lower. Then I agree with you that, in fact, we do not have to demonize either diesel or petrol, but we have to work to renew the fleet of vehicles that are currently moving, not only through the cities, but on paths of longer journeys. We need to renew and try to make those plans new. We were also speaking in the committee, barely 15 days ago, when I was presenting the Government's Electricity Mobility Plan and Mr Otero, here, I was also thinking, which I think is very correct, moreover, that on many occasions we are talking about electrifying with the aim of reducing emissions and making the system much more sustainable, but we do not take into account where that electric traction comes from. Then it has to go together with the electric mix and we have to work in both directions. Then, there are areas where we have to work and we have a lot of work to do. Therefore, we have to modify the old vehicles, try to electrify the mobile park and, at the same time, that the energy mix from which we are currently feeding is also being modified towards more sustainable energies. Moreover, we are seeing our automotive sector affected, it is true, but I am not going to do it is to generate more uncertainty than it already exists and, above all, we are going to be aware that all these actions that are being carried out that come, said and I repeat, that someone who set a trap has tried to demonise the whole diesel, are not just all these declarations located in the Spanish State, they are throughout Europe. They are all over Europe and there are many interests in other countries, which are developing other types of engines, in which, at the moment, Europe's car is also affected and reduced in its activity. We all need to work on where we are going, and this very week the European Commission has made a decision that we can further reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We had set ourselves a target of 30% – no doubt you have read it –; it has fallen to 40%. Does that mean the diesel is bad? Not in itself. We have set ourselves higher targets, and then we have to proceed with greater electrification and improvement of the sector. An improvement in the diesel sector and an improvement in the mobile fleet throughout Europe, throughout Europe, not only in the Spanish State but also in the Basque Country. We need to be aware of where we're moving from. And the automotive sector is getting ready. In Euskadi he is preparing and has been preparing for a long time. And you were referring to the only plant that we have of production of complete vehicles, which is Mercedes, in this case, and Mercedes, precisely, has been preparing for time from the point of view of modernization of the plant, of digitization and of production of first level electric vehicles. Well, let's try to give confidence, among all, by not demonizing a technology like the new diesel, and making that energy transition and that search for less CO2 emissions and less pollution, using everything in our hands. Just as we say that renewable energy cannot move from the energy mix that we now have to have everything renewable and we have to make a transition, because we also have to make a transition in the vehicles that we are using, being as efficient as possible and trying to emit as little as possible. But I insist, throughout the European Union and throughout the world. COP21 talked about global commitments, not just Spanish commitments and not just Euskadi. Then, we will be aware of what the problem as a whole is and try to identify where the difficulties are and what the solutions can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u71	Madam Counsellor, yes, it is you who are responsible for the government we have. That's an objective fact, neither contempt nor nothing. Reality. Votes add up to Congress, and your votes are decisive, therefore, co-responsible. That there's a transition situation for the engines? Yeah. All over the world? Yeah. But here – and that's not what I say, the whole car industry says, everything – who has raised the dust is when you name a tax on a particular car model. And that has slowed down dry sales, because in that transition we were carrying there was a small drop of 3% or 4%, and now we're in the 20. And that has been the words of this irresponsible government that you are co-responsible for, have co-responsibility, and that is so. And as long as they don't change it, it'll still be like this, counselor. So let's put the situation on its right terms. And from the People's Group we transferred our concern, concern for that faction, which mainly affects Vitoria, and which knows that there are 5,600 workers, and that it knows that there are 45,000 jobs in the automotive sector in Vitoria, which there is also something in Bizkaia and in Gipuzkoa (Ruby Stamps, etc.). But in Vitoria it's bloody, because when we talk about 45,000 workers, it's 45,000 families. And you come to talk here this morning, and I was perplexed, because look, yesterday the data from the Employment Projection Observatory 2015-2030 came out. And what does that observatory tell you? What do you say? The biggest amendment, he tells them, is that by 2030 the supply of employment in the Basque Country will be reduced by 12,000. In 12,000! And what sectors are going to be the most jobs going to lose? Well, look, the manufacturing industry, 14%. Hey, what was it this morning, science fiction, what were they telling us? Science fiction. You are amending yourselves, which your observatory tells you. It's not from outside, it's from here: the observatory. It is clear, Madam Counsellor, that the Spanish Government is sinking into the abyss and that this is only remedied by a change and you have in your hand to propitiate this change. And that the government must renounce this diesel tax, and it must also do so from the Prime Minister to the last, because everyone has spoken, and they must make it public to try to reverse the situation. And, counselor, this is not the happy Arcadia, however much Mr. lehendakari swallows his voice to tell us that this is going like a train. Well, no! As I have told you, the Employment Projection Observatory 2015-2030 has been amended. Don't fool us. We do not live thanks to the PNV, the Basque Country has not invented it. You have to tell the truth. Its management is improveable. We spend what is not written in innovation and the lehendakari himself acknowledged here that we do not innovate, that we are below the indices. And you know perfectly well the millions of euros we've devoted to this. And they also choose a government that ruins us. This government can also do things and take action – I say its government, its department – to try to curb this deterioration. But you haven't said a word all this time. Aren't you worried about Vitoria's jobs? Aren't you worried about the situation in the car sector in the Basque Country? Don't you worry? I'm surprised they didn't talk. I see them handed over to the Government of Spain. Really, it's like a religion, an adoration, we're going to protect them for a long time. Counselor, we have to work on the renovation of the housing park. Tell Mr Lehendakari that the budget is not being fulfilled, that there is an item of EUR 50 million and that it is not being implemented. Can't that be applied? Is there nothing you can do to make a renewal plan in the Spanish Government for the renewal of diesel vehicles? To improve and to stop this fall of the sector? You can do it. They're part, they're in charge of this situation. Do it! Do they demand that the Government comply with the departures, or do they not worry about the departures? What's troubling you, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u73	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. First of all, Mrs López de Ocariz, I would like to remind you, if you will, that the Basque Government does not sit in the Congress of Deputies or even in the Senate. Not yet. Maybe at some point we'll sit down, but not yet. And since you are so worried about how the budget is executed, why is it done in the Congress of Deputies, perhaps in the next elections, you will go on the lists and you will be able to go out and be there. It would be a good idea, because you are very concerned about what is there and how the budget is executed there and how it is done, what is not done, and what the ministers say, and what is not said by the ministers. Well, that'd be a good idea, maybe. You're talking about excise duty. It turns out that Mr Sánchez has said, that his ministers have said... but that there are excise duties in many cities, and you know it. In many European cities, excise duties have been imposed on the entry of polluting vehicles. And I think, as far as I know, Mr. Sánchez didn't rule in those cities. Now that you tell me that because a game that has to be run – I agree with you – to renew that mobile park, and I think that you who so much like to read the press and do interventions here, yesterday in the press came that there was precisely a renewed plan You tell me there are things that can be improved. Obviously, everything can be improved. The concept of "continuous improvement" was coined a long time ago, and we all make decisions and sometimes we get it right, and others don't. And our policies are improveable, of course. And as far as we can, we're doing it. Of course. It also tells me that the current data, the observatory... I talked about data this morning. Now, when Mrs. Artolazabal talks about employment data, she talks to past bull. That is, today he will talk about the September data; in September he was talking about the August data; and so on. It's real data. I'm not talking about an observatory. The observatory makes its analyses according to macro trends, and may or may not occur. I'm talking to you about what's going on today. IPI is growing, contracts are growing, industrial GDP is growing, employment is growing and social security membership is growing. That's a reality and you can't deny it to me. And I'm not talking about a happy Arcadia, and I'd like to grow as much as other countries that are growing to 7%. Of course, of course. That at the moment there seems to be a small slowdown and that instead of growing to 3% we will go to a 2, yes, that is true too. But you tell me what's going on and don't tell me I'm lying when the data is reliable. So let's be a little clear, as you were telling me. "I'm not worried," she says, "about Vitoria's jobs." I am concerned about the jobs of each and every one of the cities, of each and every one of the companies and their activity. And the automotive activity – that's why I was telling you – we're not going to generate more uncertainty than it exists. We will try to work so that all those measures that we can implement in the improvement of the automotive sector, which are already doing so, are a reality tomorrow. And as much as we are investing in innovation and not getting all the results we want, we have to continue investing in innovation, in technology, in non-technological innovation, in management improvements, in improvements in employee participation, in business diversification, in many actions, and we have to be persistent and persistent, because what we invest many millions in innovation today, does not mean that the results are going to be in the short term and because we do not have them in the short term, no. The commitment must be maintained and the government must increase the public share by 5% each year. Now, you who like to look at Madrid's budgets so much, let it also look at the part of innovation how much it is growing or decreasing, because, also, public investment is not only from the Basque Government, it is from other institutions and we all have to persevere so that the automotive sector, is not that it has today future, but that within 10 years it is also perfectly organized to continue in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: The question is, "M. del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Munez de Muntain, the lawmakers of the Populative Groups of Economics and the chief physician of the Sub-Succatinations, the train of Eukadin (AHT). Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u75	On 19 July 2018, she stated, Madam Counsellor, that the Basque Government sees absolute will and open attitude in the Minister of Development to carry out and undertake the technical work necessary for the new transfers to Euskadi (ports, airports, railways...) and that, with regard to the high-speed train, the Minister was referring to the end of autumn to give some answers. On 24 September, in this House, Madam Councillor, you acknowledged that the change in the central government has led to a small stoppage. He then rectified, "paron" seemed very strong, and came to say no, that it is a delay of two or three months and that it is not an important period of time, and that this does not mean that the project is stalled and that there is no stop. He said that we were waiting for the minister to visit us. Counselor, when does the delay end and when does the stop start? We have already exceeded the three months that you set as the limit and what situation are we in? How do you rate this situation, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u77	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, I want to start by pointing out that precisely the work of the Basque Y and Basque That is, if we refer to the year 94, when the Essen Summit and where the Basque Y takes place Commissioner Bulc has recently said that this corridor remains a priority, that the Basque Y To this day there are some delays in the change of government, it is true. You call it "delay," you call it "stop." It's true, in a change of government that always happens. But of course being priority as the work is, at the moment it has been managed to unlock the knot of Bergara and is producing, at the moment, the bidding of the work at the entrance of the city of Donostia. We are left with Vitoria and Bilbao, which are the two where there has been a delay, but not only by the entry of Mr Sánchez's Government, because since we in Bilbao, for example, presented the solution, since 8 March had to have gone to informational study, Mr Rajoy's Government left in June, between March and June could also have gone to informational study that work. There is a delay of those months for the change of government, in the entrance of the cities and in the variant of Astigarraga towards Irun. The informational studies had to be by the end of 2018 and they are not, but not just by Mr Sánchez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u79	Counselor, tell me everything. You knew that there was a meeting on 2 June and that in July you were also going to do the informative study, so, counselor, tell it all. You put the transfers ahead of the infrastructure in the meeting with the minister, the cart ahead of the oxen. Mortgaged more than 500 million euros of investments for the Basque Country in the General State Budgets – would generate 7,000 jobs – in exchange for not knowing which transfer. More than 500 million euros that you have put in the hands of the Socialist Party so that one Sánchez, who does not believe in these accounts and who has not arrived in Moncloa to govern them, manages them. You'll have to explain this misconception to the Basques. They made a mistake knowingly, they chose octopus as their pet, and so we are, thread earrings. They opted for a weak government in Spain because from there they plan to get revenues for nationalism. You, who fill your mouth by saying that with the "government of the people", and you name a government without counting the citizens; listen, you, the "government of the people". For to be the people's government, they have ignored them, they have ignored us in this process. At the first change they have chosen party interest and have sold the interest of an infrastructure as important for the Basque Country as is the high speed train, postponed sine die The Bergara knot was advanced with the Rajoy government, you know that; infrastructure that many economic sectors and many citizens see and expect as an opportunity for economic growth, an opportunity for development and need it as soon as possible. And in the delay that you have announced to us, it is by no means the fault of the Government of Spain, whoever it was. That was your problem, yours, and we're not going in because it was your problem, this Autonomous Community, okay? You know that a strong government in Spain makes the Basque country strong, but you don't like it, you feel small. A weak government in Spain impoverishes and weakens the Basque Country, and here comes nationalism, to remind us that we live thanks to them. Here you come, to save us. They don't care about this. Your nationalist desires are that they blind you, are stuttering, knocked out, have deceived you, you seem novices, all you think is that your patience has run out. They're out, Your Honor, shot in the ass. And they are responsible for this fiasco and their responsibility is to put in place means to solve it as soon as possible, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u81	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs López de Ocariz, I repeat: the Basque Government does not sit in Congress, those who sit in Congress are the parties, as you know, and, of course, their interventions, the previous one and this, of course, are pure contempt. I'm sorry for you, for being like this, but make him look at it, because it's you who caused your exit, no one else, you're the most responsible. Secondly, as it also confuses dates, the meeting was scheduled for Vitoria and was on 12 June, and no information study was yet to be adopted. I told him that Bilbao launched it on 8 March and from 8 March to June there was time to get the information study out. He didn't get out. But I'm not going to go into that detail, because if you want to talk about delays, I'm going back to before. The responsibility for this type of infrastructure is not the responsibility of regional governments, it is the Government of the State, and since the year 94, whoever was in Madrid, there was little or no interest in implementing this infrastructure. And if it was launched, it was thanks to the government – Vasco, in that case – put the tool of the Economic Concert to accelerate the work. And you know it perfectly well. Occasionally, I was a vice-counsel at the time, and I remember the words of a minister, who said that we were going to put that agreement in place over her dead body. It's not a corpse, ma'am, but it's a political corpse. And that infrastructure at the moment has an agreement whereby the Basque Government is carrying out part of the work and has accelerated as a result. And if we talk about delays, let's talk about everyone and not about the last moment. And really, let's take a look at that splinter you've got and relax a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Antonio Damborenea Basterchea Euspula Group members of Economic Economics and the head physician of the subordinates, La Naval. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, I will try to be exquisite in words so that they do not misinterpret us out there or in the rest of Europe. This morning we heard Lehendakari talk about creating more and better jobs. We all agree, but maybe we should start by keeping what we have, especially if it's good. And especially if we talk about industrial employment and if we talk about a sector such as the shipowner, La Naval, which for us is very important, but not for La Naval itself, because, as someone has said before, La Naval is a sector, it is not a shipyard, it is not a small shipyard that makes boats, however important those ships are and however clever those ships are. We're talking about a sector. We are not particularly concerned about the workers of La Naval, which we have already dealt with two years ago, to extend the 10 they had to return to Navantia. We did it because it seemed important to us that this company should not be decapitalized humanly, because if it had not been closed. That's not the problem. The problem we are facing is whether this sector is really a priority for this Government, and auxiliary companies around that sector are a priority. And we are talking about about about 2,000 jobs, which obviously have no relocation. I have listened to him carefully and the conclusion I have drawn is that you can intervene in any case, provided there is an investor. Therefore, we are no longer in competition, liquidation, etc., because this problem is that it is from before. It's just that over two years ago we all knew there was a problem, and he wasn't in a contest or a settlement. The last one that appears to have been found out was the Basque Government. Well, you tell us you have a solution whenever there's an investor. I will remind you that this government, this region of Europe, in this respect has the same powers as any national state in Europe. We have fiscal powers, we have expenditure competence, we have investment competence. We have them all, we don't need anyone else. We don't need anyone else. And the question we have asked you is whether this government is going to do anything to save those thousands of jobs, which would not really be about that, but whether this government is willing to drop a leading economic sector, as we have technologically in the Basque Country, curiously in a booming time in the shipping sector. I already know that we are not going to fix the problem of diesel in the world, nor the naval, in general, in the world, but yes, ours, in our companies, here – neither has it become clear to me whether I was in favour of going up the diesel or not – but I would like to know if the real government – apart from telling me that it is looking for an investor – intends to do something.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u84	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u85	Mr. Damborenea. I agree with you that the naval sector in Euskadi is important. We have bigger shipyards and smaller ones, all relevant, and with them we have worked in a situation in which none of them were in crisis, if we call the "crisis" "contest", which is what is called, let's say, in the concept of the European Union; but they were in crisis because of a situation in which the tax reads From there, La Naval, which is the largest shipyard and the one that makes different ships, enters into competition and at that time – let me reiterate my previous intervention – at that time it is not possible for us to intervene, because the only aid that could be given – and I repeat what I have commented to Mr Becerra – has already been given by the State in the year 97, the restructuring aid that can only be given once. Then, at that time, we were unable to intervene. Previously yes and – I also reiterate – Mr López's government – I think you supported it, then he will remember it just as I did – made the decision to participate with EUR 5 million and private investors did not want our participation. Then, previously it could not be; during the competition process it has not been possible; and now, in liquidation, if a private investor appears, now, not always, now it is possible. And I think I have reiterated this and said that we are willing, whenever that private investor appears, because that is when European legislation allows us to do so. The 2,000 jobs depend, in part, on La Naval, but they do not depend absolutely, because – let me say agrarian – the monoculture is not usually interesting and our company has already learned that it has to diversify into customers. Then they will be affected, it is true; the competitive situation in La Naval will affect them, it is true, but, not for that reason, they will disappear. And I think we have to work because those auxiliary companies provide actions to other shipyards, which are already doing so, and diversify into other sectors. And that is where we have to help them find that path so that, I insist, that monoculture does not lead us to a problematic situation, in this company or in any other, that we have also lived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u87	Counselor, I'm not going to make history. Tax lease You have the ability to articulate that investor, you have the funds of the Basque Government, you have the fiscal powers, you, the outlaws. Look at the tax powers. Tax lease
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u88	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Your time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u89	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Damborenea, today we are in the words. What does "articular investor" mean? If "articulating an investor" is, when it was necessary to privatize the Naval, seek that Ingeteam and Murueta put themselves there as private investors, well, probably the government did. What we have to do is look for it, attract it, get it to invest and share with them, both the state government and the Basque government, if private investors want it, because it seems like we could participate in any company. And we can have all the funds we want, but if the private investor, the private shareholder, doesn't want us, we can't get in. It's like I intend to go to your house for dinner, Mr. Damborenea. If you don't open the door for me, I won't be able to go. Then, we will be able to look for an investor or several private investors, who have a plan that will allow that company to replenish and make it viable, and we will share with those investors. That is the will of this Government, I know that it is the will of the Government of the State, through discussions we have had with the Minister and, therefore, that is the work that we have to do and I believe that we have reiterated it, both the Lehendakari and I, in our speeches today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, by Guanche Suáz together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to Eplegu and the head physician of the Society, about the profession and the production of the Basque Office." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u91	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chiefs of departments, good days to all. Last Tuesday we heard a resolution from the Basque Data Protection Agency on a complaint lodged against Lanbide regarding the document "Authorization to consult data in public files". This resolution clarifies that with that document you have left all the people who have been signing it in Lanbide these years in a situation of ignorance or defencelessness. That's why we want to ask you today, how do you apply data to files signed and signed records from the Basque Office in the U.S.A? From now on?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u93	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Mrs Guanche, this is not the first time that I have answered questions related to data protection in Lanbide from this rostrum. I have always moved you that from the department and from Lanbide we are working and we will work to ensure that users have guaranteed safe, responsible use in accordance with demanding regulations. The case you are commenting on continues to support this statement, because the resolution you mention of the Basque Data Protection Agency rejects the complaint as Lanbide acted correctly and in accordance with the legislation on the protection of personal data. This resolution confirms that there is a clear legal provision enabling Lanbide to carry out consultations or verifications of data without the need to seek prior consent of the applicant. There can therefore be no action in the files of persons who have signed these consents, nor violation of any right because they have done so, as it is contained in the law itself. In its letter dated 4 September, the Basque Data Protection Agency states: "It must be concluded that Lanbide enjoys legal protection for the processing of data described in the complaint, although it must amend the information clause contained in the Annex". And this is what we've done. This confirms that it is not necessary to have the consent of the person concerned as there is legal authorization, included in the Income Guarantee Income Income Law, to consult data in other administrations or in other public and private entities.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous, for your explanation. I am used to bringing the prepared items, but thank you for reading us part of the resolution. I do believe that the resolution makes an approach, in which the rights of people can be violated, to which you have not referred. But your will to direct the document makes us happy. And it surprises us a little, because at the last time your department won't listen to the unions, the socialists, the users, the workers, and the legal teams. You should reflect on the meaning of what you give to the word communication. Because, even if they are going to correct the document, it is weary to see how they want to move forward systematically with one roll ahead, and this is seen in the proposal for a revenue guarantee reform, in the Lanbide reform, reforms that have both stops. Stops because they do not manage to reach agreements with anyone, with social agents, with trade unions, with the civil servant, with the parties, or with the people to whom this should benefit. Stops because both pass over all those who are not like you as if the system or, rather, the country, were owned by you. We're talking about a complaint from the Basque Data Protection Agency, but it's not the only thing. Last year you had the dubious honor of being the worst in the class: more than 800 complaints in the Ararteko report alone in Lanbide. 800, of which only 13 % is in favour. The same will happen from now on with the Data Protection Agency, because – Mrs Artolazabal – in our opinion and, apparently, also with the two independent agencies that must control this government, you are making a selective use of the bureaucracy, which de facto hinders the exercise of rights. Selective because they are applying measures, criteria, paperwork, bureaucracy and requirements in a way that have not been seen in any other public service and that I doubt very much that we see. They are turning Lanbide into a service of some impunity for the administration and when they correct, they do not repair. Is this the way your department puts people in the center? In just one week two independent bodies recommend that Lanbide modify its practices by putting citizens in defence (the Basque Data Protection Agency and the Ararteko), by suspending a family of four generations of women with obvious difficulties in getting out of the spiral of social exclusion. In 2017, 800 complaints and many unanswered recommendations. What else are we going to have to do in this 2018? Let us know that we're ready. Only a thought to conclude. The principal duty of public institutions is this: to facilitate the use of their rights to the citizens, and not hinder the means. Don't forget, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u97	I, Mrs Guanche, am going to focus on the question you have asked me. He says there are over 800 complaints received by Ararteko. If we compare it with the more than 200,000 administrative acts Lanbide does, I think it's a low percentage. Nevertheless, we continue to work to reduce this and, in addition, to the recommendations that Ararteko makes to us, which are timely to incorporate them because our desire is continuous improvement. This Government, I believe, is acting in strict compliance with the law. People do not see their rights violated. What the agency has done is not a complaint, but a resolution before a complaint, and the fact that that complaint has been filed is a clear example of how things are doing well in Lanbide. In addition to complying with the regulations, we always seek excellence in the management we perform. And Mrs Guanche, look, the current Income Guarantee Income Income Law contains legal provisions that legitimize Lanbide to collect data and reports from other administrations and even from the person concerned. This is reflected in the law. I make it clear that this second consent, which is what we were talking about in the complaint made to us and which has been archived by the agency, was requested and launched by Lanbide as a result of the requirement that the National Institute of Statistics made at the time to carry out these statistical work. That it was the INE that demanded Lanbide to seek this second consent, and as a result of this complaint, what the Basque Agency for Data Protection does and concludes is that Lanbide enjoys legal protection for the processing of the data described in it and that this second authorization is not necessary. Therefore, what we do is not ask for that second authorization that the INE, at the time, demanded from us. What we've done has is what the agency tells us, decide that in that annex first it is not obligatory to request that the second consent that the INE demanded of us at the time. Moreover, within what is the improvement we are developing in Lanbide, we will expand the information that will be given to the applicants. We only process and use the information strictly necessary to verify the compliance and obligations of the applicants, Mrs Guanche.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. fourteen points in theme list: These interpelations will be discussed at once: "Interpelation by Edurne Garcíagarmbbee Together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head of the Educational department, the effects of 69/ 2015 Decree for the education of scholars outside the University of the Elegomics. "Interra, Juana de Bengoechea Esté, a member of the Popula team, made for the head of the Board of Education, about the school of children of two years." Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u99	Good morning, ma'am. Partners. Mrs Uriarte, may I ask you, are you and the Government of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party taking into account the consequences of your decisions on members of the educational community? Do you put yourself in the place of families and students at this time? Or is it that, as these decisions do not affect you or your own, they give you exactly the same consequences? I say this because there are times when listening to them we have that feeling, and on this occasion the same thing happens to us. We already know that management, or rather good management in education, is not the strength of this government, but do you not think it would be important to put on the shoes of families? As a matter of fact, we're used to this government situation. This government, such a civilized and democratic division, does not appreciate the influence of public politics, but it would be well to consider the consequences which may arise from the decisions which you make at least. It doesn't matter, just do what I say, and it's all right here. Yes, it does, Mrs. Uriarte, it does. Its decisions have an impact on the educational quality of Basque boys and girls, on the lives of families and on reconciliation and co-responsibility. Are you aware of that? Because on top of that, you'll wonder why the birth rate is falling. Because this is what has happened with the school transport of the two-year-old boys and girls from public, public school, this detail is also important. "Eskola publikoa", bear garrantzitsua da ere hau zehaztea, because in this topic there are also differences between networks. It happens that the concerted schools have not hit the children of that age to travel on the buses, but you in the audience have. What a surprise! What's really happened? That a good morning someone realized that it was not guaranteed that 2 year old boys and girls would travel on buses with the right attachment devices? Does this mean that so far no one has been concerned about safety in school transport? But the most serious thing is that before worrying about finding solutions to the problem, this Government decided to leave them without transport, without transport, without transport for the two-year-olds, creating a serious problem for reconciliation and co-responsibility in families. Let's do an exercise in imagination, Mrs. Uriarte. Imagine you have two children, one 2 years old and one 7 years old. What would you do if you were told overnight that your 2-year-old son couldn't ride the bus? Assemble your child May on the bus and quickly go with the little one by car – at best – to get to school in time. And in the afternoon pick up the little one and run home to get there before the bus arrives with the big one. And besides all this, how would you reconcile this situation with employment, with household chores, with leisure, with out-of-school...? It is true that the current regulations do not include transporting 2 year old boys and girls, but would it not have been logical to solve the problem before they withdrew their service? Looking for an alternative? Not only do they no longer solve the problem, they create another bigger one. You seem to have stood up one morning and said, "Come, as of today, the regulations are being complied with." Today, but not yesterday, without predicting the problems that this generates, without offering solutions of any kind. You have gone out again, to everything running and without thinking too much, to say that you rectify and that there is no problem anymore, and it is not true, Mrs Uriarte. Ez da egia eta badakizue. What they have done is pass the ball of the problem to a third party, to schools. They have washed their hands saying that the transport of children under 2 years of age remains, and he literally quoted: "Under the responsibility of the centers". We are talking about 92% of the 2-year-olds in Euskadi are in school. This course, 27,063 students from 0 to 2 years of age go to centers of both networks. And although not all require school transportation, many of them do. And what do you propose, Mrs. Uriarte? What do you propose? It seems that, although late, always late, he has realized that the decision to remove the transport of two-year-old boys and girls was obviously not the most appropriate decision. And this week you have no choice but to rectify, but be careful, you have a different way of rectifying yourself, counselor! I quote, again, literally, his words: "The two-year-old students of the Basque public school will be able to continue using school transport as they have been doing so far, as long as the educational institutions approve it." I mean, rectify, yes, but it's no use and nothing's changed. Hate you, throw out balloons. There are public schools that are asking families to sign a document in which they assume responsibility for what may happen. Do you think this is normal? Anyone with a minimum of legal knowledge knows that such authorizations have no value in the event of something happening. But it also states that they will not hinder the provision of school transport. It was just missing, Mrs. Uriarte, it was just missing! They say that for the Department of Education, ensuring the safety of schoolchildren on their way to the school is a priority. For all this, Mrs Uriarte, we ask you. What concrete and urgent steps will be taken by the Department of Education to respond to the school transport needs of the first-cycle child education student during this course? What are you going to do to ensure that two-year-old boys and girls are safe and secure on the bus? Concretely, please, Madam Counsellor, because the communication sent to the centres is not clear; it is confusing and is generating a lot of anger, as is normal, among families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u101	In 1994, on 5 October, the International Labour Organization and UNESCO signed an agreement on the situation of teachers at the global level. And that's why, since that year of 1994, October 5 is International Teacher's Day. They will allow us a small introduction to my speech, which is to express to all teachers, on behalf of our group, our respect, our support and our consideration on their international day. Well, let's get to the point now. This matter derives from the decree published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country on Friday, 22 May 2015, which is Decree 69/2015 of 19 May 2015 entitled: "On the school transport of pupils from public non-university schools in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country financed by the department responsible for education", i.e. by the Board of Education. This decree did regulate transport, but it left it open, there were loopholes, there were things I didn't talk about, there were exceptions, I admitted special situations, etc. So, in those uncovered holes, it came up that the two - year - olds used school transportation. His situation was not covered by the decree, but as an exception, as a special situation, he uses it. In the month of March the councillor, and they can tell me, "For it was not the councillor, it was not I don't know who...", but someone authorized by the Councillor of Education informs the centers of the following: "For all this, the first cycle student of Children's Education is not within the scope of the regulatory regulation of school transport". That is, he expels them from this decree. Well, it's March, it's March; April, May, June, July, August and it's September. And in September, at least the Vizcay centres are told that if children under the age of three are to use school transport, they would always do so under their responsibility. The words in something that is normative are very important. Because this doesn't really mean anything. Because it's the responsibility of whoever hired the insurance and who pays for the transport, and that's the Home Office. And chaos forms. And there is also chaos at a time when these children in many schools have periods of adaptation, with different times of entry and exit, because I am not going to say every day, but every four or five days. There are problems in which there are several brothers, one of whom can use the bus and the other cannot... And in the press it appears on October 2nd, perhaps from earlier times, but it appears on October 2nd, that the government – between quotes – "from the back", which materializes in another writing to the centers. Let me, I have it here, and these things have to be read, because, if we all end up in a conflict, the writing will be very important. It is said that "the Council will not hinder from the application – do not ask me what the application is, but, well, that is what is here – that the addresses of the centres, based on their criteria and the autonomy of the centre, can authorize the transport of the two-year-old student. This decision must be shared between those responsible for the educational institutions and the families." And then, in the press we read, intercomilado, as if it had been said, that I imagine that yes, that journalists will have covered it this way, in El Correo, we read that in a press release it is said that this decision to use the buses would always be made by the centers under their responsibility. Look, a note from the press is not effective in a conflict, and what would be effective would be this writing. And in this writing it doesn't come from whose responsibility it is. He says that it will not be impeded, and that it will have to be a shared decision between educational institutions and families. He's not talking about responsibility. Gentlemen, if there's an accident, God forbid, and we have a serious situation, whose responsibility is it? Our group believes that whoever hires the service and who pays for it, who is the Home Office. I mean, this handwashing isn't possible. Well, and then the two-year-olds seem to be back on school transport. Of course, since the fence was lifted in March to October it has been quite a few months, many of them summer, we know, but the education cycles do not coincide with the cycles of the most common workers. So, it has been many months, and in this decree has the advice a perfect tool to solve these problems. The decree establishes a school transport monitoring committee and will propose appropriate measures to improve school transport in all its forms and will report on the exceptional authorisations referred to in school transport. And there is the director or director of economic management, the director of infrastructure and material resources, the director or director of schools, the delegate or territorial delegate of education, the head of economic management and budgets, the head of complementary services and scholarships, and the president will be the director or director of economic management. In other words, a body is created precisely to solve these problems and you will see, from what I have read to you, that it is an organ at the highest level. What has this body done since March, in which children under three years of age are expelled from school transport, until September? We haven't seen him act. So, depending on what I have said, which I think is quite objective, our group would like to ask the adviser the following questions: Is there a safety problem in transporting two-year-olds or is there not? That's the fundamental one. If there is an accident in school transport today, who is responsible? Who hired the insurance? Who hired the bus service? Who pays for it? Who's responsible? Third. When did the Transport Monitoring Committee meet? The one that came in the decree, which was a good idea, because you can make a decree about a service, but the needs of service change, the circumstances, etc., etc. When has the school transport monitoring committee met to address this problem? What date did you do it? Have you requested technical reports, as you are trained, from other bodies or administrations? What consequences have you drawn? And if it has really brought about consequences and can put forward actions, when are they going to come into force? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u103	Mr. President of Parliament, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Before Mrs. García and Mrs. Bengochea answer questions, I'd like to highlight the value of the supplementary school service for public school students. We carry 21,220 children every day through the service I'm conducting, in the 542 routes. As you know, it is the commitment of this government and of my department to guarantee the equality of education, and thereby to promote the education system, which will help us to overcome the social obstacles, and to guarantee cohesion and equity. In the help or compensation system which is established in education, the principles of equality and equity are fulfilled in the access of education; and I should like to remark today that the service of transportation is specially employed. It is an additional service in education and social character, and as it is an educational feeling, it must also be balanced on the care of the students, families, and education centres themselves, who employ their purpose and service. For this reason, the supplementary service of the school-carry is one of the primary activities of education, and the strengthening of the political and domestic measures of education without the university, and of the cultivation of life, in order to fulfil the duties of this government and its duties to the people. At the present day service is principally given by two means of transport; First, by the use of the course of vehicles hired by the department of education, which are allowed by means of special public services to transport students by road. And secondly, by the direct transport paid by the students, which has been considered entirely or partially, just through the appeal of individually subsidizing organizations to the school. In the case of scholars with special needs of education, even a particular service is organized. Even if this be so, the students who have special needs will always use the usual service of transport, if they are adapted to their wants. Around the latest modality, for instance, we have about three thousand in number (in the usual call of students 900 and around 920 in a special education call). On the other hand, we can't forget that the Board of Education is organising the service of bus contributors in the courses he hired, which are 420 helpers. All these actions – direct services, individualised aids and accompanying services – form the complex resource map that our Government articulates in order to adequately meet the needs arising from the provision of the complementary school transport service with all guarantees of quality and safety, and it is important to highlight it, as I pointed out at the beginning of my intervention. By drawing attention to the issues raised, we must focus on the first mode of transport, which is the one directly provided by the department through the vehicles contracted for this purpose. In this regard, the basic regulatory framework in force for the provision of this service is that laid down in Decree 69/2015 of 19 May 2015 on the transport of pupils from public non-university schools in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, financed by the department responsible for education. A regulatory framework adopted and put into effect in 2015 which arose mainly because of the need for integration into a single text of all the elements necessary for the provision of the complementary transport service, under the principles of equality and equity for their access, providing the greatest possible legal certainty to the student user of the service, to their families and to the educational centres themselves. It should be noted here that until this new regulation there was no rule that would integrate the entire regulation of this service. Among the principal innovations of the Decretion, it has been stated that a deputy, a technical committee, has the power of examining and deciding exceptions, especially to the field of the country, always to adapt the regulation to the daily cases. That is to say, extraordinary situations, which give the right to receive assistance for transports, are regulated in order to reply to the various cases we have observed, and to ensure the equity necessary for the service. In like manner it is fulfilled which has been agreed on in the legislature, in order to pay attention to the vast case which has been established. In like manner, by this decree, the general and universal regulation of this supplement of service has been made. The decree was developed under three basic premises. First, to guarantee the universality of the essential service of education, by helping him to do so, by helping him to carry the schools himself; secondly, by providing a regulation which will ensure the students of the whole Autonomy of the Union to be treated homogeneously and equally; and thirdly, by establishing a procedure which will guarantee the service to provide for transparency and management correction. I should like to penetrate into two parts of the general regulations of the 69/2015 Decree, namely, the end and the application area. According to what is given in the first article (verse and application scope), he says: "1. The object of this decree is to regulate the whole or partially financed school procession in the field of education; namely, the public schools outside the University of Basque Autonomy, the secondary cycle of Child Education, the instruction of the First Education, and the study of the Second Education. "2. To the effects of this decree, this is considered as a public school: "which is managed by department with jurisdiction in the field of education." In this regard, the regulatory framework of the decree extends only to the second cycle of education of children, primary education and compulsory secondary education in public non-university schools and public management schools. We should also point out that this decree did not establish any change with respect to the previous regulation in force until 2015, which reflected the same levels of education, nor is any instruction known in any other sense. That this decree did not impose any change upon the regulation that had been established until the 2015. There the same degrees of discipline were received, and there are no other orders to be made. Since the implementation of the decree in 2015 and in order to implement it, three forms of use of the services contracted in the decree have been established. The first of the cases, as a full-fledged student, applies to students who meet the zoning and distance requirements set out in the decree and who, in addition to the school bus station, benefit from a number of rights that such a qualification entails, such as the subsidized meal fee. The second of the assumptions is the student carried with exception, a situation duly authorized by the school transport monitoring commission, which for this purpose is set out in article 12 of the decree, and which guarantees the place of school transport to the student of the area, a situation which does not entail a subsidy of the dining room. The school transport monitoring commission, in accordance with article 12 of the decree, analyses and reports on the exceptional authorisations proposed by the territorial delegations. And finally, the one concerning the so-called "authorized" student, who occupies free places, without the right to a school place and who is authorized by the director of the centre according to the priority criteria set out in the decree for a maximum period of a school year. In the latter case the students who are allowed to fill the vacant places, without right to the school-place, and the Director of the school allow it, according to the criteria of the preference established in the decree, to be the most learned. I insist, since the entry into force of Decree 69/2015 of 19 May, this has been the operational one and there has been no change in criteria in the object and application of it. I repeat: Since the 69/2015 Decree of May 19 has been introduced in force, this has been the manner of acting, and there has been no change of criteria in its object and application. On 12 December 2017, in writing submitted by the Territorial Delegation of Bizkaia, a number of clarifications are requested and the Directorate of Economic Management is informed of the two-year student transport operation, following a prioritisation criteria similar to those established for the rest of the student, without benefiting, in any case, from the subsidized share of the dining room, with a view to informing families attending the pre-school period. It should be stressed that this group, that of two-year-old boys and girls, is not included in the scope of the decree and is thus transferred in a clarification response offered on 28 December 2017. In this sense, Mrs Bengoechea, the communication transferred to the centers in March 2018 that you quote in your justification comes only to clarify – to be a clarification note, in fact – the precepts of the scope of application of the decree and in no way represents a change in the criterion of application of the decree, which is the one in force and established since its publication. Having said that, and as I explained at the beginning of my speech, school transport is a factor that determines the exercise of the right to quality education under the principles of cohesion and equity. And, therefore, it is part of the obligations that must be assumed by the Education Administration in certain circumstances and teachings. On the other hand, we are aware that there are aspects of improvement, new situations that require the adjustment of the regulation of the transport service. Since the beginning of 2018 we have been challenging the improvement of the service, seeing the possibilities of adequacy, of incorporating new cases, such as the inclusion of the two-year student in that complementary service. We are the autonomous community that has the highest enrolment rate of children at the age of two (about 92.9% – dated 2016 – compared to 58.7% of the state average) and we must equip ourselves with complementary actions that strengthen and, above all, regulate and guarantee the needs of families. In fact, in the document on the basis of the agreement itself, in the section on the adequacy of structures and the organization of the new education paradigm system, And that's the line we're working on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u105	Thank you, señora, president. Mrs Uriarte, we have asked you about urgent, "emergency" measures. He said that the course will address the amendment of the decree 2015 regulating the school transport service. When and how? Do you really think that by correcting and letting two-year-olds ride buses under the responsibility of the centre, the problem is being solved? Have you thought, at least for once, about talking to families? Or are we going to meet again with a decree in the Education Committee, as it did with the enrolment decree? Families request that children in the first cycle of children be included in the decree as authorized transporters. So far, the two-year-old student could use the school transport as authorized, provided that there was a place and in the event of no transport stop where it belonged. Is it time to change this, Mrs. Uriarte? Is this what you mean when you talk about amending the decree? Concrete. Families also claim to guarantee the number of places, that there are enough places, because I don't know if you know, Mrs Uriarte, but we tell you, but, for example, in Zalla there are children who can stay on the ground, without a bus, depending on whether there are places available or not. In addition to this, Uribe Kosta's Gurasoak Martxan Neighborhood Platform calls for a thorough review of road safety regulations and the technical characteristics of approvals. They want their children to travel safely. What the hell! You, of course, and I understand that yes, you would want the same for your children. In conclusion, it is the duty of the Department of Education and this Government to facilitate the reconciliation of families and to offer educational quality, rather than hindering them on a daily basis, creating confusion in the centres and creating more barriers. Once again, we are faced with a Department of Education that demonstrates with its actions that it remains aimless and acts on the basis of complaints from families. And this is not normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Uriarte, let's see, you say that that communication to the centers didn't change anything from the decree. Look, it did change, because when there was no more than the decree, before that circular, the children of the first cycle of children went on the bus under the mode that they were authorized by the center, etc., etc., but they have been going, yes. And when you send the circular, you expel them, they say, "these children are not covered by this decree"; they communicate that, that is, they expel them. But, look, that's not even the most important thing. It makes me very excited when I make an inquiry and I see that we have prepared it with the same documents, and you repeat what I have said, it makes me very excited, it makes me feel important, but, of course, you have not answered the questions I have asked you. Do you remember that saying that says "against the vice of asking, the virtue of not giving"? Well, let's turn it around, let's change the "addict" and "virtue." My obligation, my virtue, is to question, and then I would say, "against the virtue of questioning, the vice of not answering." You have not answered the questions and for us these questions are very important. Is there a safety problem in transporting two-year-olds or is there not? That's the main question. It is even the question that you can endorse that in March the two-year-olds were expelled from the decree's coverage, and I can even share that, because that is the fundamental thing. Now, what I cannot share, Madam Counsellor, is that there is no choice, because it is six months. You see that we have described the same follow-up committee. We both thought it was very important and the tool to solve this problem. And in six months what has that follow-up committee done? What have you done? Because I'm going to tell you something that I think of – it's expensive, it's expensive, I'm also telling you – but you in that decree say that there are several ways to provide transportation. One, the one we've been using so far, which is the one that has caused problems, which is through vehicle routes contracted by the competent department, that is, by you. Another, through agreements with other administrations, which may be municipal transport, for the use of transport services. And a third, by means of transport directly financed by students, fully or partially compensated through grantable calls and individualized allocations of school transport. Let's see, those kids could even go in well-equipped private vehicles, parents could agree, we could have an initiative there or in the taxi formula or something. Because we have a contract with the buses, and until that contract expires, you will not be able to change the conditions under which that contract was awarded. You can't put a chair on. We've talked to transport companies, you can't put silences or adaptations to normal buses. So, what has that follow-up committee done in these eight months? What solution did you propose? And he hasn't answered me. We've read the same thing, but he hasn't answered me. Is there a safety problem in transporting two-year-olds or is there not? The second, very important, if there is today an accident in the school transport in which two-year-olds are affected – God forbid – who are responsible? Who? But who pays for transportation, who has hired the insurance premium, who has allowed children to travel? The third one. When did the school transport monitoring committee meet to address this problem, on what date? And what technical reports from other entities do you have to come up with a solution? That's what I asked you, it's my virtue. Please turn your vice into virtue and answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u109	Mrs García, Mrs Bengoechea, I think that, simply listening to you, you have not listened to me carefully, because I believe that in some matters that you have returned to The answer was clear in my first speech. In response to your concerns and questions, and as I have commented in my previous speech, we are aware of the need to move forward by incorporating new measures. During the operational implementation of Decree 69/2015 during its period of validity, opportunities for improvement and new demands and needs are being identified through the school transport monitoring commission, which meets regularly, especially when all requests by delegations come, in terms of distances, areas, specific treatment of rural areas, and also requests for the extension of the service to students of two years. In a process of continuous improvement, it is this way of reducing exceptional situations by taking advantage of the experience of prior authorizations and their typology to include them in the general rule. In this regard, I would like to inform you that we are working, as I said earlier, on a new draft decree from the beginning of the year, which will improve the provision of complementary school transport services and will certainly complement and clarify the cases of implementation in the interests of greater efficiency and administrative simplification in our relationship with the families and the addresses of the centres. On the other hand, and with immediate effect, regarding the doubts raised in the interpretation of the literality of the decree, on 28 September the Territorial Delegation of Bizkaia transferred specific indications to the centers, as you have mentioned. In other words, having carried out an analysis of the situation generated and in the interest of helping in the family reconciliation, it is not going to be impeded from the application that the addresses of the centers, based on their criterion and autonomy of center, can authorize the transport of the student of two years. This decision shall be shared between the heads of the centres and the families. That is to say, after examining the situation, and helping it in the family alliance, it will not be objected that the directors of the schools may be allowed the transportation of the two-year-old students, based on the criteria of the school and autonomy. This decision will be agreed on by the school managers and families. Allegia, ez da aldaketarik egon ikastetxeen zuzendariek orrain art gardenko izan duten moduan. That is to say, there is no change in the way in which they have so far been doing and developing from the direction of the centres. There's been no change. As I have pointed out in the meantime In the incorporation of two-year-old girls and boys into the scope of the decree – because they are not collected and cannot be collected as they are at present – and, if so, in the security measures that should be implemented as a priority for this department the safety of our girls and boys. And in relation to what Mrs García asked me, of course we talked with the families and with the addresses of the centres, which we spoke before and recently talked about. We've been talking all the time, and we've been talking about this. The Department of Education is continuously analysing possible measures to enhance safety in school transport and will continue along these lines. As I have at first remarked, all the performances, arranged in order to provide a proper answer to the supplementary service of the school-carry, are confirmed by all the guarantees of quality and security, and it is important to remark its value. Our priority has been the security of our students. The schoolcarry has a security rule to be strictly observed in all parameters. The Decree 965/2006 King of September 1, the Decreeed 1428/2003 King of December, approved that which changes the general rule of the Circulation, and the regulations for the transportation of the school, the Decreety King 443/2003, the 27th of April, the Security of the Schools, and the minors. Y si mirin la Normiva, el transporte de los niños de dos años no está redulado, no está recodo en la Normiva. And part of his questions, if you like, since he also usually reads the press, yesterday there was a good article in the newspaper, which partly answers his questions. I mean, who's responsible, who's not responsible... We do the hiring of the itineraries. This, as I have said at first, ought to be taken notice of, of the obligation they have of setting up the conditions of education, which afford a right to education of quality, founded on the principle of cohesion and equity. And the rest of the school service of the student of public schools is established as a predilection, and, as I have said before, to strengthen the policy and education of families and families for the instruction of the university, in order to fulfil the demands which this government has with its engagements and families. And I would like to conclude my speech by again highlighting the complementary school transport service of the pupils of public schools, because, as an administration, it is up to us to regulate and ensure that safety prevails, the provision of the complementary school transport service of the pupils of public schools.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Rebeka Ubera Aranz and EH Team members of the Board of Education, about the service of schoolboys in the 16th School cycle of Child Education." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u111	Good morning, everyone. Ms. Greart, we all know how to read the regulations, all right? But what we want here is for you to answer, what you've never done before. And even in the transportation service you are avoiding your responsibility. The school transport case hasn't been solved since 2013. Besides, there hasn't been a problem with students from 2015 to 2018, and just now that the government has to open family aids, you're making more difficulties than ever. From 2015 it has been evident that the decree which regulates the transportation service has been a means of applying the restrictions. Every year It had been some of them, and now they're two years old. But until, in your own words, "novdosa regulción." Lo que hay que oír! Vaya, "novdosa." But I'm glad that you're changing the decree now, because I don't know how many arguments we're having in this house before this decree, so many parents have passed through, I don't know how many schools and all of them you've always refused to change this regulation, but, well, welcome here's a step. You don't take your responsibility, we don't even know your criteria. On the 28th of September, the representative Land of Biscay sends a letter to the colleges of the Biscaia, which we do not know what has happened in Aran and Gipuzia, we would like to know what the criteria are, and there they are told that the app will open to them. So it's a lie: the application has been closed. The application has been closed. Speak honestly to us, please! But at least we're glad you opened the app. But what we want to know is your responsibility for you, will you? What criteria will you secure the transportation? That's what we want to know, and we want answers, Mrs. Uriart, responses.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u113	Mrs. Groundpresidete. Ms. Ubera, as may be repeated to answer your question, I must remind you of the explanations I have already given you. I would like to shew, that the engagement of this government and of my department is to guarantee the equality of education to the education of quality, and to promote the system of education, which will help us to overcome the social obstacles, by securing cohesion and equity. As I said to you, the school station for students in public schools is a piece of the bet that this government has on the side of education as a challenge in the country. The security of the rights of education gives us uneasiness and care, and the division is continually adapting its activities to the necessities of the system and of its agents. And this is the proposition of change. And this is giving us solutions without lightness and speed and improvisation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u115	Look, it's one thing we don't want to answer, but it's another thing not to answer family and schools, and further, it's an obstacle. We assume that the Board of Education must be a traveling companion and that it is necessary to provide facility with this companion, that the responsibilities must be on its own account, that it must ensure security, and that the means should be established. And that's exactly what we don't see from this Board of Education. Look, Mrs. Uriart, we can read. What you've done today is read 69/2015 Decret, but one thing has been missing you reading article 10. I recommend you read Article 10. It's very interesting. And what we've seen now is that even in this case the Board of Education reacts in an active manner, when it escapes responsibility, but when it sees that families and schools begin to move, when they start to press, it answers. And we don't want a field of education like that. We want a field of education that will take responsibility, which will accompany, which will direct the work... And, no doubt, the transportation service must also be improved, 69/2015 Decree must be improved, and this must be done in conjunction with the schools. And for that we have put a proposition on the table: I want you to pick up schools that are helpless and we'll go and solve it among the rest of us. But to this discussion on the table from 2013, we must establish a final solution, Mrs. Uriarte, we cannot go on like this. So what we're asking you to do is take responsibility, take over you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u117	Ubera anderea, ez dakit, equal ok zaude, baina 10. artikulua da: "Bus companions on the routes contracted by the department in educational matters". Horri buruz ari zara hitz egiten? Hori da hamargarrena. As I said before, and though our education system is in decay and you want to present it in its state negative, it doesn't show reality. They're giving a lot of steps to improve our system, investing it in education, and, in fact, every year, they're increasing public schools. For the first time in 2015 the service of transportation was regulated in general, and the principle of equality and equity to appeal to the safety and services of the service was primary. It was regulated for the first time! New and flexible circumstances were to be foreseen in the administration of the legislature, and what is most important has not since been changed by the administration, although this has been intended to be understood. You don't seem to be able to speak without mentioning the word constraint, and, really, it doesn't make sense, it's not real. It's like a mantra. They haven't been. The other thing is that, according to your opinion, the service should be different. As I have already said, we are aware that there are aspects of improvement and that we must move forward and adapt to the reality of the moment, such as the inclusion of the two-year student in this complementary service, and we have been working on this since the beginning of the year. As I mentioned earlier, we are the autonomous community that has the highest enrolment rate of children at the age of two (about 93 per cent) and we must have complementary measures that strengthen and, above all, regulate and guarantee the needs of families. This is how we plan the arrangement in the document itself, adapting structure and organizing the system according to the latest educational apparatus. We'll continue to bet on the services given to families, and others on the value of the school transport. For they are the services of quality, by which a higher education is fostered, and are founded on cohesion and equity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "Ask me, Juan Uria Serrana, together with the law student of the Podemos to the head of the health department, concerning the removal of the family of the U.A. family and the staff of the community's Medical Education." Mr. Uria, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u119	Bakartxo anderea, Sailburuak, fellow parliamentarians who still remain in the House, my appreciation and consideration. It is a question to the health counselor, direct and simple: Why has he ceased or authorized the cessation, to the doctor Rafael Gracia Ballarín, responsible for the Teaching Unit of Family and Community Medicine in Gasteiz? After a time of leaving the forums a document signed by more than 560 family doctors and pediatricians, called "Lehen stops arnasberritzen", proposing changes for the improvement of primary care in Osakidetza, signed by Dr. Rafael Gracia, the counselor ceased or authorized the cessation of the aforementioned doctor from his position as responsible. Why did you do it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u120	Thank you, Mr. Uria. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u121	Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. Uria, good noon to all. First of all, I must say that I do not intend to name or remove the responsibility of the Unit of Education in Family and Community Medical. That responsibility belongs to the Osarists' director. In any case, to answer your question properly, I was informed. The answer is very simple. The position for which you ask me is that of head of the Teaching Unit of Family and Community Medicine of Araba, a technical position. As you well know, in February 2013, the last legislature, the Director of Human Resources of Osakidetza proceeded to the appointment of Dr. Rafael Gracia because the Directorate of Osakidetza considered that he was the right professional at that particular time. I was also the counselor at the time. After five years since his appointment, and having completed a cycle, the Osakidetza Directorate has considered it necessary to renew the leadership in the performance of the post and to adapt the profile to the new challenges of the post, which is why a new appointment has been made in the same way and with the same criteria, i.e. nothing special. You know as well as I do that the positions that are considered to be responsible for programs, middle management and managers are of a temporary nature, have a beginning and an end, and that is simply what has happened. We often listen to your political group that you have not come to perpetuate yourselves, but to carry out a task. I completely agree with you on that criterion, we are not here forever. This is what has happened for the post you are interested in.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u122	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u123	Mrs. All alone. Counselor, nothing here moves without your permission. We already know that all appointments of free designation begin when they are appointed and end when they are ceased, so is life in all aspects of life and public administration. Last May, orain de la bost hilabete, gutxi gorabehera, stopped doctor Rafael Gracia, family doctor, responsible for five years of the Faculty of Family and Community Medicine, where family doctors are trained in Euskadi, secretary of the board of directors of Osatzen, which is the Scientific Society of Family and Community Medicine of Euskadi, of which was President for more than five years, one of the leaders of Euskadi of the family doctors movement. Several professional associations, social groups and hundreds of family doctors have called for correction. It has been a warning to navigators, Mr. Darpón: "He who criticizes me pays it." It was a mistake, it was a major mistake in his professional and political career. You yourself are a member of Osatzen, you are a specialist in family and community medicine, which has more than 1,200 associated family doctors. It has been a superb behavior, not in the sense of "magnificent", but in the sense of "celotypical", an attitude difficult to understand. Cessation of primary care leaders and does not touch a hair of more than 19 heads of hospital service on which there is evidence that they have participated directly and explicitly in the OPE fraud of Osakidetza, in some examinations. Some service chiefs who have called me, honored, most, don't give credit for what's going on. Stop primary care leaders and promise their reform. It's disrespectful, Mr. Darpón. Today it's going to rain, at night, as La Pegatina's song says, "It'll rain, and I'll see" how you rectify before this legislature finishes some quiet mistakes that you're making, some clumsiness that you're making. It will rain and I will see how some things will change in Osakidetza to your regret. It is true, as the lehendakari confirmed, that the Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health, of which I am a member, has considered the Basque Country to be the best health service of the 17 autonomous communities. Don't open any more fronts, too many open fronts (corruption, clientelism, friendships). Don't open any more; above all, don't open any more unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u124	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u125	Mr. Uria, may it not be that you have a special or personal interest in Dr. Gracia? As has been said before, such posts are not always kept by free appointment. There must be a beginning and an end, luckily. Mr. Uria, you've made a porrusalda that there's nowhere to put the spoon in. When it comes out prescribed, fill it out. In the specific case you asked for, I was already a counselor when you were appointed and I remain so, therefore, will not influence my personal attitude towards the doctor you have mentioned. The Osakidetza Directorate considered it important to adapt the professional profile. The person currently occupying it is a family doctor with the same or equivalent prestige and no complaint about it and therefore be respectful to the leaders of Primary Care. Be respectful of yourself. And, of course, he is perfectly fulfilling the objectives of the training project he has commissioned and, if not, I also advise him to speak with the residents of Araba's family and community medicine and with the rest of his colleagues. Look, I share your interest in primary care, because between you and me, it's me who's a family doctor. In addition, I share the interest in the better training of future specialists in family and community medicine. That's why we're improving the program, that's why a cycle is over and that's why someone else has come to continue. And I'm sure you should share the criteria, not just by mouth, but also by facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u126	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Myria Llanos Gómez of the Basque Groups of Pogula and the Chief of Policians, the Council of the EIB Administration in Irvara." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u127	Thank you, Madam President, good morning – good afternoon already almost – to everyone. Mr Councilman, our public television has a budget of EUR 110 million, of which 90% (EUR 98 million) comes from the budgets of the Basque Government, of which you are part, specifically from your department. That is, almost 100 million euros that ETB costs come out of the pocket of all Basques. Faced with this with the current direction, the connection between ETB and Basque society, measured objectively, i.e. measured through the hearings, has reached its historical minimums. With data I have collected from Mamba Negra, in September 2018 ETB-1 had a hearing of 2.2%, 21% less than in August; ETB-2 7.9%, less than 8 for the first time in this year 2018; and ETB-3 0.3%, 40% less than in August. These are the results that this address can offer. A questioned address, as never before had an address been. A direction that is maintained not precisely by the results, but is maintained with assisted breathing, with assisted political breathing, for pure political convenience. And as long as that convenience persists, the Basques will continue to pay for cleavage a poorly managed public television, completely removed from the reality of the Basques, in which everything is decided according to the political criterion of the person in charge, that is, according to the political criterion of the PNV. And in the face of this, what is done? Well, nothing. Look elsewhere, divert attention and attend to political whims. Because the transfer of the meeting of the EITB Board of Directors to Pamplona is a political whim. Because I ask you, Mr. Counsellor, what was the need to take the EITB Board of Directors to Pamplona? What's the reason? How much did that trip cost us to all the Basques, your apartment? How much do the disconnections that are supposed to be made in Navarre cost us, how much is it going to cost the Basques? Are the ships going to put something on?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u128	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u129	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, good morning. Well, I thought the question I was being asked was what was the reason for moving the meeting of the EITB Board of Directors to Pamplona. And that's the one I'm going to try to answer, although I don't think I should, Mrs. Llanos. As you are well aware, the decision on the date and venue of the meetings of the EITB Board of Directors is the responsibility of the President of the Board of Directors, pursuant to article 13 of the EITB Creation Act and article 28 of the Board of Directors' Rules of Procedure. It is not for the Basque Government to know the reasons for that decision or to require information on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u130	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u131	Counselor, apart from the fact that the justification also came, the questions are asked here. And apart from why the Board of Directors was taking Navarra, I also asked what was going to cost the disconnections that are supposed to be made in Navarra. And, you, I don't know if you're going to tell me what the justification is that EITB issues in Navarre. Is it because of the subject of language, because of the subject of Basque? That's right, now ETB-2 is also broadcasting in Navarre. And why? Why is the Board of Directors moving to Navarra and why is this obsession with issuing in Navarra? For it is explained according to the nationalist creed, to that ideological pretension that the Basque Nationalist Party has to occupy Navarra. And that is why this transfer from the Governing Council to Navarre is used as an instrument. It is intended to convey the image that EITB is public television, not Euskadi, but that Euskal Herria that does not exist, which Navarra would be part of. That's why they're trying to turn ETB, not Basque TV, not Euskal Herria TV. And they're trying to make it Navarra's public television, that's right, without the shipowners, at least for all we know, having a hard time. On other issues, what is there is a political use of EITB, of instrumentalizing it in the service of an identity political interest. As I say, in the absence of "Euskal Herria politique", they claim the "Euskal Herria digital", the "Euskal Herria of the waves". That show of a political pose, of an absurd pose of a questioned leadership that cannot address the institution's problems. But those fantasies, gentlemen of the PNV, you pay them with your money, not with the money of all Basques. And what you have to do and what you have to do as an EITB advisor, is a public television on which all Basques, all of us, are represented, where there is professional management, where the criteria are not decided at the political headquarters of a party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u132	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u133	President andrea. Just andrea, I'm going to stick to the question you asked me. This is not the first time that the EITB Board of Directors has met in Iruña and, in addition, there is evidence of the existence and participation of some of its party partners on some previous occasion. I think it is normal for the EITB Council to maintain the habit of meeting at the different venues in Bilbao, Miramon, Gasteiz and Iruña, which are areas where the content of the EITB Group is broadcast and received. As regards the reception of radio and television signals in Navarre, the Parliament of the Foral Community itself, representing the sovereignty of the citizens of Navarre, has on more than one occasion demanded the normalisation of the capture of EITB, and this interest has been reflected in the various agreements that the Basque Government has signed with the Navarro Executive, both in the times of the lehendakari López, with the support of its party, and in those of the lehendakari Urkullu. I believe that it is logical that a community that shares with us two official languages, the Basque and the Spanish, and whose citizens, in addition, show interest in the information and entertainment content on EITB's radios and television and radio programs, ask to improve their capture. And I think there is a consideration that you should add to all that you have done, because it seems to me to be the main and most important of all. An important part of Navarre's society has made numerous efforts, including personal efforts, since the start of ITBE emissions in 1982, to ensure that they are received normally in the neighbouring outside community. And the main reason that this demand has been present from the beginning and the reason why its regularization has been the subject of agreement between the Basque and Navarro governments is one and the main reason. And it is none other than the will of the Navarra society to receive naturally the radio and television broadcasts that EITB broadcasts in Basque and Spanish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u134	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interlation, Investigators of the Casanova Alonso EH Collecting Groups Chief of Work and Justice, about the model of the Society Table." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u135	Yes, good noon again, all of you. Good afternoon, Mrs. San José. When our parlamental team introduced this interpelation, the theme that was in the cake was about the social conversation, the crisis at that moment that the conversation was passing. Some union unions, owing to a agreement signed by your government with Confebask, had agreed to hand over jobs to Confebask, and several union unions decided to rise from that table and the Society Table that was frozen at that moment. Now, at least, it seems that this crisis has been over, but we believe that our interpenetration is still perfect, because at that moment we were not aware of this momentary crisis, but because our interaction was based on a critical criticism about the planning of your government around the social conversation. I'm saying that the crisis at the interview table is over for the moment, and I don't want to focus too much on that, but we'll see how you can handle it in the future. On the table, whether your government will discuss the agreement signed with Confebask or leave zero. The Councilbrais said he'd start from zero, while Confebask says that these companies will be discussed and you'll have to explain to us whether he'll start from scratch and talk about the Social Court Club as to the jobs police or the honor of being the patronary and the corrections of unions. They are. But that, as I said, is not the central. The most important thing is that social conversation as a whole, and we believe that this table does not reflect, does not really suppose the table for the real social conversation. What kind of social conversation do you need in this town? With whom should they be partakers? And why do we want social conversation? At the table already formed, the majority of the unions have no share in it. In this chamber, not long ago, we have heard that if only a deal has support of 60%, it is a terrible failure. You left that 60% off the Social Dialog table, which doesn't mean that the workers who participate in the table represent another 40. You've got the Society Table, and they're taking part in the UGT and Comissions Obras, and they're speaking out of respect, but they're the only ones who represent 30 percent of workers. We believe that a real interview cannot be based on such a small delegation. And you'll tell us, "There are the people who want to be a part of it." But we ask the government, we demand this government, a profound reflection. It is a profound consideration why those who are not, and those who are not at all, will not have a certain weight, and must at least be taken notice of, in order to make a deep conversation with those who are not. But unfortunately we see that it is the first thing to do at that table, that the figure is the first to imagine that it is the first place to make a possible place for social conversation, but that really hand-bags are very limited. Honestly, the order of matter does not respond to real problems. Today collective negotiations and labor relationships are in a very serious state, and we believe that social conversation is to be answered in order to face this situation. We do not live, in global terms, in a time of weak cows. At the time of weak cows of great economic crisis that we have suffered in recent years with sharp declines in GDP, it could be understood that of "squeezing the belt". Then it is true that some had to squeeze it much more than others, that is also true, but at least it could be justified. But now we are in a time of macroeconomic growth, we are growing to 3% and that growth is not spreading fairly among the working majority in this country. Will the Social Dialogue Bureau respond to that fair distribution of the wealth that is being created? Are you going to respond to the needs of dealing with the loss of purchasing power of wages, conflictivity, the employer's refusal to sign agreements that reflect real progress for workers' rights? Just a few strokes on that reality we have to face: 20% of the workers in this country are still out of agreement and 40% have an extended agreement, this is the data for the end of 2017, although they have improved somewhat over the year. And of those workers who have an agreement, there has been a 20% increase in those who are under the umbrella of a state agreement, which in general represents less coverage and worse conditions than the Basque agreements, which have fallen, in the number of workers covered by those agreements, by 35%. As for wage increases, in 2017 the average increase of that year was 1.47, and the average recorded in the agreements that were signed in 2017 was 1.57 – I am giving data from the report, which you will know perfectly well, from the 2017 CRL. This means that with inflation of 2% both those who brought a previous agreement and those who renewed their agreement in that year were signing or "enjoying" in quotes, salary increases that were not actually raised, but that it was loss of purchasing power. Moreover, although the number of agreements increased in 2017 and wages increased somewhat, behind this there was a significant increase in labour conflictivity, the number of strikes, as well as of days, as well as of participants in strikes during 2017 compared to 2016. That is, what little was achieved was achieved on the basis of a substantial increase in the number of strikes. And that's important: when we talk about confrontation or not confrontation, we have to understand that what little was achieved would have to be said that it took the employer away by a strong increase in mobilization and labor conflictivity. And one last aspect, a fourth aspect of this portrait of the country's labour relations, precariousness continued to grow in its two main facets: temporality and partial work. Temporality is already up to 28.3% and is the highest in the Eustat series, there are more people than ever with a temporary job. Look, every person who had a contract, every person who went through the employment services offices and signed a contract there, in fact, their average contract was 3.08 per year. The rotation rate is 3.08 per year. That is, the person signs three contracts a year. Which gives rise to talk about deep instability. Partial work is another serious problem. 27% of wage earners and wage earners are working part-time and, in addition, the gap between men and women is well known here: 20% of men have a part-time job and 40% of women have a part-time job. Therefore, we see how despite the fact that 2017 was generally better than the previous year, we still have serious problems with the lack of renewal of agreements, increased conflictivity, wage increases that do not mean improvements but loss of purchasing power and increasing precariousness. And why is this happening? We have said this on other occasions, because there is one employer who wants to block collective bargaining in order to impose these conditions and increase its rate of profit. And it happens because that employer has an ad hoc labor law. Not only is it not able to plant against the employer, here we can sign an agreement in this Parliament calling for a general increase in wages, but then it is not able to transfer to the employer with sufficient assertiveness, with sufficient seriousness, with sufficient capacity to demonstrate that the government is fed up with this attitude of the employer, so that it can move that employer. On the contrary, you continue to participate in all the actions of the employer, you continue to delegate to the employer the elaboration of public policies of an economic nature and you were thought of in April nothing less than outsourcing the employment services and putting them in the hands of Confebask, little more or less. And so it is very difficult to take this government and even this Parliament seriously. Therefore, we need a government that bets on a model of social dialogue, that really has representatives of the majority of workers, that has serious and honest bridges towards those who are not and that will also answer all this problem and not remain in a simple staging.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u136	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u137	Mr. President, members of the legislature, good noon to all of you. Mr Casanova, you ask me whether this Government intends to change the model table for social dialogue which prevents the participation of the majority trade unions. And well, in this I have to tell you that we have neither a pitot nor any different interpretation. I will try to answer you following a scheme and argument by which I hope to convey to you the philosophy of the social dialogue that I defend, which we defend within the government and the different ways in which they can be articulated and the reality that we are living in Euskadi in this regard. In Euskadi we are happy to have indices that place us at the head of the regions of Europe on many issues that have to do with the state of social welfare and with the most advanced societies, such as education, and more specifically vocational training; as it has to do with health, innovation, life expectancy and middle income, to name a few. However, I will recognize that in our community the health of social dialogue is not up to those social indicators. The problem is not easy, it is complex, so simple or simple solutions are not allowed. There are many factors that we need to respond to from the responsibility that each of the parties assumes. I am starting from the most widespread and well-known definition of what social dialogue is like that offered by the International Labour Organization, which says: "Social dialogue includes all kinds of negotiation, consultation or simply exchange of information between representatives of the Government, employers and workers, on issues of common interest relating to economic and social policy". Therefore, the model of social dialogue based on tripartite participation is a reference model and in the case of the Basque Government we assume that it is valid and do not consider it appropriate to amend it. It can be complemented by other forms of social dialogue such as bipartite relations between employers and workers' representatives, but in no case can the involvement of governments be avoided. As you know, here we have other bipartisan bodies such as the Labour Relations Council or the Economic and Social Council. Social dialogue needs public officials with a political will to promote it and social actors who act as active subjects in it. It is essential that the social partners fulfil the role assigned to them by article 7 of our Constitution, which qualifies them as bodies of utmost importance that contribute to the defence and promotion of their own economic and social interests. Social dialogue is a necessity in any modern and advanced society, as is ours. It is the best mechanism for improving living and working conditions, and it is an instrument that enables progress towards social justice and plays a crucial role in the challenge of achieving equal opportunities between men and women. Mutual recognition is also required in a relationship of equality... There will be no social dialogue if one of the indispensable actors is considered to be more relevant or rights than another. Well, in Euskadi we have the integral parts, but not the integrative will, and this is evident in the light of the statements of one of its social representatives. Promoting social dialogue ahead of confrontation is a characteristic of societies that evolve and grow. No, the engine of history is not confrontation, Mr Casanova, it is consensus. This does not mean that the right to the claims and mobilizations that serve to defend them should be restricted. Social peace is an aspiration that allows societies to grow in economic, social and rights terms. But this cannot be imposed, it will be the result of dialogue. Respect for the fundamental rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining are essential conditions for social dialogue to be possible. The social dialogue is usually identified with the closest form, such as collective bargaining, which aims at a positive revision of working conditions that are embodied in collective agreements. In this case the role of governments is that of driving, they do not have a direct participation in it. And here I have to tell you, Mr Casanova, that at any time I have had the opportunity to meet the employer, this is what I am transferring you. The tripartite model does call for the direct participation of Governments. In this case the social dialogue acquires another dimension. As reflected in the ILO guidelines, and in various initiatives promoted by the European institutions, social dialogue must serve to ensure that public policies are adapted and respond to the real and concrete demands of citizens, many of which you have raised. In the justification of his interpellation, he said that the Government had made two movements. One of them, I quote: "The elaboration of the decree that would entail the institutionalization of the table". Your Honor, the draft decree to which you refer is not a movement in the sense of change of place or position. It is a consequence of a long history, it is the conclusion and materialization of an agreement reached at the Social Dialogue Bureau, something that was raised at the meeting of the Social Dialogue Bureau on 22 July 2016, and which was ratified the following year. In drafting as you say in the draft decree, we are fulfilling a commitment made within the Social Dialogue Bureau, and we are exercising institutional responsibility, and responding to a demand from society. At the request of a group in this House, we sent the draft today as we sent it to the social partners to study it and make contributions in the form of allegations. As you can see, it is not a complex decree, it is not extensive, and its analysis does not require too much reflection if the principles of social dialogue are accepted. I would like to tell you that we have received input from the social partners and that we are analysing them and examining how to incorporate some of them into the text, and that we will have a final draft in the very near future. This decree of institutionalization in the autonomous community is a necessary instrument to consolidate the conclusion and the agreements reached and to be reached at the Social Dialogue Bureau. The aim is to ensure a stable and legal space for the participation of more representative trade unions and business organisations in the processes of drawing up and designing public policies that directly or indirectly affect the socio-occupational sphere. As reflected in the draft, the Bureau for Social Dialogue shall rule on strategic plans, departmental plans, draft laws, regulatory rules affecting labour relations, collective bargaining or any other socio-occupational nature. In this context, changes, suggestions or contributions of interest may be proposed for social actors who enrich the Government's initiatives before they are implemented. I believe that with this initiative we are making it possible to draw up shared proposals and gain in democratic quality. You've done a negative reading of the the functioning of the Bureau of the Social Dialogue and has scorned its work by categorizing it as having obtained null and void results. I do not agree with you and I will give you some examples of that importance. At the table meeting on 18 July 2017, the social partners acknowledged the commitment made at the meeting on 22 July 2016 regarding vocational training, it had been a great step forward and the possibility of reaching a broad consensus that has enabled the adoption of the Basque Vocational Training Act, and that will undoubtedly bring benefits to our society as a whole. Another example of the role played by that meeting on 22 July is that an agreement was reached on collective bargaining in which sectoral and territorial collective agreements prevailed. Finally, this agreement was signed on 17 January 2017. The inter-branch agreement also signed by trade union organizations not attending the Social Dialogue Bureau gave priority to territorial and inter-territorial collective agreements signed in Euskadi in relation to any State-level agreements that might be concluded. In my view, it is a clear case of benefits that social dialogue brings. There are no models of social dialogue opposed to each other. There is a way of understanding this, which is based above all on a principle such as prioritizing the general interests of individuals. From the Department of Labour and the Basque Government, we are committed to dialogue and consultation within bipartite institutions to advance and improve the quality of life of our citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u138	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u139	For I almost start at the end, Madam Counsellor, because you tell me that in January 2017 the structure agreement is signed, in which, by the way, as you have acknowledged, there were trade unions that are outside the Social Dialogue Bureau, and therefore do not have a direct relationship with that Social Dialogue Bureau, but even having signed in January 2017 that collective bargaining agreement, in December 2017 the results were those I told you earlier, that 20% more workers were affected by a state-level agreement and 35% less were affected by Basque-level agreements. Therefore, what shows me here are precisely the limits of certain agreements and certain attitudes which are then not matched by facts in practice. And those who do not want to develop this area of negotiation are employers. And who doesn't want to raise wages is the employer, and who needs to be pressured is the employer. Inviting you to the consensus, if you will, because the truth is that so far the fruits of this policy have been quite scarce. I know that the Socialist Party already in its congress in Suresnes abandoned that of Marxism, and you are now taking a step further by saying that consensus is the engine of history and not class struggle or confrontation. I will not enter into philosophical debates, but it is true that throughout history few gifts, on the part of the patronal few gifts, and many conquests. And conquests are achieved with struggle. And if you stand by the workers to win rights through struggle, it will be easier. If you stand beside the employer, to say that here we are all friends and that if there is no dialogue it will be because you do not find out and divide responsibilities, and it is that this union says such and this that... They mix it all in a totum revolutum Because you may not believe in certain principles of Marxism, but what I'm going to say is surprising to you, but I think there are people in the employers' office in Confebask who do. And I've already said that on some occasion, I think there's in Confebask reading Marx's books, to see if he's escaped any form of exploitation and they can apply it. Because really, if we see the results, you were talking about leadership over Europe, we lead in certain things but also in others, also in unemployment, also in temporality... And as I was telling you, with a 3% growth, that workers are losing purchasing power is simply unacceptable. It's inadmissible. And your government, which outlines 15 parliamentary challenges, because as we have told you many times, what you forget is the difficult and the important. And these are things to eat, they're things to eat the salary that goes into every house every month. And who is refusing a fair, proportional, possible and consistent increase with the evolution of the economy, who is it? Her? She's the boss, she's the boss, we're gonna call things by her name! And you obviously have to have an institutional relationship with the employer, and you look after it very well, but you also have to have an institutional relationship with the union world. I do not demand that you behave well with all the unions, because it seems complicated to me, I do not demand that you behave well, nor that you listen to all of them, because, among other things, you can say contradictory things, but I do demand that this government have relations with the unions and that it has bridges, and that it knows how to fit criticisms, and that it does not break relationships because they criticize your government, that it does not break relationships. You say you don't have pitot on the table. No, no, Workers' Commissions made a complaint to them, UGT to a government of the PSOE gets up from the table... If you don't call him pitote... And now they have hardly rebuilt, and after a whole month of meetings, summits, Lehendakari interventions, public contradictions between Mr Lehendakari and you, what have you achieved? Return to the starting point, to the exit box. And it's not that I say that there are few results, it's that the supporters of this Social Dialogue Bureau, even in the press, tell him, "The resolution of social dialogue is good news, even if preceded by the poor results offered in the recent past." This is editorialized by those who are in favour of their model of social dialogue. Even they start from the recognition that very little has been achieved. Here there are three major obstacles to making a real social dialogue, a social dialogue that solves problems. First, the framework, the legal-political framework that prevents the democratic majority in this House from being able to legislate on aspects that affect people's day-to-day lives and also labour relations. Secondly, the will, the will of this Government to develop a process of social dialogue that addresses the problems and that is truly incisive, not contemplative and complacent with whom it is generating the problems, with the employer Confebask. Thirdly, the composition of the table itself, which marginalises 60% of workers, who do not find a point of connection with the social dialogue through the formula that you propose to them and who do not even have minimally normalized relations with the government. We need a frame here, a job-related. And thus we demand: here you can decide how to work, here you can regulate. But here it is to regulate, and here to regulate, for the sake of the workingmen, for the majority. And I think that any government ought to have relations with the patrician, but he cannot continue to depend on what has hitherto been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u140	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u141	Well, Mr. Casanova, this isn't about who you want more, whether it's Dad or Mom. If there have been no problems, and there have been problems, there have been problems, but of course I believe that we are making every effort from the Government to solve them and to renew the path of social dialogue, because that is the way that, well, articulates a stable framework in which all those representative organizations of the socio-laboral world that wish to integrate. And of course, we understand, and you insist on fixing the representativeness of each trade union organization in the decree and you do not want to understand the social dialogue based on three-party agreements, and that is what must prevail. With this initiative, of course, the Government intends to give more democratic participation to its management and to the planning of its policies. In this way, the social partners will be co-participants of socio-occupational policies that are determined and this is what we will offer through that decree. I also do not know any decree, no law, that sets representations, repeat, no law, no decree. Dialogue among all and agreement that the agreement is unanimous is the key basis for social dialogue and that this dialogue is fruitful, as was the implementation of the relief contract. As I told you in my first speech, we have received those allegations to the decree, which, as you know, requires for your approval a procedural development of consultations, reports and that is what we are doing right now. You all know the allegations of some trade union organizations, because you made them public even before you sent them to the government itself. Do you really believe that these allegations made by any trade union organization are allegations to a decree, except one that is very specific? Opinions on the general policy of the Government, calling it "neo-liberal", on the need to change taxation or other issues, may be regarded as general considerations or legitimate criticisms, but they are certainly not included in the allegations of a decree that must follow an articulated and precise formulation. The consideration of the status of "more representative" or not of trade union organizations, is not the result of the improvisation or whim of this government, we simply apply articles 6 and 7 of the Organic Act on Freedom of Association. And our desire is for all the most representative trade union organizations in Euskadi to participate in the social dialogue table, and these are ELA, LAB, Commissions and UGT. Believe me, there is no reason to conclude that we violate the recognition of no majority. To the contrary, we make available to all organizations an instrument capable of agreeing on political improvements for workers and for society as a whole, which is precisely what you were claiming. And it is a matter of responsibility for each organization to participate in that table, and I speak of responsibility, as it is in other institutional bodies such as bipartisans, such as the Labour Relations Council or the Economic and Social Council, or tripartite bodies such as Lanbide or Osalan. I invite all the most representative organizations to participate in all of them, just as some who do not participate in these in the Basque area do in other higher geographical areas. And I'm finishing up. We are drafting this decree and, of course, we think that social dialogue is the key to success and improvements for all the workers who deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u142	Thank you, Mrs. San Jose. The nineteenth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalgo together of the parliamentary staff of Podemos to the Chief of Work and Justice, about the extraordinary hours of New Year's work." Hernandez jauna.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u143	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mrs. San Jose. We ask you today whether this Government, and with it your department, but not only, intend to analyse and know in depth the reality of the working days that the workers of this country are living, because we think that there is a contradiction between many of the things that your department claims and the policy that this Government is carrying out with regard to the working conditions of the workers. And I think that perhaps if you knew this reality in depth, today it would not have been so categorical at the previous point in denying the existence of class struggle. Because the class struggle – which is not going to throw stones at the boss; the class struggle is the economic, political and ideological struggle between two classes that have conflicting interests – can be easily visible on this issue of workdays. For companies, workers, we are a cost, we are an expense, and they try to minimize that cost, that expenditure, and not only in wages, but also in wages, but in a very important way, precisely, in which we work as long as possible at the lowest possible cost. And that is why there is a reality in Euskadi that does not agree with the reality of the legality of working days with the reality of the actual working days that people do in this country, and that is something that you yourself recognize, but that we then do not see concrete actions to address this reality. That's why we're asking you today if you intend to go down into the mud and get to know that tough reality that lives thousands of workers with respect to working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u144	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. San Jose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u145	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Hernández, once again your concern about the control of overtime in our community is noted, and once again I reply to you that I share your concern and I hope that we will agree on the actions necessary to make that control more effective. On this occasion, he asks me whether we in the Department of Labour and Justice intend to analyse the reality of these actual working days in our community. My answer is that we are already doing so, taking advantage of the tools we have, but, as I will explain later, we not only analyze, but we act through the transferred work inspection, to control the working hours and overtime that are carried out in our workplaces. For the general study we have the surveys carried out regularly by the Eustat or the EPA and our conclusions cannot be more robust: the Basque workers carry out an excessive number of overtime hours, exceeding the norm. And what can be more serious, many of those hours are done without the workers' desire and, in many cases, even without being remunerated. I think we will agree that this negatively affects the employment and rights of working people...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u146	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u147	The most effective measure to influence this anomaly is the control of the day, including, logically, that of overtime. The current legislation, the Workers' Statute, has some gaps in this regard, with contradictions between articles 34 and 35, and, in addition, we have the March judgment of last year's Supreme Court, which acquitted Bankia of carrying out the hourly control of its workers. In view of this situation, the right thing to do is to make the necessary regulatory changes so that there is no doubt as to the control of the day by the companies. This matter also has to be resolved in the Congress of Deputies, and in March last year a non-law proposal was adopted in that Congress which, inter alia, urged the Government of Spain to take the necessary measures to ensure the registration of the day. Today the proposal for a law presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which seeks to amend article 34 of the Workers' Statute, is pending discussion. This proposal for a law was taken into consideration in October last year and precisely on Tuesday day 2 the deadline for amendments ended. I hope that, when the debate is over, the majority will support it and that this proposed amendment will be brought to an end, and that companies will be obliged to register the day of each working person. Another of the instruments we rely on to avoid the exploitation of work that involves the uncontrollability of working hours...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u148	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u149	... are collective bargaining and the actions of the Labour Inspectorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u150	Thank you, Mrs. San Jose. Hernandez jauna.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u151	Yes, Mrs. San José, just like the other time you give me two answers. One that I consider to be throwing balls out, talking about legislation and labour regulations, where you already know that we can have points in common, and where, of course, when the party you are a part of also decides to push those changes, for surely, surely not, when they dare to repeal the latest labor reform, they will find the support of United Left and United We can. But this, on the one hand, is not only a matter of labour law, because this massive fraud that exists was also taking place before the labour reforms, the fraud of the abuse of overtime and the abuse of working hours. And on the other hand, because you or your department have a number of responsibilities. And the second type of response you give me is that they act through the Labour Inspectorate. And what we have seen through the requests for information we make to you is that you operate on an ordinary basis through the ordinary actions of the Labour Inspectorate. And what we see is that there is a powerlessness on the part of your department to address this issue. And when we have also addressed another department that would have something to say on this issue, which is the Employment issue, we are told that if we know about labour fraud we will denounce it. I hope you're not as rude as the rest of your government. But what we find is that there is no action by this Government to address this issue. That the number of Labour Inspectorate proceedings will increase by 10 or 20 will not end a problem that you yourself in this rostrum acknowledged that it is very widespread in our companies and has very serious consequences. That is why I ask you again to act, to have a plan, with objectives; that it is not simply a series of Labour Inspection actions that often do not reach the reality of companies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u152	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Madame San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u153	I assure you, Mr Hernández, that on this issue the guidelines are clear and that the transferred labour inspection keeps open two campaigns concerning working time and overtime and, in addition to worrying about these issues, any action arising from complaints about this or other causes. In the first half of the year, 10,999 of the part-time or temporary contracts have been revised, of which 4,334 have been converted into part-time or fixed-time contracts because the Inspectorate has detected breaches of the regulations. Today he will receive his written reply on the same matter before us, and allow me to inform you that the Labour Inspectorate has carried out more than 430 proceedings in respect of working time and overtime, 59 infringements having been detected and punished with EUR 66,682. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-05.u154	Thank you, Mrs. San José. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and sixteen in the afternoon.
