ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. Before we begin, I declare that the third and fifth points have been left for another purpose. First point in theme list: "Provide another proposal of the law made by the parlamentary Group of EIB on the quality of the news. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Urzuno, representative of the EH Collect Group, to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u1	Good morning, everyone. The books are abducting, the pictures are being removed from the show, the rapers are imprisoning for the sake of the other, and in that context it's terrible, it's terrible, it's terrible, it's terrible to see that EIB jumped into the whirl of censorship too. Our mission today is directed to the news from the EIB news. Nevertheless, either as to programmes or other occasions, we believe that censorship, manipulation, and instigation. Although a few years have passed, the way of proceeding in EITB has not changed much since a parliamentarian in this House, today in the Government, then in the opposition, accused those responsible for the entity, then in the Government and today also in the Government, of promoting deeply tendentious information services that do not meet the criteria of a public radio-television. We really believe that today there are also reasons to raise our voice in the face of deeply tendentious information services and that they do not meet the criteria of a public radio-television. It has been forgotten what gives legitimacy to a social role of the media, forgetting that it is not necessarily served by the information interest, but by another type of interest that disfigures the work of the media. In the same way as 5/1982 Laws in the Creation of the People's Institution, the Act of EITB must have the following fundamental criteria: objectivity of information, trueness, indifference, and respect for multiplicity. The manners and opinions of society are wholly conditioned by the manners and opinions of men. Hence it is necessary that the criteria of public communication should be prudent. We believe that plurality, equality, and equality, and such criteria as objectivity, and that any means of preserving it, and especially that the public ought to be made, and we believe that we all agree in it. Besides, they ought also to be the guardian of the right of the public to be informed. When these principles are not fulfilled, they must give up any means which may be entrusted to the individuals of the society, which will assure them not to observe and repeat them. To the populace, which is to the agents, and to judge, whether public media be published, or message; and, as has been said, they must have recourse to the means of reforming the circumstances. We make a very simple request tonight on this other proposal of the law as we have been proposing, and we do not propose any extraordinary matter. We believe that what we propose is minimum in minimum, that to demand any media is something that ought to be already exceeded. But unfortunately, we still have to do this to EIB. And it's simple, it's minimum, like I said. Just a call. Just a simple call to the EIB Manager: As long as EIB's reform lasts, the appeal is to take all the measures that must be taken to ensure the neutrality of the news. A simple call: to watch the news, to announce the news, to be news-showers to witness the reality and diversity of this people. So that it doesn't seem to be news that some of the interests, some specific political interests, are answered. Without going far away, to mention a case which has been a serious case for us, in which the principal directors of the EIB, I repeat an affair which has been a great mistake, as Mrs. Last February 23rd, the Basque Radio made a special program from the Chillkar farm. The Chiller farm, as you know, has been a scene of the interviews between Arnuldo Oro and Jesus Egigai for years, conversations which sought no other end than peace in this country. I may say, because I drew this impression, that this program contained in it a certain confession of the plan of Arnuldo Orice, and of Jesus Egguene, which might have been a confession to the work made by those two persons, or to the essay. On the other hand, as long as this radio emission is in the morning, we pass to an activity that is extremely partial to the social function of extension, informative, objective, and social. It goes from an informational exercise, objective, more in line with the social function of a means of public communication and the times we live, to a partial exercise, biased, more typical of El Gato al Agua in which it is intended to carry with all the past in one of the parts. It happens in a newscast in which the presenter takes the pleasure of making assessments of part, that far from contributing anything from the informative point of view, they intend to create opinions with comments of no informative value and a lot of intentionality. A lot of intentionality that is totally out of place in a newscast of a public medium and in which it is the presenter who takes the opportunity to make such comments; a judgment evaluation that in any case would be the responsibility of the viewers to do so. The media can show a biased image of society and its values, or be the reflection of the plurality in it. EITB, in our view, should fight daily for the defense of pluralism. As the Director of Iturbe said, this event was a mistake by the Administration Council. But in our opinion, I repeat, they are defects that are often repeated too often. There will soon be another mistake, and it may be admitted that there has been a mistake, but there will be no guarantee, no measure will be made to prevent such mistakes being repeated, since no one cares to finish them. This is very serious for us. It seems as if in this house the ends, the priorities, and the latter have been reversed. EIB's prestige, the quality of EIB, censorship, instruction, and such accounts have been placed on the second level, and the first step is to answer certain specific political interests. And if this is done, the others seem not to be so important. But this is the case with the prestige of EIB, in which the quality of EIB stands, the independence of EITB, the neutrality and objectivity of EITB. But I repeat, this is not so much to the political authorities of EIB, if they answer their interests, as to their interests. So, as I've said, we're asking for guarantees that these things don't happen today. We don't think it's much to ask. We ourselves have nothing beyond our own law to propose anything extraordinary. We could ask for a professional career in EIB. We've been doing that, too, and this Chamber has thrown back our initiative. We could plan other measures, and we'll be sure we'll do it again, and we'll do it later on, we're also working on this form of EIB's reform. But at this moment, a call, a simple call, a attention, a simple attention, please, let us reserve the quality of the news. As the news, like EIB himself, is a public extension, it must answer to this people, what is going on in this country, to the reality of this people, in order to be a part or other part of the government. It's not a partial instrument, it's a public media. So again, we don't think it's much to ask. Let's take care of EIB's news, take measures, such as often happen, so that it doesn't happen any more. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u2	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u3	Good morning, everyone. The head of the table, members of the legislature. First of all, I'd like to say today that women in the Podemos are planning together. They join the women of the world to accuse and compromise the racialist and heterriarchic system. Because of poachers and feminists, during 364 days of year, they work hard in the legislature and in several institutions to get equality and to end violence with the machista. In this way, in the assembly of the whole legislature, and in the commissions, they have succeeded in placing the rights and equality of women in the centre of all discussions. The team has filed the measurements for different areas, the budgets, the self-organization, the return equality... And on March 9th, they will continue to work, so that the voices of the Basque women and of feminist movements can be heard every day in the legislature. Today women are stopping the world. They have driven unprecedented unemployment and mobilization in history, once again overflowing with known and traditional forms of demand and proposal. Having said that, it would be up to Eukene Arana to defend this proposal, but he will not do so because he has joined this strike in defence of women's rights and demands. But, if we go to the point, I would like to start by pointing out that when we address the issue of EITB's information, this involves talking about the role that this entity has as a public service, a function that is reflected both in the EITB Act and in the contract-programme. Indeed, one of these, of the most important, functions is to offer objectivity, veracity and impartiality in the information, something that, today, and for some time now is not being fulfilled. In other words, EITB today does not effectively carry out its public service mission. Nor, of course, on many other issues, although we do not address them today, issues that have made us, for example, to raise the need for the resignation of her director last week. We are surprised by the EITB management's method of stating, on the other hand, that it fulfils this commitment. They measure their success or the fulfilment of their commitment to the criteria of objectivity, veracity and impartiality through broadcast hours, an indicator that we find curious. As thousands of hours a year of information spaces are broadcast, according to the EITB Directorate, this is the guarantee that their contents are objective, truthful and impartial. And we have already commented once that this is a matter of first sociology. Measuring a qualitative variable, such as impartiality, as objectivity, with quantitative indicators – hours of emission – is altogether insufficient, as well as ridiculous. Not only that, but some studies have been published in recent years on EITB information, making measurements of its contents and analysis of them, and the main conclusions in these reports are that they are informative with a majority percentage of political information, which is also extendable to programmes where opinions are mixed with information, that is, tertullies, also information spaces which occupy a large part of EITB's grill, in which information devoted to the government is absolutely majority: activities of the lehendakari, declarations, acts of their departments, presentation of plans, etc. The treatment favorable to all of them, to all of them, is evident, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Another important percentage of this information is taken away and is devoted to the business world, not to say directly to large companies, with an approach that is always proposed with a positive approach. Critical news that is linked, for example, to non-compliance with environmental regulations shines out of their absence. The approach is always positive. What remains for the rest of the political actors, trade unions, political parties, social movements? For, generally, a subaltern space or, on many occasions, no space. What space do women have in general information and especially in sports? On most occasions little or no, as is the case with sports information. When an expert opinion is required, it is men who appear, almost never women. What space and treatment do minorities receive? Minimal and with frankly worrying approaches, and I also believe that we have experienced this in recent weeks, generally linked to information on crimes and social conflicts. That is the image presented by our public television of minorities. We're talking about impartiality. When we talk about marketing campaigns or the announcement of plans, information spaces that give voice to civil society are also often absent. On many occasions we are blushing, contemplating a government report in the form of an informative chronicle. Is there no one, no social worker in the country who has anything to say about it? Well, it seems that most of the time there isn't. But today, of course, we do not want to transfer a negative image of the entity's professionals, we also urge here to make a closed defense of the journalistic profession. We are all aware that those who decide what it is about in the news with this peculiar system of managers and through outsourcings, are not the ones who should do so, under the criteria of objectivity, impartiality and veracity, without pressure or guardianship of any kind. We have long been arguing in this House that EITB does not meet the standards for the public service mission. As far as information is concerned, there are many models of good practice that we can look at and draw inspiration from. It's not that hard. The aim is to ensure that editorial advice is provided by the professionals of the house, that they do their job and that they can do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u4	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u5	Thank you, President. Well, as my group's leader in establishing a position on EITB is Rafaela Romero, who, like the rest of my colleagues, has decided to support the strike called around the world in defense of women's full equality. They do so for all those who do not even have the right to strike, because they access the most precarious jobs and because they remain the weakest part of society. Parliamentarians have decided today, those who have wanted, to go to that strike and all have been able to make that decision with a freedom that unfortunately lacks an important part of society, which is what we are trying to make visible today, and it has been the will of those who have organized this mobilization that we are the men who deal with what they usually do, both inside and outside the home, also in this Parliament. The Members of my group who are here respond to that will and join the same demand from those who are not in Parliament today. And, referring to the matter we are dealing with at this point, it is true, I do not carry this matter, but I am a spectator. I also see from time to time ETB and I have to say that I don't like what I see very much either, that I don't think the positions of the whole world are well reflected, even sometimes not reflected. Please note that when I started preparing this debate on Monday, one of the news of the day in ETB was the unanimous pact for security in Bilbao and in Teleberri exactly voiced all the City Council parties except mine. What are we going to do to him? What for some is government excess to us is supposed to subsume us into governments and not be heard from us. But I think that this information proposal, unfortunately, does not interest the majority of citizens; despite the leadership of ETB's information, they are mostly choosing other channels to be aware of the information. What seems surprising to me with this initiative is who raises it and what it usually says when others point to defects. It is surprising that in this Parliament, when in this or other legislatures it has been criticized that, for example, from home programs it has been insulted to those who feel Spanish, you appeal to professionalism; that when it has been accused of issuing a program that talks about prisoners of ETA or their families and omits the cause for which those people are in prison, you appeal to professionalism. That when more attention has been asked for social content in information, instead of turning everything around on the problems of Catalan independenceists, you appeal to professionalism. And what is surprising is that you have rescued initiatives like this from your wardrobe fund, which is from May last year, in order to pretend to appear a demanding speech towards ETB because you come out less than the government, complains that you did not have, for example, when the deputy general of Gipuzkoa was of your party. What we see on television is that you go out and all the groups and associations that support exactly the same thesis as you, that others, in that over-minute we have, we appear for objective informational reasons, as they may have been internal problems, but our own positions, our initiatives do not have that echo that you do achieve. But that's not new either. My comrades have said that on other occasions. Several weeks ago, the groups in this House decided to ask the Board's Directorate for a monthly relationship with the time we each occupy in the information spaces. We did it by believing that it could be a good way to measure balance and plurality, and time has been showing that it was an inadequate measurement, so I just said, because it is not just about the second ones you occupy, but about what it is about: the meaning of the words that have been selected, the themes for which we can be asked or not an evaluation. But I think EH Bildu has an interesting trajectory of asking for information and explanations about how they treat their information. Not about how plurality is guaranteed. You said something else here today. Which leads us to deduce that they are more interested than information independence, in pro-independence information, which is something very different. If what you want to talk about is informational independence, I'm sure we can find each other. I'll tell you more. Just three years ago my party presented a proposal in this Parliament to change the EITB throughout its structure, which was then rejected, and whose need is already shared by all the groups, who are working on it in the paper. And since we do not believe that independence is about getting us more or less handsome, we talk about the things that are in the background, such as the development of the professional career, so that it is a reality that guarantees a continuous line of independence, from the managerial or managerial sphere to direct communication. We do believe that professionalism guarantees independence and plurality, and that is what we come to defend today: support for the work decided unanimously by this House for the comprehensive reform that makes it possible and an assessment of how citizens perceive that plurality through the sociometer, which I believe is something in which the paper is in. There it would be good to ask the citizenry if it perceives the television closest to nationalism, if it sees it fully independent or, if you want, it seems to them that it is too Spanishist, and know what people think. Meanwhile, as that reform ends, as a socialist and as a spectator, I hope that in the spaces of the house we will have the opportunity not only to add minutes of one another, but that we will all be reflected in positions and assessments. Not for us, for those of us on TV, but for those of us who believe they see TV, for citizens, who are plural and need reasons to truly and fully recognize themselves on our public radio-television.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u6	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mrs. Oregi, the word is yours. Mr. FRAMEUR-ESCURO, ISUSI: Good morning. We discussed a proposition like this year and a half ago. Those who introduce it are accused of subjectivity on the EIB news. They do not realize that their proposition is really subjective, because it is not based on any data. We have the data that proves the radio objectivity of the Basque Radio. We find it a little serious to go out to the rostrum talking and accusing EITB of alleged lack of informational objectivity when no data is provided, when this qualitative opinion does not have quantitative data behind it that they can say yes or no. Mr Urruzuno has given us a kind of general theory of information, which we appreciate, very subjective, and has simply set two examples, two cases, which EITB has recognized as a mistake. But given that the issue is over 100 hours a day, two cases in one year seem to us to be a fairly acceptable margin of error. And it seems to us serious for a simple reason. Because when we talk about the lack of objectivity of EITB, we are not talking about the lack of objectivity of its Management. We are talking, in theory, about the lack of objectivity of the more than 300 journalists and editors who make up ETB, Radio Euskadi, Euskadi Irratia, Internet and Radio Vitoria. And we think it's a pretty, pretty strong accusation. Also, as a result, we are talking about the listeners. Of course, because if we say that EITB has information that is not objective, and we have to recognize that EITB group information is leaders in listeners and viewers, obviously something fails. That is, the editors are not objective, the spectators swallow with everything they throw at him. Something's wrong. And what is wrong is that in his two proposals he was simply talking about subjective opinions and did not materialize that opinion with figures, which is what I bring here today. The objectivity in information is almost like the sex of angels. That's one thing no one has seen, that everyone ignores and that's there in a cloud. And objectivity is something that everyone aspires to get, but not even the BBC can get, despite that aura that has an integral and objective public broadcast. I have other data groups to try to convince them that what they have proposed to us has no meaning whatsoever and does not meet the truth much. The first fact is that of the Editorial Board. Mr Martínez, there is a Drafting Board, there is a drafting statute that has been working for a long time, and I will simply read you two articles so that you see that the appointment of the information officers in EITB is not the index finger of the Director General who sits on a person's head, not that, obviously goes through a writing screen. "Article 57: You must be a professional person of prestige with accredited experience and preferably with knowledge of the environment." "Article 65: The Directorate shall communicate confidentially to its respective editorial boards the proposal of the Chief Information Officer before notifying the Management Board." "Article 66: The Editorial Board – the journalists of the public body – shall issue a non-binding report on the proposal within seven days." Finally, all the appointments of directors, chiefs, editors of the EITB media have met the requirements of consultation with the Editorial Board without ever having any reservation of this body to materialize the appointment. That is to say, those responsible for the information in EITB are not a direct appointment of the Directorate, it is the agency's own journalists, I insist, more than 300 meeting in the Editorial Board, who have the right of veto, who can say yes, no. And so far the proposals of the Directorate have been accepted and welcomed by the Drafting Council and the Directorate, in turn, has obviously appointed the people that the Drafting Council said. This is the first battery of data, that is, these are data, we cannot talk, Mr Martínez, about the Editorial Board when we know it exists. Why are we going to name another one if it exists? Why are we going to appoint a new Drafting Statute if it also exists and it seems that the stakeholders, who are EITB's communication professionals, are fully in agreement with its operation? Second battery of data to prove that you have spoken today with much subjectivity and with little wast, as we would say in Bilbao, with little objectivity. The audience data. EITB has to fight against almost monopolistic groups every day, as they can be on A3Media and Mediaset television, and as they can be on radio channels with an implementation and with a budget that obviously multiply with several zeros that of Radio Euskadi and that of Euskadi Irratia. And yet, in the General Media Survey last year, the news media Gaur Egun and Teleberri reached 432,000 people, with a market share of 20.5 %, that is, the fifth part of the audience in Basquedi in news media saw it through EITB. The radio generalist, Radio Euskadi, Euskadi Irratia and Radio Vitoria, had at their time of information from 6 to 12 noon 219,000 listeners, with a market share of 38,6 %. And the Internet users who entered the Internet for information topics were 2,163,404 for each month in the year 17 and this year in the year 18, what we have been doing for the year, this figure has risen to 2,323,280 people. With this I want to say that if so many listeners and so many Basques of any political furry when it comes to informing themselves want to listen to the EITB radios and want to see EITB, for something it will be. I mean, I, if everyone thought like you two that the information is nothing objective, would obviously opt for another type of radio station or another type of television. I believe that this must be defended with data, and I believe that this data does defend our thesis that the information in EITB is obviously objective and that it cannot be accused with such joy and subjectivity of a lack of objectivity to the information on our Basque public television. And finally, the last group of data, to which Mr Pastor I believe he has made a brief reference, is that, as you will know every month EITB sends to the Basque Parliament a detailed list of the minutes; it is a quantitative criterion but also has its own... And in that view, the Socialist Party I think it comes out almost at the same time, by Elkarrekin We can also come out perhaps at the same time but, oh surprise, I think Bildu was saying something like that and accusing EITB of trying very well not only the Basque Government but the party that supports it. I have studied last year's reports, but here I have three on the road, January, June and December of the 17th, and what you see is quite the opposite of what you say. That is to say, here is a comparison of each political party: what voting quota it has, and then what quota, what percentage of antenna time it has, a little bit to see if there is proportionality between the political representation and what EITB grants them. The PNV has 37.60 of the votes, as the average time in EITB in news reports does not reach 15. I mean, under 40 of what you might theoretically be entitled to. Elkarrekin We can almost date, months yes, months no. The PSOE has also said this, and the PP also doubles, i.e. the PP has a 10.18% representation in votes, and yet the average comes out to them somewhat as well as 20% of the time in news. That is, the PP is being given twice as much time as it would theoretically deserve for its number of votes. And then the surprise comes when Bildu, who says that the news feeds favor the PNV, we realize that in all the months of the year – here we have a sum of television and radio – that Bildu, who has 21-26 % of the votes and reaches almost 30 % of the time in antenna; that is, he has 50 % more time than would theoretically correspond directly to his number of votes. I have this data. I believe that you have given absolutely no objective or quantitative data, you have limited yourselves to thinking and deliberating and giving information theory lessons, but I believe that the data are for something. I trust the report that the EITB Group's Directorate makes monthly and, I repeat, the PNV has 50 % of the time it would have for its political representation, Bildu has 50 % more than it would have, the PP has 100 % more than it would have and the PSOE and Elkarrekin Podemos, with this data in hand, more or less one point up one point down, but almost in direct proportion. So, I encourage you that when you present these kinds of proposals, because every year there is a similar one, it is a business thing, because they arm themselves with some more data, that they bring some more figure, that they support what in theory has not ceased to be a very biased, very subjective opinion in their words, but they have not supported it with any kind of figures and say that the information on a public television is not objective can be said, it is free, but what needs to be done is to demonstrate it with data, facts and figures, and that is what I have missed in your speech. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. The next round of the rebel team, Mrs. Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'm the first woman to speak in this plenary today and I want to start by claiming this day. We, the Members of the People's Group, have preferred to claim this day by making our voice heard in this Parliament, and in fact the two representatives of the People's Group who are going to intervene in this plenary are women. Respecting the position and decisions made by women from other groups, we want – as I say – to claim that we are working this day, because we believe that a long way has been taken but that there is still a great deal to be done. We have achieved a lot, but there is still a lot of work to achieve full equality, to break that glass ceiling, to end the wage gap, to achieve full equalization in all areas of work, culture and politics. It is a work of all but also of all. It must be a shared goal, and I believe that all those who have made strike today and those who are here have the same objectives: full and effective equality between men and women. We have chosen here today to claim that real equality which belongs to the whole of society, which is born from education and must be above political ideas. I shall now turn to this point. And again this week we're talking and discussing EITB. An EITB in which its policy makers consider that 70% of the targets have been met, despite the fact that we are faced with the worst results of its history; an EITB in which its management team considers that there is a strong connection with the citizenry. But we see that, for example, between Basque citizens, the audience is only 2%, even though it does not have direct competence. A management team that lives in self-congratulation and does not hesitate to charge against the opposition, against the private media cannibals that put their brilliant work at the head of the entity in sulfation. They're not to blame. It is the opposition, the budget cuts and the private media who are to blame. As Mr Urruzuno has said, the law on the creation of the entity includes as principles objectivity, veracity and impartiality in the information, as well as the distinction and separation between information and opinion. Do they really want us to believe that those goals are being met in EITB? In addition to teleberris, there are the rest of the information programs. Are we really facing an objective and impartial means? Is it really different between information and opinion? Well, honestly, we don't think so. It has been pointed out here and on other occasions, both by this group and by other groups, that EITB is instrumentalized. It is a means at the service of a concrete political positioning, for specific purposes, one more general at the service of nationalist ideology, and another more particular, the service of ruling nationalism. And, therefore, the information is used for a very specific purpose: propaganda. The teleberris, I have said on occasion, often seem like a node of the government. Continued government reporting. The councillors and the Government appear on the smallest issues. News from groups outside the Government, the opposition, has a much lower housing. The reason is clear, the news is not meant to report, but, as I say, the continuous autobomb. The sale of a wonderful country where nothing ever happens. And if it does, it's Madrid's fault. But whose fault is it that you're late for the news? For example, EITB was late for the Bermeo fire in 2013. Or he was late for the Paris bombings in 2015, having a correspondent in Paris and another in Bayona. Why is it late for the news when it happens between 10 o'clock in the night and 8 o'clock in the morning? Why are we the only generalist chain that we don't have a morning briefing that would help us get off not at technical zero, as we do on many occasions at certain hours, but with a greater audience? Why with the many good professionals... But not only now, Mr Ramirez, at the time that the Socialist Party was ruling as well, and you were criticising him. With the many good professionals we have in the house, why do we like hiring external media, external programs so much? Programmes in which their removal from objective positions is also clear. As was said here, information and opinion are mixed. These programs are also news reports, but now in favor of another positioning. Not that of giving the Government a bow, but a crude political instrumentization in favour of nationalism and independence. And we've seen it, I wanted examples, I give you examples, Mr. Ramirez. We have seen this with the Catalan process, quantitatively and qualitatively, the treatment of ITBE has been absolutely disproportionate. Quantitatively, there is talk of a shortage of resources. You have said that there is a shortage of resources, and there have been considerable expenses to make special programmes and to send special envoys to Catalonia. And, qualitatively, the information has not been objective at all. It has been at the service of the process, EITB has acted as a TV3 branch showing profusion images of independenceists and silenced images of those who were in favor of continuing in Spain and Europe. From EITB it is a question of feeding, hoarseness, insuffering that feeling of independence from the Basques, and doing so at a time – and I have said it on other occasions – when that feeling is lower. Because what he does is not inform, what he does EITB and what he has done with Catalonia has been indoctrination. Nor is the treatment of certain issues such as corruption objective and truthful. What difference, right?, if corruption happens from the Ebro up or from the Ebro down. Do you remember that tunnel that appears in the movie "8 Basque surnames", in which time changes radically when you enter and when you leave? That is what happens with corruption and the treatment of corruption in EITB. From the entrance of the tunnel a treatment, from those of the exit of the tunnel a completely different treatment. And here's another example, Mr. Ramirez. Michael's case. Cases of charges and activists of the Basque Nationalist Party involved in extortions and bites. On March 5, she declared the star witness on many of those cannibal newspapers, as the director of EITB, Mrs. Iturbe, calls her. What has been the treatment in EITB? Teleberri : two and a half minutes, Teleberri 1 ; Teleberri 2, two minutes. Gaur egun, three minutes. Jake: 13 minutes, 30 seconds. What's going on, three minutes. I don't even want to tell you what the treatments of other types of corruption have been. As the twitter account La Mamba Negra says, which I quote to you to recognize your copyright and because, in addition, it seems very accurate to me, there was a class, an example of a manual of how to hide the case of Michael without blushing. The day after that day that I'm telling you in In Jake is dedicated, before 12 in addition, which is the stage in which you have the least audience, 19 minutes to the case of Michael and then a summary of a minute at the end of the program. In the middle of the 25 minutes of Camps' statement in Congress. That's objectivity, isn't it? What was the closest thing? What was the corruption that in theory should be most interesting, today the Basques are more interested? Which one is it? So, what audiences do you have? You talked about the hearings, because I'm going to tell you Tuesday's, for example. ETB3 0.3%, the last child chain; ETB2, 9.3; ETB1, 1.1 audience, the fifteenth Basque chain. And these last hearings, those of ETB1, are the ones that should be most concerned with the management of the entity, because it has no competence, because its information has no competence, because its programmes do not have competence, because it is the only Euskaldun chain and because, moreover, it does not make those gestures, it is the truth, it has no competence. Which chains are Euskaldunes? And with that we have a 1% audience and we are absolutely satisfied, if that is not self-congratulation, come on, God come and see him. Because in Monday's appearance, where a master class was given, I came to sell my book and answer if for another day, because none of the questions that the opposition asked him were answered, we were wanted to sell as an achievement the increase of the audiences in 2017, which are laughing, but it is that 2017 was the second worst year in the history of EITB, the previous one had been 2016. What's the reason? It's an absolutely structural reason. Firstly, it is a television without dynamism, without originality, which is limited to copying the formats of other channels and does not turn into what should be their object, which is local information; and secondly, because their management team, by the way, reprobated in this House, is a team, as I say, that lives on continuous self-completion, without push and without initiative. Until we do, as we are doing, an integral approach and a comprehensive solution for ETB, structural problems can be solved, with which I agree, because we must not forget that 90% of those almost 140 million EITB budgets are paid by all Basques and all Basques with their taxes. And we agree with the initiative. Perhaps, Mr Urruzuno, as you have been told here, the concept of objectivity and plurality that your group has and that which we have in our group will be quite different, but following what the initiative says, which is to achieve objectivity and work for the objectivity of EITB's media, we agree. What is strange to me and what I regret, Mr Urruzuno, is that you have brought this initiative here today knowing that it is going to be lost.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u9	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing by the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Urruzuno, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u10	A ver, to start somewhere. To the orators of PSE and PNV: I do not know, I think you have made a speech, and it is very well to do it; but it is not suitable either to our enterprise, or to the parameters which our enterprise has disputed. I do not think that any one here has here set up a dispute, that is to say, we are many, much less, we have brought no such dispute about it, and you have made a dispute about it. We could talk about that, too, we have the EIB star that comes out every day. Then, if you want to talk about it, we could talk about it, but it wasn't our goal today. We spoke to-day, and I want to answer Mrs. Llanos also, that when she says that we do not all understand the same thing, we shall probably not understand the same thing. But here in our enterprise we are no longer speaking of what political parties may call their political position, or of what may be their discourse, or of what may be their relativity. We are speaking of the social function of a public media, of which we are discussing the manner in which this principle is established in a public extension. I've only given a first piece of information and Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero said to me, "not even a date can go far." We brought one last one. If this subject were to repeat next week on this Pleno, we could probably get another one. We've repeated one and, as I've repeated it, I'm not saying our version of EIB, our message, which would have to play our relatal. Besides this, political parties may have, besides political positions, how a public extension prevails and is placed above all. And Mr. Pastor used to say "sprendent." Surprising is yours, Mr. Pastor. I mean, I could have brought here today excerpts from speeches from your colleague from the last legislature, Mr Unzalu, and I'm not going to do it, because it's already been a classic, it's already losing its grace, too. See, I'm asking you what's changed in EITB. No, not what has changed in the Socialist Party. We already know that; what has changed in EITB: to move from a strategy of harassment and overthrowing EITB, to say that everything flows like, "be water, my friend". Of course, we are talking about what is happening in EITB, not what we are talking about in the Socialist Group. You also mentioned the career. You voted for professional careers with Social Party, and today you voted negative, and today you brought it here on the 6th of June, 2016, on account of a PNNL of the Basque People, and the professional career that gathered the Basque People in that PNL. And you voted down and introduced the same middle way you brought here today. And that middle-class isn't a professional career at all, even if you wanted to make a make-up. It's not a professional career. In order that your enterprise may be a professional career, at least it lacks at least two words, two distinct concepts: one is objectivity, that is, how we evaluate a person's capacity for certain posts, an objective test which is a witness according to his standards and powers, and the other concept is equality, namely, equality, which everyone ought to have, in order to go to that place or to that test. These two words fail them. So yours isn't a professional career. Your today's initiative, your middle course today says, "Let's continue as we've been doing." And how do we go on or how does it usually go on in EIB until now? Ba Ramírez-Escuderok eman du piste bat...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u11	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u12	Yes, I'll finish it now. The finger comes out and someone says, "You editor, the newsmaster." That's how you work in EIB. And if you like, I also say this to Mrs. Llanos, we have another initiative already registered, which belongs to the professional career. Maybe we'll bring him in and see how each person settles in accordance with that. But today, the Jeltarian Party and the Sociistic Party initiative they've brought, it's certainly not a career. I repeat, this is what I have hitherto done, a method of continuing as usual. And that's where I'm involved in the social position of the Social Party. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u13	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Together, Mr. Lander Martíne is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u14	Well, where to start, like we've been told a lot of things. A point on the audience. When we talk about using qualitative variables when it comes to measuring things, it may be necessary to think that, for example, people are interested in EITB because it offers local information and because people are interested in seeing the issues that happen in their villages, in their cities, in the Basque Country in general, not only because the information is of quality. With regard to the measurement of objectivity, you said, Mr Ramírez-Escudero, that it is a mysterious cloud. No, no, Objectivity is not a mysterious cloud. There are variables, indicators, different types of studies, different places from which you can take example to measure objectivity. I do not tell you that 100% of objectivity is going to be measured, but of course there are variables to measure objectivity, they are qualitative and do not leave objectivity to the discretion of the person making the assessments or in a mysterious cloud. It's not a mysterious cloud. When we talked about the Editorial Board, you read me some articles. I am not going to repeat something that Mr Urruzuno has already described in the previous speech, but those articles are not being complied with. And I also ask you a question that I would like you to answer in your next speech. What role do managers have in all this? Answer us. What role do managers have in the structure of EITB and in the content of information, so that we know here how it works in that writing. Not only that, but if we go beyond the informative ones, which are purely the informative ones of EITB, Teleberri and those of the radios, there are also, as we have said before, spaces of political information that are mixed with opinion, of tertulia, which, moreover, are generally managed by external producers. Where do these producers account? Who's calling these people to account? Who evaluates the content of what is said in these programs? They give information, they are informative, they give political information. Where do you realize this? With the number of hours that fill in EITB this type of programs and are all outsourced. What kind of public service is that? And another day, if you like, we talk about the minutage, which I see you are very concerned about and it is true that today we have not come here to talk about the quotas or the minutages. I was curious that when you talk about your party you do not include the government's quota and say that you have 15% and forget what the government has to say. But without going any further. If you want to one day we come here, we talk, we take those objective data that you have raised. He has told us that we are on the same page, not to comment much because you know what the data is and if you want to bring it here, let everyone know what minutes each political party has, but I will set an example. Our deputies in the Congress of Deputies, the Basque deputies, being the first force in the elections to Congress twice, neither appear in the EITB news, nor appear. The first force in the General Elections in the Congress of Deputies does not appear in the EITB news. That's for example. Finally, as regards the measurement of the objective and subjective quality and information of EITB. It is not the minutes that we appear or that we stop appearing or that the different political parties appear. This is the informational treatment given to you, not just the minutes, but the informational treatment given to you. And here I'm going to give you a very graphic example. You have spoken 10 minutes earlier, you have obviously been subjective and you have put forward a position of some sort, as is yours as the spokesman for a political party. But if I take as an indicator the minutes you have spoken and the audience you have attended, I cannot know whether I can measure the quality or objectivity of your intervention. With this data I cannot measure neither the quality nor the objectivity of his intervention, that is what is presented to us in EITB, the minutes are presented to us, the audience is presented to us, the hour of broadcast is presented to us, and it is assumed that this meets the criteria of impartiality, veracity and objectivity that are assumed to be informative. Therefore, stop thinking of EITB as a company, think of it as a public service that is what it is, and in the end we will get a decent public television, as it is due and as it deserves Basque citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u15	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u16	Look, Mr Urruzuno, we didn't like the previous legislature, nor the previous one, how EITB worked, and we still don't like how it works now, I told you. That is why we have been striving since the start of this parliamentary term to bet on a structural and comprehensive reform of the EITB, which was rejected by this Parliament in the previous parliamentary term. And I want to remind you that we went hand in hand with you in the previous legislature during an important part of the journey until you, oh surprise, decided to switch partners. You will explain why you made that change and that turn, but you did, you don't know why. In any case, our commitment is to continue working to make this model change happen, because we believe that the current leadership and the current council are in an interim situation until the reform to which we are committed and in which we work in the paper is made, so that the professionals of the house can truly bet on plurality without interference by anyone. That is what we call for at each meeting of the presentation and at each Governing Board that is held. And we bet on something that seems to us to be much more important, this government today does not have an absolute majority to propose a new director, and it doesn't seem bad to us, it seems to us that to choose a new director and a new council would require qualified majorities with a broad prior consensus, and a duration that goes beyond the scope of the legislature so that it is not subject to the political wave or political sympathy of the moment. And we are so convinced that we were the only group, that since the General Policy Plenary we have set this reform as one of the unavoidable tasks of this course to achieve more transparent and less politicized governance. What are we waiting for now? That the management criticisms that we have also made are taken into consideration by this interim leadership as contributions to improve, but we also hope that no one will use this excuse to block the reform that is essential for us to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u17	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Euzko Abertzaleak, Ramírez-Escudero jauna, zurea of the hitza. RAMÍREZ-SCUDERO ISUSI jaunak: I would simply ask Elkarrekin Podemos, PP and Bildu not to play journalists, let journalists self-administer information, appointments, etc. This is like football, it is very easy to know more than the coach, it is very easy to see an informative and say "I would have started with another news". But we must also put ourselves in the flesh and skin of those who are half an hour ahead of the news, who are in front of the stopover and who have to decide the priority order of the news, which one leads the news, which one has the most time, which one has the least time... And then there are logical things, that is, Mrs. Llanos quoted the example of Catalonia. I have another example with which I destroy your argument. The Sixth, which is not suspicious of being a Catalan independenceist, apart from the fact that its main shareholder, Mr Roures, has what it has, but the Sixth as such is a centralist station. He devoted a lot more time than ETB to Catalonia, why? Because Catalonia at that time, at that time and it was still the information axis that interested all people. Then we will have to see if they passed, if they did not pass but, come on, ETB devoted time yes, but The Sixth much more, and I insist, The Sixth had no interest in Catalonia being independent, and was every day doing all the programs live, why? Because I was interested in the audience. And here we go into what Mr Martínez also said about quality and objectivity, which are very difficult to measure. On the subject of Catalonia, Mrs. Llanos thinks that ETB2 threw the house out the window, I think it responded to what the newsmen thought was of interest to the listeners. But, you see, of the same fact completely different opinions. Why did I bring data? Because I believe that numerical data can be the most adorned in this debate. Quality and objectivity are concepts, not a cloud, but they are very subjective, very elastic concepts with which we will never agree and in which there will never be a meter or a concept that can say whether quality is or is not, whether objectivity is or is not. Time can do it. With regard to time, the other day, not without a certain mood, Mr Estarrona was saying on Monday in the EITB Commission, that he was tired of seeing how the Health Sailburu opened mammographs. Is there as much mammograph in Euskadi as it is every day? Look, the Basque government is an active government. It is a government that invests, it is a government that opens every afternoon, visits factories, and obviously the editors have to talk about what the Basque Government does. Of course, parties that do not have any deputies, no municipalities in the major cities, no Basque Government, obviously have much less chance of being in the air. Why? Of course, because who is in charge in the end, who is in the end the one who imposes his information policy? The one who invests, the one who inaugurates, and that belongs to the Basque Government. I have left the data up there, but it also appears in the quantitative data sent to us by the EITB Directorate every month: what is dedicated to the Basque Government and what is dedicated to the central Government. And it's usually double, I mean, it doesn't look like me either... That perhaps the Madrid Government is overvalued, that it has as much as half the time that the Basque Government has on a daily basis. Mrs. Llanos, I quality and objectivity... I cannot accept lessons from a person who represents a party that has been carrying out the policy he took in Madrid and in Valencian Radio Television. Man, after those two cases, don't you come to give us lessons in objectivity, because I would, perhaps, be a little embarrassed by others. And nothing else. Simply repeat what I said before, data, data and data. Here you can come to elucidate, you can come to talk about poetry, but if we come to talk about something that we think is not well done, you have to arm the speech with data, because if it is not objectivity, we can talk about what it takes, but all those subjective thoughts, all those disqualifications that, I insist, also have to repeat this, they are not disqualifications to an entity, they are disqualifications to 300 people who work there every day and are represented on a Editorial Board. You were talking about managers, managers are one more step in the chain of command of information. When I was studying journalism in the 1970s, one thing was inaugurated that seemed to us to be the no more goes, that was, the Society of Writing of the Journal Le Monde. Until then, there was a newspaper owner, the director and the slaves, and from there, journalists were already introduced into the management and opinion and even in the newspaper's editorial. That's what we have today in EITB. So, what are we gonna do now? After that has been achieved, dismantle it? What is the alternative to the Editorial Board? If you have any, plant it, but I don't think it's going to be objective or improveable. And then, what I said at first, let's let the journalists do their job. We don't want to play either editorialists, chief editors, or directors, which is very easy, but it's very impractical. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u18	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u19	Thank you again, Madam President, and thank you, Mr Ramírez. You have corroborated what I was saying in my speech. Why don't we go out, Mr. Martinez, Mr. Urruzuno, why don't we go out? Because we don't rule. Who's going out? The one who rules. What is ETB? What are ETB information services? An instrument at the service of the Government. Those of us who don't rule, ah, sit down, don't go out. You've made it clear and meridian. Thank you so much. Come on, after your speech, it is clear to us who comes out and what the information is for. And you talk about the professionalism of EITB and the professionals of EITB, and at the time of Mr.Surius, where were you? Did all the professionals take over? Were they all on strike? You sent a letter of complaint to EITB about the treatment, as the Basque Nationalist Party. Then we would have to send more letters than to the Magic Kings or the Olentzero, choose whoever you want. Because the treatment given to him... You talk about minutes. If it's for the minutes they devote to the People's Party, the rest complain, because we're overrepresented, because the news, the bad, all, always. And I'm going to give you an example, you say "data." I'll give you an example. I gave a press conference to present an initiative that we were going to present in this Parliament. An EITB journalist asked me a question about Barcenas. What's out? The Barcenes question. Now, if I get to talk about the Miguel case... Even if I say so, I won't ask myself. And that wants to make me see that it's objectivity. And you use the law of the funnel, the same law of the funnel that uses the EITB address that are the hearings. Quantitative and qualitative justification of the treatment of Catalonia, the hearings. It's just that they gave a lot of audience. Man, you found your great private brother at the time when Big Brother had an audience, because those dots, those tenths that have gone up, have been for Catalonia. And then, of course, we have to spend and we have to give Catalonia programs and hours and hours because it has an audience and then it is already justified. Now, other programs that don't have an audience? It's okay. They do not withdraw and the next time they hire the producer who does, because in that case nothing happens to the audience, it is not an objective data. What are we left with? The audience is good when you want and the audience is bad or it is not something to take into account when you are not interested. And they talk about measuring, but if the fulfillment of their commitment – and I put in quotes the commitment, because we go... – with the delegitimization of terrorism in the news that is being given... And when I asked what was included in that story, they were talking about Catalonia. It included news about Catalonia, which will have to do with the delegitimization of terrorism and peace and coexistence. Well, that's how you value the fulfillment of the purposes and the fulfillment of the commitments that EITB has in the program contract with the Basque Government. And you tell me that objectivity and impartiality cannot be measured. Man, measuring it as you measure it, no, it's very difficult. And having the concept that you have of objectivity and impartiality as well. And we have always remained in the same position. The one we had in the last legislature is the one we have in this one, Mr Urruzuno. And I was telling you that we have different points of view, because you talk about objectivity and plurality, but, for example, you didn't say anything when in an EITB briefing you were announcing the famous human-demonstration chain of Gure Esku Dago and the reporter was encouraging people to go, and I was saying how wonderful that movement was. Isn't that opinion? We put it on the table on the Board of Directors and you enjoyed it. They didn't say anything, we had to respect professionalism. When we put on the table the attack on the plurality that it involves calling, in a program financed with the money of all Basques and all Basques, insulting a part of this society that feels Spanish, and it was called chonis and fachas to the Spaniards. That? Against that either? Because objectivity must be respected. So what this is all about is applying the same concepts and the same criteria in any case, and we were saying it in the last legislature and we are continuing to say it in this one. In addition to being mismanaged, in addition to not having a push, in addition to not having an impulse, in addition to not having originality, EITB lacks complete and absolutely objectivity and impartiality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u20	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that we have finished our discussion, we shall vote the original text of the proposition, which is the same as the EHG Team. We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 51; the supporters 20; the opponents are 31; the whites are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u21	So, not allowed original text. After that, we'll vote together for the full correction of Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 51; the supporters 20; the opponents are 31; the whites are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u22	So, it's not supposed to be a full-correction of Podemos together. Next, Eucabertians and Basque Socialists vote for full correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 51; the supporters are 31; the opponents are 20; the whites are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u23	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, with one another, of Bolkestein's leading operations on the trade-walker. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed team, the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u24	Good morning congressmen. I am not going to steal too much time from you on a day like today, I think the attention should be somewhere else, but I do want to explain briefly why our group has registered an initiative, a non-law proposal, with the intention of trying to minimize or try to act on the problems that are generating the famous European directive, the Bolkestein directive in the field of trade in street selling and, more specifically, in what we popularly call markets and markets. The reasons why we brought this initiative is because different walking trade associations in Euskadi contacted our parliamentary group, or rather, with municipal groups of the three parties of our coalition, to explain to us and transfer the concern and the situation they consider to be living, of uncertainty, in order to be able to carry out their work with minimal security, their walking sales work of which they live, and therefore, we, after listening to them and analyzing the issue and knowing this reality a little more in depth, decided that it was opportune to carry out some initiative. Finally, we have reached agreement with the groups that have made amendments to our original GNP. We believe that the agreement that has been reached is a positive agreement, we see that it is not a great agreement but that it is a positive agreement that will at least allow the government to say or urge the government from this Parliament to do a number of things that can alleviate these problems that are being faced by women workers in the street sales sector. As you know, these workers are engaged in the street sale in different locations, every day of the week they work in a different location, and this is a special condition or one that characterizes this sector in a special way and that creates concrete difficulties for them when it comes to being able to amortize the investments they make, the expenses they have to develop their small businesses, those who live and those who get their wages and their livelihoods. The fact that every day they work in a different population, with different regulations, since the competition when it comes to regulating is at the municipal level, something that we agree with, but the fact that they have different regulations in each locality, means that they have to comply with different rules every day of the week. This group usually needs, in most cases, to work five, six or even seven days a week in order to earn enough income to live a dignified life. And therefore, they depend on five, six or even seven different regulations. Well, this creates a problem for them, in particular, the non-harmonization of the awards of these posts in the markets supposes them that a trader who has awarded the post in Irun for the next four years, may happen to him that Tuesday it is up to him to go to Andoain, but in Andoain he has only for two years, Wednesday he goes to Donostia and he has for a year and so on. And, therefore, when it comes to making the investment, it is very difficult to make it in certain security conditions, because it cannot invest at four years, because in Irún it has a guaranteed position four years, but in Donosti it also ends the next day or the next year, and in Andoain at two years, and they need to work in five markets per week, at least to generate enough income for life. We are thinking of harmonization through different instruments. In our original initiative we talked about the possibility of a law. We have already been made clear, by the groups that were amending us, especially by the Socialist Party group, that they did not see the law we were talking about timely and that we have not closed down in a band and we think that there are also other possible ways of harmonising this issue. Because we do believe that such harmonisation is important and we believe that such harmonisation is not detrimental to municipal autonomy and the ability of the municipalities themselves to regulate these kinds of issues, and we would help these workers to have security and certainty in their ability to make a living with this activity. In the agreement we have reached, we also talked about alleviating the effects of the legislation mentioned above, of the European Bolkestein Directive, which is a European directive to which our group, well, Podemos and Equo at that time did not exist, but Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita existed and we opposed and made a number of considerations, because we knew the prejudices that this directive would have for our society. And, in this particular case, in the specific case of the street sale, we found that 10 or 11 years later with which, in fact, the effects also in this sector are harmful to a sector of workers who get up every morning very early in order to be able to earn bread with an activity that has a special character. And we believe that we also have to attend to it in a special way, not in a privileged way, but in a special way, because it has special characteristics. We have reached a compromise agreement in the terms I have put forward, we believe that the Government has to take a number of concrete measures and, above all, we believe that it has to do so taking into account the views of these professionals. What we are being moved is that they are not usually taken into account in a special way, and we understand that. If all responsibility for this matter is left to the municipalities, we understand that perhaps the Government has not been able to rely on this sector so far. Therefore, what has finally been agreed is to urge the Basque Government to take concrete measures to improve the conditions of the sector, relying on the views of these professionals, as well as others that have to do with the matter: trade unions, etc., and, logically, with the municipalities themselves. Secondly, that the Government implement and develop and elaborate these measures on a basis that has the objective of minimizing these negative and perverse effects that this European directive is assuming in the sector. We therefore believe that a positive agreement has been reached. I would like to inform you that my group is going to continue to explore other possibilities that might arise for us, initiatives to bring this House to improve the conditions of this sector. We will continue to study the possibility of the law, because we do not rule out the possibility of having such a law. In other communities they have it and the sector considers it positive and, therefore, we believe that it could be possible to introduce such a law, without prejudice to the autonomy of the municipalities. Furthermore, we thank the groups with whom we have negotiated, for their willingness to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u25	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Casanova, representing the EH Collect Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u26	Hello, good morning, everyone. Today we are going to discuss the conflictal relationship between the wandering trade and the British Bolkestein, and it seems to us necessary that this reflection should take so many reflections around Bolkestein's rectiant. The official name of the Dutch Bolkestein is the Justice of Services, 2006/123, the law of the European Union. This was the direct plan of marking a few common criteria in the service sector of the European Union. What happened in reality? After all, what had been accomplished by this law was to make political and neoliberal principles a law. And that's what's happening in Europe and in the world over and over again in the past years: the neoliberal principles, therefore, become laws, it is strictly necessary to be neoligary. In other words, it is forbidden not to have neoliberal in various districts. Unfortunately, that's what happened in this department of service. The excuse for preventing this Protechncism was given to liberalism by a red carpet, and it was a remarkable obstacle to guarantee public policies from different governments and administrations as regards social rights and in many other respects. The result is that we've had different problems, which we're going to deal with today. If the European construction continues to develop this neoliberal model, it is natural to increase the lack of attachment to Europe. If, for instance, what comes from Europe, is not a proposition in common to raise a higher prosecutority, unless it be to plan a minimum of common wages, if it be not to guarantee the rights of labor in European society, if it be not to have a European progressive system of unemployment or protection; and if it is possible that things should be liberalised and made laws in the service of great companies, it is natural that this should become less and less attached to Europe. This is not really Europe we want to build. This direct European had his transfer to the Spanish law of the State through the law of 17/2009, and, as I said, this process of taxation had been involved in different sectors. In the sector of trade, I would say that there was one of the most serious or serious impacts in our country, for instance, the plan of the territory in which it existed, and that the mortar around the great stalls had been abandoned. The subject is well known and actual. Besides, we'll deal with this Chamber several times and deal with it. But apart from the general commerce, he had a special impact on this subsector of commerce, that is to say, of traveling trade. It is true that he had positive impacts on various levels. Five articles of commerce are subject to the regulation of the traveling trade, and it was necessary to change four for the transferation of this right; and in general several limits were abolished. But apart from this, as has been said before, he had had negative impacts, because, after all, the small operators of the traveling trade are as multinational as if they were multinational. And competition or competition takes place in the first plane, regardless of the necessity and actual situation of people, persons, and workers, and that's why we're here today to try to fix it. The lack of stability has caused the most important concern in the sector. And this law obliges the rights to renew the rights at greater intervals. And this supposes that the sector can't have any stability that can guarantee rotation and competeability. And that's exactly the substance of the deal today. A search for a formula to give stability. Because the source of the sector wants rights to work, and to have a decent life as a person instead of a constant dependence on changes. Our party protected the City Law and voted for it, because we believe in that City Law, and in that City Law the municipal authorities are authorized by councils. We think that the power of the councils is to enable people because the councils are the institution most close to people. To give the power to the townships, the power is to approach the people, and therefore we believe that it is well that the municipal law should be entrusted to the councils. But it is true, as has been said, that there are always exceptions in the wandering trade, or there is always a small letter; and there is always a sector where a small difficulty may be made to bend the general principles; And so it is supposed that from one day to the next he must pass from one of his legal umbrella to another, and this creates the instability he has mentioned. And if we add to it, that they have different durations of the permits, and have different expiration dates, and consequently perpetual innovations or experiments, or a process of adaptation to those who are in trade. Therefore, in the middle of this day, we propose to make a law at first, or a frame of law, in order to develop within this law a proper regulation. The first step we suggested may be between all the agents, the councils, the professionals, and the Basque mad, all of them sitting around this problem, talking and trying to make a concrete issue. It's a serious matter, but I think it's quite satisfactory if it's will. It's illegally repairing, and I don't think there'll be too much political discussion behind it, because, after all, it's a technical matter. Let's hope today's agreement takes a step to solve the problem that these professional worlds have. Because, after all, our intention is that street selling is a dignified profession, that it can be profitable and that it can offer stability and a dignified and stable way of life to the people who perform it. For this it is important that there be a regulatory framework that allows this to happen and that does not add to a permanent instability to the people who are professionals in this sector. We therefore believe that it is important to sit down and talk and agree among all the parties involved on the necessary regulatory adaptations in order, while respecting the current division of powers and the law in force in this respect, to seek the most appropriate formulas to provide this sector with the dignity of its conditions, the possibility of professionalisation, the possibility of making medium-term investments, which obviously then require repayment periods that can only exist if there is stability within the sector, etc. For all this, we believe that this is the contribution that we are going to make. It is a modest contribution, but I believe that it can put this problem in the process of being resolved. And we are indeed pleased that this agreement has been made possible by the will of all groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u28	President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my solidarity with women, especially those who are fighting for equality today. I would also like to make it clear that my fellow Members from my group have asked Parliament's table for a direct discount on today's salary. Technically it is not possible and they decided to donate it to a social function that they will determine. Having said that, I believe that we are dealing with a debate which has its interest and its economic, social and service importance in the Basque Country, and I would like to point out a few things before reaching conclusions. We were initially proposed to take a legislative initiative from the government, somewhat in contrast to what was the European Bolkestein Directive on the regulation of the mobile trade sector. We, initially, as we were able to reflect in our compromise amendment, did not see it necessary or desirable to enter into a legislative confrontation when, on the one hand, the European directive is in place, a decision has already been taken that binds us, and, on the other hand, when the competence to regulate all this rests with the municipalities, a function that we want to continue to do so. Among other reasons, because the street trade has a very different expression in each of the 251 municipalities of the Basque Country. There are municipalities of one size, of another, with some needs, with others, with a commercial development, with another, and all this obviously it is up to them to organize it to the municipalities so that this function of service that makes the street trade has the corresponding expression in each of the municipalities. However, it is true that the sector, by having a European regulation, in an attempt to give, in some way, opportunities to the whole world, has limited the expectation for one sector, because by opening it up it is also closing the possibilities for them and, therefore, if there were no regulation, if there were no limit, we would be faced with a liberalisation, but everyone would be on equal terms, when a sector is already being put a stop to a limitation. Well, it is important that we can fix this and that we can intervene, but it must also be said, as a point of view, that the walking trade sector in the Basque Country is not a sector that is forgotten by the action of the Government and that the Hirigune programme of the Basque Government has for a long time been developing actions that, on the one hand, seek to promote together with the city councils urban areas to develop this walking trade, and, on the other hand, there are subsidies to mobile business units, fixed units, health elements, quality elements, promotion elements, well, there is a bery of activities, initiatives in collaboration between the government institution and the city institutions, and it is working. And, to be precise, it must be said that if one takes the last 10 years of the situation of the walking trade, he will realize that beyond the European directive and the regulation that is gradually being done in some municipalities and that in others it has not yet been done to adapt to that directive, the sector has fallen by about forty percent, both in number of walking businesses and in workers, that comes to be at the same time. We are talking about 1,200-1,300 businesses and some more workers 10 years ago, and yet about 700 today. It is therefore more the economic circumstances that have intervened in how this sector has weakened, than the legislation to use that has been carried out. In any case, beyond these details and data, we share the concern to take more and better care of the competition that each one has, and therefore, instead of going to make a law and enter into a confrontation, we have gone to a meeting, to a collaboration, to have a place of meeting with the commercial and social agents who are affected by the walking trade, with the municipalities themselves, because they are the determinants in making regulations and that some measures, some ideas, could be harmonized, so that there is greater stability, so that there are longer repayment periods and that the action of the work of the walking trade is worth, and also so that it can obviously coexist with other sectors of the economy, such as the establishment trade, where there are also entrepreneurs, there are also situations of self-employed people, there are also other commercial citations that have to coexist, and we know that, to some extent, there is competition here. It is not possible to vasculate much protection towards one sector without doing so to another, it is also not reasonable to enter into fields of competitive discrimination and, well, obviously we must act with a certain criterion and with a certain prudence. This is what we have done in the compromise amendment which has come in with a very broad acceptance by this House. I believe that this is going to be a step forward in order to be able to do so calmly, normally and without entering into legal conflicts. It is an impetus and harmonisation of the walking sector. I hope that with this we can satisfy a little or find spaces of collaboration and pleasure for all, so that there will continue to be an important trade sector, with an important entrepreneurship, with workers who make a living like this, and also with attention from the point of view of service, to those citizens who need that trade most from the circumstances of where the municipalities are located, of what their economic potential and of services in those places, and therefore, often this service is much more important than that of direct consumption, which is also that of rapprochement and that of ease for every citizen, living where life, can cover their needs and habits of consumption. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u29	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u30	The head of the table, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. Today is a demanding day and that is very good, especially for the claim that it is, but that claim is turning the agenda of this Parliament into a day of serial remains. Especially in the matter we are dealing with here, in this matter concerning the Community Services Directive, known as the Bolkestein Directive which, by the way, Bolkestein had already ceased to be Commissioner when this directive was adopted. Well, deep down, it's a truffle of old age, it's an old age theme. Another thing is that it may affect, I don't know how much, a certain sector, but, for starters, that directive was adopted in 2006. Bolkestein had ceased to be a commissioner in 2004. In other words, it was approved twelve years ago and entered into force in 2009, nine years ago. To tackle the problem urgently, Elkarrekin Podemos presented a GNP in May 2017, eight years after the entry into force of the directive, and, as they were very urgent to discuss it in this Parliament, they simply waited ten months to make it visible in a plenary. Having said that, and since the reasons for the subject have already been put forward by the proposer, I will not repeat myself. I will only remind you that much more recent than the directive and very little earlier than the submission of this GNP, on 7 April 2016, just a year earlier, the law on local institutions of Euskadi was passed in this Parliament. Article 14.1 of the Act states that "the powers of local authorities established by law or by law are to be classified into themselves, transferred or delegated". And already in article 17 it says what are the competences of the municipalities, neither delegates nor anything, their own. In paragraph 34, I quote: "Ordination and management of the internal market, in particular as regards the management and management of markets, supplies, fairs, fairs, slaughterhouses and walking trade, including also the planning and management of retail commercial use and large commercial equipment, taking into account criteria of urban planning – fundamental theme – and rational use of soil". That said, little more. It should be said that the Basque Government is doing its part, that it is nothing other than advising municipalities and, indeed, shortly after the adoption of the Local Entities Act, the Departments of Agriculture and Health, together with the three parliaments and Eudel, because you, in the explanation of your GNP: quote it is a government document. It is not from the Government, it is from the Government together with the parliaments and Eudel. They make a document to try to explain, help the municipalities to do better their fairs and markets, mainly from two perspectives: public health and the improvement of the quality of products offered. And it makes clear all the time that it is a formative and informative guide. You can't get older, that's what you're playing. In which, among other things, they are reminded that the requirements for authorisation by the municipalities for street sales, and as laid down in the directive and the legislation transposing the directive, must be necessary, proportionate and non-discriminatory. We all certainly agree that the general principles of any public concession must handle these concepts. On the basis of these principles, the rest is already the responsibility of the city council. What was initially done with this GNP was nothing more than proposing a government law to remove jurisdiction from the municipalities. And that reminds me of when the central government makes laws with the State's normalizing intent and charges itself with the competences that belong to Euskadi. It can't be that there isn't and here it is, because someone thinks it's a higher need at a certain time, because someone may feel affected. And more so when the directive to which they appeal is 12 years ago – I insist again – and the law that they have wanted to carry with the initial GNP is only two years ago. I was more surprised, I heard Mr Casanova's explanation, that EH Bildu also in his amendment asked for a new law to remove a competition from the local administration, when that law had been enthusiastically supported by them and worked hard to do so. And everything, I do not know, through a directive which you understand must be loaded and, therefore, by charging me with a directive which seems bad to me, I take over the competence of the municipalities. The dignity and stability of the municipalities, as Mr Casanova has said, is guaranteed if the municipalities do well. By the way, you also have a lot of municipalities in this country. Will they not try from Parliament to take away the powers of the municipalities? We understand that they are administrations that do things well and that have criteria for doing things. We can't take away a competition because we think someone says they've done it wrong. To conclude, the issue is the competence of the municipalities, and the Government respects municipal autonomy and the Local Institutions Act, and will cooperate to the extent it can. She's already collaborating with them, informatively, talking to them. This parliamentary group that I represent will always respect the Municipal Law, respect the competences that each institution in this country has granted by law and will not attempt to make a law to remove them. Another thing is to support the improvement of the commercial street sales sector, where, by the way, what would be necessary – and we have not spoken, but perhaps the other day we can talk about – is to deepen the quality, the professionalism and an issue that had not yet emerged, which is consumer protection, which is also very important in the whole commercial aspect, but also in the field of street sales. While we are convinced that the problems that have arisen in this area, rather than in the Bolkestein directive, which is not our liking either, but we also need to explain what the Bolkestein directive is about, we need to look at what it is about. The Bolkestein directive is not that Mr Bolkestein, the Dutch, was given a thunderbolt and decided to liberalise it all. It is an application in the Community directive of successive judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which revoked the removal of authorisations for trade and services in Europe, and successive judgments revoked those refusals of authorisations and were obliged in the European Union to apply the basic principles of the European Commission. We may agree more or less, but that must also be fair on that issue. And we could also talk about what you call – and to me it produces tremors, less bad that already in the transaction has not remained, and you have quoted it today – the necessary harmonisation. Harmonization is a double-edged weapon. Harmonization is a concept that, for example, is increasingly used to try to remove the Euskadi Economic Concert. You have to walk very carefully with the expression that is used, depending on where and with what. With harmonization you cannot take away the powers of the municipalities, as when in your initial proposal you talk about giving them 15 years of authorisation that can be extended for another 15 years. That is a model in which, in principle, the walker becomes sedentary. It is an issue to be discussed. But that said and especially ratified our respect for a law recently passed by this House and for municipal autonomy, because we are really pleased to have arrived at this transaction which resolves in a reasonable way what you proposed at the outset and which ends up betting on maintaining the competitive framework of the different administrations. I no longer believe that it is necessary to spend more neurons than necessary on a subject that you yourselves, in principle, had left behind, and you have rescued it exclusively in order to give content to this plenary. Because I repeat to you again that this GNP comes very late when you introduced it. And it is an old directive, until the time that has been taken to activate it in plenary, that is, I am not going to go any further on the subject. We are satisfied with what we have come to. Simply to finish and because I want to allow myself to pay tribute to a friend of mine who passed away last week, Mr Jordi Wagensberg, I bring up a couple of aphorisms, to which he was very fond and published, his aphorisms about time, that aspect that has to do with this GNP, because all we have talked about in this present is more than the past. Time passes, always ends up passing, it's just a matter of time. Life flows from the future to the past, because it begins when everything is future and ends when everything is past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u31	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The turn of the team that has not issued any correction, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, is the representative of the Basque Potion Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u32	Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Our group did not make any amendments to the original initiative, an initiative, as has already been mentioned here, which called for in the first point, the Basque Government to draw up a draft law on street selling adapted to the needs of the sector. A second point, in which it called for an increase in municipal authorizations to carry out walking trade activities by 15 years. And a third point, in which the Basque Parliament was to denounce that the Bolkenstein directive enshrines the commercialisation of the common goods and public services of the European Union. We were going to vote against this initiative and it is true that we are going to vote in favour of the compromise amendment which is going to be put to the vote, because, in fact, they do not coincide at all, Mr Hernández. They've given up what they've presented. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, we have a law to which no one has referred, to Law 7 of 1994, of 27 May, of the Commercial Activity, where in Title Third, the law speaks of the special modalities and practices of sale; Chapter I speaks of the sales made outside the permanent commercial establishment, and from article 14 to article 23 it is spoken of that it is the municipalities that are competent to regulate the wandering sale of the territories. That is, before the Local Entities Act of 2016, we already have a law that captures those powers. Therefore, we have a law that regulates or mentions the street sale. Because, in addition, it also has the sanctioning regime, which is very important. It also says that the municipalities are responsible for monitoring and control, ensuring compliance with health and safety standards and the management of commercial activity, as well as for monitoring and sanctioning minor and serious infringements, without prejudice to the competences assigned to other public administrations. Therefore, we have regulated this in a law and this law was amended in 2008, because our autonomous community was very agile in adapting our trade regulations to the new reality of the Bolkestein Directive and Law 7/2008 of 25 June was adopted, without prejudice to what would later be said by the new state law of 2010, the Royal Decree of 2010 and the Local Administrations Act of 2016, therefore, the street sale is regulated in this Autonomous Community and leaves in the hands of the municipalities the competition for all management and administration, as has already been said here. But he says something else, he says that authorization for the exercise of walking or non-sedentary sale will have a limited duration. The City Council shall fix the duration of the authorization for the exercise of the mobile or non-sedentary sale, after weighing the depreciation of the investment made and the fair remuneration of the capital paid out by the provider. The concession procedure must be public and transparent, so that, despite the time-limited nature of the authorisations, a fair compensation is provided – as I said earlier – for the investments undertaken by the holders. The street sale cannot be carried out without mandatory municipal authorization, therefore, it is the municipalities that give such authorization. And the authorization, as we have said, will have a period of validity, limited by different circumstances, according to the requests. There are one-week markets per year, there are one-month markets per year, there are fixed-day markets per week; the circumstances are very varied, therefore, the validity of the authorisation will be that established in the relevant competition procedure, which may be annual or non-annual, or higher or non-annual, and as I said earlier, taking into account the investment that the successful tenderers must make in order to conform to the model determined from the City Hall. "In any case, authorizations may be revoked by the mayor's office when it deems it appropriate," that is also stated in the 2010 state law, "addressing various aspects, when the circumstances that motivated their granting disappear." The market has been suspended for circumstances that may be many: for reasons of public works, for the need to reorganize public services, for other reasons of public interest that agree to its suspension. It is a power of the mayor's office also to organize such services. Therefore, granting an authorisation for 15 years, as has been said here, would no longer be a street sale and would be a sedentary sale, so I think we would be talking about something else. And, likewise, it may be possible to propose the temporary transfer or the temporary relocation of posts in those circumstances, I mean that it may be that the market is suspended or that it is moved, and that the trader is interested or not. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are facing a situation which is an activity, which, as the activity itself says, is walking and not sedentary, and is subject to certain mobility. It is true that the Administration has some obligations and responsibilities in giving authorization, but you will be with me in which you are subject to a local administration organization and therefore there may be circumstances in which that varies. As for the guide that has been spoken of here, it seems to me to be a guide that is quite well, of course, from my point of view, and that is good for the administration, the council, in this case, and is very good for the traders, because, in fact, there are aspects that are not in the decrees, nor in the laws, and sometimes in the ordinances some aspects are not explicitly collected. And we are talking about infrastructure and security, recommendations to the organisation, consumer conditions, consumer and user rights. We are talking about general principles of hygiene, presentation and labelling of food, banned food and discouraged food, hygienic-health requirements – as I have said – of sales outlets; in short, it is a very didactic guide and I think it is a good manual for this activity and it would be good if it were disseminated and known by all the walkers who come to our markets. Because there has been talk of trade in the Autonomous Community, but there is a lot of market where street traders come from other areas that are not of the Autonomous Community, and that would also be good to spread it and be aware of how they have to operate here and under what circumstances. We are going to vote in favour of the compromise amendment that you have agreed or that I have seen that you have agreed. We agree, you can always contribute and refine some aspects and give safety to street traders. But, of course, you have given up a new law, you have given up 15 years and you have denounced the directive. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing on the answers, together Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u34	I would have preferred not to intervene, I thought I wasn't going to intervene in the second round. The truth is that we have not given up anything, another thing is that today we have reached an agreement where there are not several of the approaches we were doing. But I have already said in my previous speech that we are going to continue to study the possibility of a law, that we are defending appropriate periods, and the compromise amendment does not talk about 15 years, but it does say that the problem of deadlines has to be addressed, and that is the problem. We have not put a specific number of years because it is true that it can be 15, it can be another, but there is a problem of deadlines, we have given up nothing. And of course, we are still critical of the Bolkestein directive in general and how it affects this group. And we will continue to claim it even if it is not in the agreement we have reached. I think it is too presumptive to assume that when we raise the possibility of a law we are doing so to remove competition from the municipalities. Well, that's your opinion, of course that's not our intention. Mrs López de Ocariz says that there is already a law affecting this sector, so I understand that this law does not go to the detriment of municipal jurisdiction and, therefore, the fact that there is another type of law, beyond whether it is positive or not, does not necessarily have to affect municipal jurisdiction. I think it was an absolutely wrong argument, and of course it was not our intention to attack the municipal sphere when we proposed the possibility of a law, because in addition we, our coalition and my party, United Left, have always been defined as municipalists. Well, I think the deal is good, it marks that you have to do some sort of thing. I believe that in my intervention, not even in the justification of our original initiative, we have made no sort of criticism that the government has neglected this sector or that the government has never done anything about this sector, so I do not understand very well some of the considerations of the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party. In any case, I believe that we have reached an agreement that puts first a problem on the table that there is, a problem that these traders in this sector have and to which we must give some kind of answer. We carried out this initiative, it is true, quite a few months ago, when several of the community's trade associations came into contact with us. And we have brought it to Parliament when we think it is appropriate, and that does not mean that it seems to us to be a minor issue, and I would ask for respect for all the initiatives that are being taken. Because I have heard several times in this House, not just our group, different groups, that kind of consideration that when you register a thing and take it a year later, that seems to have less value. Each group will know the reasons why it brings an issue to the debate at a given time. For me this question is no less, I recognize that there may be issues of greater general interest, but for me it is no less, for me the people working in this sector are important. In particular, I have been raised going every Saturday to the Irun market, and I see how these people work and for me it is not a minor matter. That is why we have also reached an agreement so that we can make progress in defending the interests of these workers. Setting certain periods, whether 10 or 15 years old, does not stop this activity from being or become sedentary as you have said. Precisely because every day they work in one place, even if they have a 10- or 15-year-old permit, on Monday they're going to have to go to one town, but on Tuesday they're going to have to go to another. And they're gonna have to come back on Monday coming to that same town where they've been 10 years, they're gonna have to ride and disassemble every day. It does not become sedentary because the periods are two, four, six or eight years, I have not understood that argument very well. Well, anyway, thanks to the signatory groups, thanks also to the People's Party, because we've been told they're going to vote in favour of the transaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u35	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u36	Well, neither do I. In view of the agreement, I also did not intend to make use of this second round, but, well, in view of some of the allusions or issues that have been raised here, simply by mating. I would recommend to Mr Tellería that he keep the artillery for more important battles, and not because this issue, as Mr Hernández said, is smaller, but because it is an issue that is already agreed, that there is a resolution in which his group is involved and perhaps the tone and aggressiveness should be reserved for other moments. I think you've heard the word harmonization and you've come to mind the LOAPA, the Organic Law of Harmonization of the Autonomic Process, and you think we're going to do some sort of LOAPA, and I think it's been disproportionate. Because this is an issue which, in fact, creates a very specific problem. The Local Institutions Act obviously gives competence to the municipalities, but without attempting to invade or regain that competence. It is true that it is necessary to look for a formulation that offers the different municipalities the possibility of, I do not know if – I was going to say – harmonising, but they are also going to be angry, but of giving a more or less homogeneous response to a reality that does not begin and end within the limits of their municipality, but precisely by referring to people who are rotating through those municipalities, because it would be more interesting that, without any impairment, without any hardship, without any recovery of competences, a number of common criteria could be put to the municipalities. Not only would it be interesting, but it has been done. And what we are proposing is that what has been done be improved. It is true that this may not have to have the formulation of a new law, and, in that sense, the transactional corrects the proposal that this be done through a law and proposes a dialogue table at which these common criteria can be sought. I understand that the municipalities have very broad powers. Mrs López de Ocariz said that we had not made any references to the Commercial Activity Act: we have made references to that Act, precisely by saying that there are five articles regulating street selling, and that, of those five articles, four were touched by the amendment law that came to respond to the Bolkestein Directive. But look: five items to regulate the street sale. Any city order for street sales is longer, not that these five articles, but the whole Business Act, which is very prolific and needs to regulate many things in detail. Indeed, there must be a very broad area in which the City Council decides on which days yes, on which days no, in which areas yes, in which areas no. Indeed, all this is municipal competence, but a number of common criteria can be offered to the municipalities, so that they share them and so that the people who have to carry out this activity on a rotating basis do not have to make a daily adjustment in certain aspects. And that I don't think it's either a LOAPA, or a re-centralisation, or take away the powers from the municipalities. And, as I said, you have mentioned the guide made by the Basque Government and the deputies, from the point of view, especially of the food fairs, but also Eudel itself has presented a model of ordinance so that the municipalities have the easier to deal with a problem that can be complex, and for which it can be useful to have a model. In the same way that the guides and models have been made, what we propose is that a dialogue table be made and, it is true, that those who have obviously not had much voice so far, who are the professionals themselves in the sector, are invited to round up the play and understand that as far as can be reached a point of agreement and of synchronization or legislative homogenization is reached, and from there every municipality can develop it in the free exercise of its competences that no one is trying to recover. And a final question on the Bolkestein directive also seems to be the result of a kind of involuntary determinism: that the application or dynamics of the Court of Justice itself in the application or interpretation of the Treaty on European Union lead to the adoption of legislation such as the Bolkestein Regulation, and that is not the case. It is true that there were judgments and that there had been dealings with the Article of the European Union which were deemed to be violated by certain practices which could restrict competition, but the very trajectory of the Bolkestein Directive shows that it can be done in one way or another. The original project was even more liberalizing than the end, which still remains quite liberalizing. That is to say, there is no determinism that would force us to have the Bolkestein directive as it is, but it is the result of a determined correlation of forces in the European Parliament at that time, which led to a liberalizing and right-wing law. And that's what we have and we suffer. And we suffer it on this subject and, as I said, we suffer it when we cannot, for example, determine how many malls we want to have or where we want to implement them or what dimensions they have to have, as has happened to us with the sectoral territorial business plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u37	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u38	Yes, president, three things. If the Bolkestein Directive were to apply it to all municipalities within the period granted for outpatient sales for one year, it would make the sector totally unworkable. And it would be within the law. Sometimes the laws generate in their application delicate, perverse, harmful effects, as it is called, that must be attended to, and it is necessary to see how the negative effects that can have can be alleviated without violating it. I believe that this is the main argument of the initiative we are carrying out. I don't know how much you'll visit the markets. I usually do a lot, about everyone if they're antiques. And I do it a lot in France, our neighboring country. And I've been going to antique markets for years; they're always the same and I don't know how they apply the Bolkestein Directive in France, but they're always the same. I therefore believe that we should do something that unites Europe with France and the Basque Country and creates an facility for this sector to continue its activity. Finally, I wanted to say something that is not usually done in Parliament, but I would like to thank Mr Hernández for having given up certain things, not in the partisan aspect, but in putting his initiative together in this House. Today we could have quietly ended this debate with a vote each of their positions, so that nothing would finally come out. Well, he's had flexibility, he knew he had to change some of his pretensions, and as I think a Basque House representing Basque citizenship is not to demonstrate the oratory skills or the boxers between parties but to produce something for the benefit of the citizens he represents, I think today there is an agreement that allows us to work and move forward. And it gives interest and effectiveness to this Parliament. And therefore, wanting to hurt someone to be flexible so that a consensus can finally be generated seems to me to be an imprudence and a destitution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u39	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u40	I'll scream. Like the others, I didn't want to go out either, but I don't know, you see that a subject like this has aroused... I don't come to do any dialectic boxing. I have come to hold a parliamentary debate on a subject, which, by the way, if we had kept ourselves... I too thank Mr Hernández for his progress and for our compromise. If each one had remained in his own, nothing would have come out; no, ours would have come out. Today would have been ours, we had a majority today. And as much as I respect that everyone brings the GNP they want, I respect it, but it draws my attention that in a plenary like today, all those who have come, in addition to that which has been withdrawn, are 10 months ago, May. All of them. Not a loose one, which obviously each has its own political agenda and calendar. No, no, they're all from May. They were all, they were packed, because it had been a while and they didn't activate them. Same thing, I respect that they let me be an artilleryman when I want to be an artilleryman. And in any case, today has been minor artillery, you know me very well. I can get the bazooka out anytime, and today has been a kid thing. Another thing is that it all depends on the interlocutor, how he takes the bullets, but, no, it has been smaller because, I insist, he has caught my attention, he drew my attention as you in your amendment asked for a law that, in the background, it is true, modified the Law of Local Entities, did. Any law that you want to make on walking business amends the Local Entities Act because, I repeat, the Local Entities Act in the article speaks of "ordering and managing the walking trade", management and management. Another thing is that we try to find agreements. The municipalities are the first to seek advice, to tell them how to do things, and that's very good, if that allows everyone to do the same, but we have very different municipalities. Look, I'm a councilman at a town hall that we have on the street sale day on Fridays and we go crazy because nobody comes, because Antzuola is a small town and we have few customers, and I imagine that on the first Monday of Gernika, Gernika Town Hall is crazy because everyone wants to go there because there are a lot of people. Of course, we have to put order in all that and it's very complicated. In small towns we want more sellers to come and we do not think, I do not think of bringing a proposal to force the street vendor who goes to a large town to also go to a small town, so that he gives us service to the citizens of small towns, it cannot be. That is, that there is everything in all this, in the Lord's vineyard, and therefore we must walk with care, careful with harmonization – I said simply –, careful with it; using that expression has not been artillery, that has been artificial fuegogitos, Mr Casanova. I mean, not in that. Anyway, I appreciate the transaction again, but I'm going to write you one thing, how they were leaving the municipalities. Yesterday at the last hour, when we were dealing with the transaction at the point where it was said that the Basque Government was acting in some way by listening to the sellers, the merchants, they had forgotten to listen to the municipalities and we had to add it, I added it. And it continues to draw my attention that, however municipalist it may be, in this matter a little bit of the town halls have been forgotten. I see that in the end you have signed, negotiated and, therefore, we are all remembering the municipalities that have your life, have your policy, have your activity and must respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u41	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Finally, the representative of the Basque Popula team, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz will not speak a word. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to go into the vote, and we're going to vote together with Podemos, EHG, and Euscal Sozialists and Euzarian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 51; the supporters, 51; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainers are 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u42	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Provide the same proposal as the parliamentary team, about the self-consumption of pure balance power. Discipline and final resolution. In turn of the proposed team, the Representative of the EH Collect group has the word to present and defend its own initiative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u43	Yes, good morning, good noon already, all of you. I think I'm out of bazooka, too. I've lost track of you at the previous point. But here, even if you have an agreement, you never know. So, we'll see about that. Before we start, of course, I want to thank the feminist battle for the indispensable work of the patrician. But I can't forget today, by chance, that it's a fireman's day, for them too, it's a feast day, and a warm farewell to my colleagues. Meanwhile, we'll talk about self-consumption for a while. It is not the first time that we have brought the subject to this Chamber, we have insisted on the need of the necgetic transition, and in this transition it is very important to discuss and participate in the whole society. The next standard, which we need, the means to centralize, and from the absence of least hands, must either scatter production, or go to a districtbrogate, and be in the hands of many more hands. In this sense, the electric autoconsumption hits the whole purpose. It is necessary to fulfill the goals of the recurrents, even to fulfill climateal purposes. What does self-consumption suppose? To place the subject, it explains much better than I, for the purpose of putting together many groups of Aianza por elconsumos on the table. "Self-consumption – we are told – is a central tool for the exercise of citizens' right to participate actively in the energy transition. The more people involved in the energy transition, the greater their public acceptance and the lower their cost. "It is supportive of the environment, by avoiding the use of contaminating energy sources and the emission of greenhouse gases, contributing to the improvement of air quality. It is supportive of the country, reducing the import of fossil fuels and energy dependence, balancing the trade balance and improving energy sovereignty. It is in solidarity with the rest of consumers, helping to reduce the price of electricity and the bill of light for all consumers. "The self-consumer contributes to the maintenance of the system as any other consumer, by paying the costs of the system for being entitled to use it. Self-consumption generates competition and increases flexibility in the electrical system, which can also lead to lower final energy prices. It brings benefits to the electrical system by avoiding losses to the system, as the point of production and the point of consumption approach. It also prevents the development of new transport and distribution networks. "In the future, it will be essential to develop active demand management and, in this sense, self-consumption is also a great ally, being a tool for consumer empowerment, facilitating the entry of new players into the market, helping the system to better adapt to consumption patterns and flattening the demand curve. "There is no additional cost to the electricity system, as renewable technology installations are directly profitable through savings in the electricity bill, without any aid. "And self-consumption, especially in its shared mode – which is what we are talking about today especially – can contribute to the fight against energy poverty for vulnerable social groups. "In addition to all this, it has benefits for the economy in general, because it involves creating direct, qualified, local employment. "And it contributes to technological development and innovation." We agree with all of this, of course, and we see, therefore, that self-consumption, encourage, and facilitate in all the fashions it has. And it seems to me today that we shall take a step along the right road with a large and broad protection. We have before us a regulation in Spain, and the regulations of Spain have taken a turn which is contrary to the change required by the use of mygetic model in the last years. After the last year of Spain, the survival policy in Spain, 2010, has been a disaster for retractable energy and self-consumption, all you have to do is see the data. There are two landmarks among many others: one, the Law of Ellectic Sector 2013; the other Decreted King of 2015, regulating the Autosumption. This has been so violent for the photoboltic auto consumption that the sun is known throughout the world as a tax or an impresist. What, briefly, did this decree mean? For the decree gave the dot to electric self-consumption in all its modalities, for the additional charges and tariffs it assumed. He delved into an infertile bureaucracy that makes the development of self-consumption impossible in practice, and was, among other things, an absolute ban on the development of the form of self-consumption shared. I mean, a community of neighbors that installs solar plates on the roof and want to share those solar plates, nowadays, they can't do it. Well, he's in doubt today, because now we're going to talk about what the Constitutional Court has annulled. Anyway, and before this decree, self-consumption had already been touched by death by other decrees and by the 2013 Act, and, it is important to point out, because although today we focus on its gravity in the sun tax, reality has shown that with all the obstacles that have been put in place, it is practically impossible to make progress in self-consumption. And I believe that the best proof of this is on the islands, because, for example, the Canary Islands does not, or does not, affect, a large part of the sun tax of Decree 900/2015, and the Canary Islands are not developing the self-consumption facilities either, because there are other obstacles. And the main obstacles are two: one is the bureaucracy associated with all the decrees, that is, with all the regulations; the second is the absolute prohibition that there was about shared self-consumption. Although in practice what the installers are telling us is that there is a third important barrier, which is the resistance that the distributors are putting, usually large distributors. This subject has been important to us for a long time. 2013. This Assembly of Laws received it with our impulse, as follows: "Decreted King, then 9/2013, if it gets in, it'll be a specific proposition to promote electric power autosumption." This was admitted by a large majority, but perhaps I am mistaken, and you will tell me, though I accept the half-way partiex, that the former Government was not properly developed. In the year 2015, however, we proposed another law, and in our opinion of the intermediates, a very interesting one, and said chiefly among other things: "Eus Actual Act represents an opposite attitude" because it makes an unforgivable opposition to the electric self consumption and development of the retended energy in the presence of the King Omnipotent "....................................... And "Eus Instruments in the Eulegious Department of the Euskal Act, demands a report in six months' time, which will explain what consequences the prescribed regulations are about spreading auto-consumption in the Euscal Autonomi Erdero, and what opportunities are to develop in our jurisdictions a frame of the proper rule, to help us establish a clean balance consumption and an electric production." It is true, however, that though the other proposal of the law was accepted with great protection, yet I should say no great step was taken, I should say none at all. And today we bring back another initiative, even if we'd entered the year before, and though at first there was a proposition about the brake net, the changes have been important since we've been introduced in the past two years like ourselves, and we've changed our orientation. And in this sense I must also be grateful, for the only ones who introduced the amendment in this case were Jelts and Sociists, and we have seen that they have had a constructive position, and that the middle-class has finally been looking at the present situation. But I want to make a small difference, because although the laws of Spain and the royal decrees were admitted, the life of this law is extremely complicated, because the government made a political choice to prevent the re-election of the inhabitants, the monopolisic and the great producers, and to protect the self-consumption of Europe, as we see. The result of these policies has been that the development of renewables has suffered a more than important stoppage, that there has been a rain of lawsuits before the courts of commerce, that they are beginning to involve bleeding, I refer to ICSID's rulings, and that the electrical self-consumption, so necessary to involve citizens in the change of model, has been totally amputated. ICSID judgements have not been the only setbacks to the Government's energy policy. The Government of Catalonia brought the Sun Tax Decree 900/2015 to the Constitutional Court last year, saying that it annulled articles 19, 20, 21 and 22, thus nullifying the registration of self-consumption facilities, and also nullifying article 4.3, and this article is very important, because it said, in no case will a generator be able to connect to the internal network of several consumers. That is, it cut, prohibited the possibility of self-consumption in the mode known as shared self-consumption. The reasons of the Constitution, which, like other times, does not value the specific content, tell us that with these kinds of articles autonomous competences are trampled, there is no competition balance, the competences we have to develop the basic legislation of the State. In the explanation of the judgment, what is at the root of all this comes out and the 2010 EU Directive, which considers decentralised energy supply facilities as a means of ensuring that buildings meet the minimum energy efficiency requirements, comes out. And it is also defined that by 2020, with a view to having buildings with less consumption, the almost zero or very low amount of energy required should be covered to a very large extent by energy from renewable sources, including energy from renewable sources produced on-site or in the environment. I mean, he's talking about self-consumption. So now, where we read "Member States will adopt", we must include, "Member States and Autonomous Communities will adopt", in this case, our own. Today's proposal, at its first point, seeks precisely to address the vacuum generated by the annulment of this article, and the Government is asked to regulate shared self-consumption. We understand that this can be an important step. We believe that the regulatory development that may result from this proposal can fit and be consistent with the energy sustainability law that is being processed, as it can enable not only individuals but also administrations to install shared self-consumption facilities. In any case, when the Government's proposal comes, which has a deadline until the end of the year, we will talk about this again. In the second, the Madrid government is directly questioned, this is the part of the transactional that the PNV and the Socialist Party have contributed, and almost better that they explain it. We agree with this part, of course, but I say this for sharing the game. The People's Party doesn't know if it's going to add to all this. I invite you to look for unanimity on the first point, which seems important to us. If you want to follow in, what we think, maintain the error that Madrid continues to maintain with regard to self-consumption, as you will know. But I think they would also do Madrid a favor by supporting even the second point, and adding to the cry that exists around this law, this decree, so that the change is made as soon as possible, or annulled. In Europe the new energy and climate package is about to enter the final talks, and I believe that from there they are going to fall the sun tax, yes or yes. That's going to be clear. In short, we are happy with the step to be taken today. We will, of course, remain vigilant so that it does not remain in a more undeveloped GNP on the subject. And I want to end up with a Christmas note, because I think the opportunity opens, we know it won't be easy. The way things are, I don't know how we can get far, because we'll meet with two resistances. One at the present day, with the opposition of the Spanish Government and its self-consumption, and consequently with the Constitutional Court. So we're gonna have to play on these limits, but we'll find it, and we'll find it, and this one is always showing up when you're in there, the opposition of big electrons, in our case of the Iberdron. There must be an occasion, because every kilowattt every hour of self-consumption, even if it's a savings and in general useful, it's a kilowattt that doesn't buy from the Iberdron or the dealer. I think we should be victorious. We have a situation. Reproductive energy production, in general, is 7%. In our electrical production, it's about 14 to 15 percent and, in view of the problems in our territory, self-consumption is indispensable. So I leave it here for now and see if something else comes back the second time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u44	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u45	Thank you, ma'am. First of all, and for the first time, this subject must be brought to Natalia Rojo, but as it is on strike, I will take it with all my heart. I make my own the demands of our companions who are absent from this plenary today, because they are on strike, and we not only sympathize with them, but, as I said, we claim absolutely everything they are claiming on a day that we understand to be historic. Not only for women, but for the society of this country. This subject is essential to us, very important. It is not a vain subject, but a subject in society, a subject in indulgence. It is true that earlier it was a question that in institutions could sound even anecdotal or that went through a lot of dots, but that, over time, it is becoming a topic not only of rabid topicality, but of a tremendously important political silence. And it is becoming, among other things, because there is a social concern. An important social concern, also political, also institutional. Therefore, for energy, for its costs, for the sources, but, as a result of all this, especially for the environmental consequences. Therefore, we are talking about an issue that is tremendously relevant in our day, but above all, tremendously relevant to the future. We understand that the decisions taken by the Spanish Government in recent times do not help in any way to move forward on this issue. We believe that there are institutions that are moving in the right direction, that even society can be moving in the right direction, that there is even social will, institutional will to move forward on this issue. But we understand that the decisions taken by the Government of Spain continue to be sticks on the wheels to make progress on this issue. And it's not a matter that we've been put on the table from night to morning either. It is a subject that already comes from the last legislature. In this very House we have had the opportunity to discuss this issue at length. And we understand it's time to move forward. We have to move forward. We have an obligation to move forward, we have an obligation to achieve an efficient energy system, a sustainable energy system that lays the groundwork for an electricity sector based on renewable energy. But not in the long term, we have to start working now to make that a short-term, medium-term reality. For that future to be a future in which emission reduction is a tangible reality. To make it compatible with the commitments of the Paris summit, so that those commitments are actually fulfilled, in a real, effective and tangible way. That is why we advocate the need for a legal framework, a stable regulatory framework for electrical self-consumption. So that it is a guarantee and so that small-scale generation in the net-balance-sheet mode, is also a reality, so that that is possible. That we do not have obstacles so that those who want to apply it in their domestic consumption can do so without being penalized for it. So that no one has to pay additional taxes for being able to do so. We therefore understand that it is a right of citizens to have that opportunity. We believe that we are at a time of political debate on the future of energy in Euskadi, at a key time, at a decisive moment and we are going to start the debate on a bill, and we are used to talking about the so-called energy transition. It is not something that catches us by surprise, it is not something that catches us by news, but, in addition to having discussed it, we know that we have been working during the last legislatures on it. So now, at the very moment when we are beginning to debate politically about the establishment or creation of a legal framework that will allow it, we believe that we are at that decisive moment when we have to be brave and move forward in this direction. We understand that the compromise amendment that we have reached by the parliamentary groups EH Bildu, Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists responds perfectly to the shared concern on this issue. Not only by the parliamentary groups represented in this House, but also by society in general, by the very institutions to which I referred at the beginning of my speech. It collects the demand or the need for legislation, and, on the other hand, the need to amend article 9 of the Electricity Act and the repeal of provisions of the Royal Decree among other matters. These are issues that seem to us to be fundamental for that to be a reality, for no one to have obstacles in exercising what we understand to be a right: electric self-consumption. Therefore, on the part of our parliamentary group, we only have the will to be able to move forward on this issue in the future, so that what is today a social and institutional political concern, tomorrow is a solution, a good tool to be able to manage ourselves energetically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u46	Thank you, sir, Andueza. For the Basque Nationalist group, Mr Grajales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u47	Thank you, Mr Price. Mr. President, Chief, I won't show you the picture, but my grandmother, who's going to be 90 tomorrow, has put her purple scarf around her neck today because she doesn't want what she's been living for her grandchildren and their daughters. My grandmother is very wise, and she knows that things have changed since her youth, and she is very clever, and says there are still so many things to be done. Let us help him, men and women, to make this desire of equality, because the grandmother, mother, wife, friend, sister, aunt, and above all our children deserve a decent society. The net balance is one of the options for promoting the distributed generation that has already been discussed by several of those who have preceded me in the use of the word, by which, under certain conditions, losses in the distribution network can be reduced. To the extent that the objectives associated with renewable energy are to be achieved, solar photovoltaic energy is the most efficient technology today in these policies. In Europe solar photovoltaic energy is the most common self-generation technology and has one of the most important potentials. The net balance is the exchange of energy with the network. It is a way of managing electricity so that the energy generated by the user himself and which is not instantly self-consumed is poured into the network to be later compensated for energy consumed from the network. It is a deferred exchange of energy units; for example, one kilowatt day hour for one kilowatt night hour. This type of net balance sheet is considered physical, but can also be given in economic terms, since the cost of electricity varies every hour of the day. Thus, a balance sheet could also be given for an exchange of economic units. California is the greatest example of this kind of policy, with its lights and shadows. We don't know the ideal yet. And in Europe it is gradually being implemented, especially in countries such as Belgium, the Netherlands, Greece and Cyprus. In addition to the net balance, there are other policies with which to develop distributed energy, such as self-consumption, which is the individual production of electricity for consumption itself. In Europe, the Commission's proposals in the latest energy packages recognise the right to self-consumption and self-generation. Self-consumers are recognised at EU level and their countries will have to implement a legally binding framework that gives them the right to generate, consume, store and sell their own energy. In these European policies for the promotion of distributed generation there are three important elements that are envisaged: one, the right to sell self-produced energy; two, the right to share self-consumption; and three, the obligation on the part of states to simplify procedures. Therefore, to develop this potential of self-consumers we have to bet on changes in the electricity market and policies that in many cases are not in place, including the right to a fair economic remuneration for the energy poured into the network. In Spain, the net balance is not regulated at this time and self-consumption has been chosen as a policy for the promotion of distributed generation, through Decree 900/2015, which, as Mr Otero mentioned, apart from a number of other problems, does not comply in any case with the European guidelines we have mentioned. Firstly, by failing to guarantee the above-mentioned economic remuneration, by eliminating renewables premiums in 2012, replacing them with a system of reasonable profitability for plants installed from that time stipulated by the Government. Secondly, with regard to shared self-consumption, it was directly prohibited in that royal decree, although as mentioned above, the Constitutional Court gave partial reason to the Generalitat of Catalonia when it appealed it and declared null and void several of the articles, opening the door to shared self-consumption in housing buildings, urbanizations, etc. And thirdly, the administrative procedures are quite cumbersome. That is why we have come to the compromise that we are voting on today, because we want a regulatory framework favourable to self-consumption to be developed or, otherwise, the basic legislation on the regulation of the electricity sector to be transferred to the Basque Autonomous Community. We know that, today, legislation regulating the electricity sector and self-consumption are part of the basic legislation of the State. However, we are taking steps as far as we can; the proliferation of smart networks essential for the development of these technologies is a clear example of this. And we believe that we can continue to make progress as far as possible. We want the government to continue to work on the empowerment of smart power networks, known as smart grids, as well as the European directives of 2004, 2009 and 2012 promoting generation, renewable energy and energy efficiency, to achieve a decentralized and renewable electricity model, supporting all initiatives that drive it. We want the Government, following last year's Constitutional Court ruling, to appreciate the possibilities of being able to develop within our area of competence a regulatory framework of its own to promote the implementation of self-consumption. We actively bet on self-consumption, it is useless to put doors to the field, and self-consumption will grow and become an important reality in the configuration of the electrical system in the near future. Self-consumption facilities that hybridise renewable electricity generation and electrical storage solutions and the commitment to renewable thermal generation are two of the main areas of work ahead. We must continue to demand from the State a regulatory framework favourable to self-consumption – hence point number two of the proposed amendment – a responsible self-consumption that covers basic consumption and with a regulation that gives legislative stability and long-term certainty. It's absolutely desirable. We have always agreed on the debugging of the electricity tariff and that this includes only the costs associated with the electricity system, i.e. generation, transport and distribution. The rest of the concepts currently supported by the electricity tariff would have to be covered by the State's General Budgets. In other words, we must pay for the energy we consume, and for the access and maintenance of the networks to the extent that we use them, both in case of import and export of energy. We enjoy one that is probably one of the best systems for the transport and distribution of electrical energy in the world and this entails maintenance costs of the aforementioned networks, which are, logically, borne by the users of the electrical system. If a part of the consumer is exempt or privileged in terms of his contribution to the maintenance of the networks, it necessarily implies that others bear the cost of the brought, usually, including those most disadvantaged consumers who cannot, for economic and surface reasons, access to self-consumption. And since not only an energy model lives man, I would not like to finish this intervention without mentioning another model. Every 8 March we commemorate the struggle of women throughout history to participate in society, in any of its fields, on equal terms, and I also aim at that commemoration, from and with my male perspective I also join. I join in defending a fundamental right which, in addition to being an essential value for democracy, is also a key and necessary factor for the human, social and economic development of the Basque Country. Together we must all participate in the construction of an inclusive society in which we can all develop a full, dignified and equal life. We talk about smart networks, and there's only one that's smart that we'll be able to weave between all of us. There is no better task in which to use our energies to achieve a more just society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. Grajales. I give the floor to Mrs López de Ocariz for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, more than two years have passed since the adoption of the Royal Decree of Self-Consumption in Spain, a royal decree which apparently did not satisfy anyone, but which facilitated the progressive development of this type of facility in our country and which has turned consumers into producers. They no longer only consume electricity, but also produce it and can store it, while actively managing its consumption. And, therefore, we can say that it has been much better to regulate a real decree, although it certainly has flaws, than a non-real decree and this is what the representatives of the Basque Country of photovoltaic companies told us on the day of Tecnalia that took place in Zamudio in 2016, where, by the way, you invited us to the political groups and there was a representative of Podemos – although the political group was not in the Chamber –, Basque Nationalist group and Popular Group. Neither the Socialist Group nor Bildu went on that day. Much has been said in these more than two years and the adoption of a net balance sheet scheme in Spain has been required to allow, at least at the domestic level, to make better use of all the solar energy generated in those hours of the day when there is practically no consumption in our homes, and there are experts who say – and I am talking about representatives of solar self-consumption companies and experts, not representatives of the People's Group, nor of the People's Party – that there is a net balance in the articulation of the Royal Decree of Self-Consumption, and they speak of Article 16.2 and Annex 1.4, and I have here a report from a company – which I do not know – Solartradex. They're experts and there it is, there I leave it. And what do they come to say? They mainly talk about the advantages for domestic self-consumers, and say that perhaps the electricity companies are not assuming it and are not applying it out of ignorance or mere laxity, with the consequent economic damage that this can cause. And I believe that the screams of some have contributed to the electrics being held down, in this case, because there is that possibility in the actual decree, in the articles and in the annex cited. Indeed, it may be broader, but it does apply for a period of hours and for a very domestic type of consumption. "The Spanish state is at the head of the world when it comes to hindering electrical self-consumption," says Mr. Otero in his initiative. It has to be said that the current Spanish legislation on self-consumption – we believe, if so, it is endorsed – is perfectly aligned with the indications contained in the Commission's proposals. Therefore, we understand that there is no barrier or disincentive to self-consumption in Spain. In December 2017, just three months ago, EU energy ministers negotiated the so-called winter package in Brussels. The European Council endorses the sun tax on self-consumption in Spain. The 28 member states have endorsed that self-consumers must pay for the disputed back-up toll. Neither the European Parliament in its conclusions nor the European Council made any reference, although the rapporteur – a Spaniard – did introduce it initially; they ignored this cause. It is true that they will now meet with the country President of the Commission and come to the final conclusions. But neither one of you is talking about what you call sundown. Therefore, it must be said that what you call the sun's disparately imposed rate is an approved rate following the reform of the electricity system, which pointed out that those users who have an autonomous generation system, such as solar plates on roofs, and are connected to the common electricity network, must pay an extra at the end of the energy term of their bill as costs of maintaining the system, as well as the rest of consumers. Small consumers, less than 10 kilowatts, do not pay these costs to the system. Self-consumers given discharges as producers receive economic compensation for the energy they pour into the network. Self-consumers must contribute proportionally to the costs of the system, in line with Spanish legislation, as ratified by the Supreme Court before the appeal of the companies in the sector, which was dismissed by that court. This has been said by the Supreme Court, which has dismissed the appeal of photovoltaic companies. The courts are therefore giving reason to the government, and the European Council and the European Parliament have also given reason to the government. I do not know how these negotiations will end, but today we cannot say that this is being questioned in Brussels. Isolated self-consumption, when the person who does it is not connected to the network, does not have this toll. That's free. Self-consumption replaces centralized generation by distributed, reducing network consumption. But the electrical system as a whole remains and the fixed costs are maintained. This means that if these fixed costs are not covered, it will increase the energy price for all consumers. I mean, if you make self-consumption, I make self-consumption and I don't pay, you'll have to pay for the rest that doesn't make self-consumption. That's not fair. Besides, the receipt has to be degreased. It's loaded with taxes. Mr. Andueza, that's what you have quite a responsibility for. We're still paying for the 2010 game, the one that you set up. The current self-consumption regulation allows the orderly development of self-consumption and the proper distribution of system loads. The aim has been to establish minimum requirements to ensure the safety of the electricity system and the efficient management of networks. The Constitutional Court has annulled some articles of the Royal Decree. And, Mr. Grajales, you who are so scrupulous with the Madrid regulations, so exquisite in what affects competences, why did you not resort to this royal decree if it is so fantastic to have such competences? Why didn't they resort to it? Big question. Indeed, they nullify the article prohibiting several neighbors from sharing the same production facility and the articles regulating the centralized registration of facilities. Both areas should be regulated by the Autonomous Communities. But you had to do the inspection of those companies and communicate the data to Madrid, and you didn't. Now they have it as a rule and because the court has said so. I think it's fantastic, to do the duties they weren't doing, and to pass the data to Madrid so that there's a single general record. What they were not doing now they already have, the Constitutional Court has told them that they have to do it. They have a great job ahead of them, the Constitutional Court eliminates the prohibition of sharing a single production facility, but tells the autonomous communities that they must regulate shared self-consumption. This has not been put on the first point, and that is why we are going to abstain, because they have not added something that the Constitutional Court has said, which has to regulate it, but so that it does not affect the financial and technical balance of the system. That's very important. And to see how they do it, very important. I welcome the fact that it is the autonomous communities that have to regulate shared self-consumption, so that it does not affect the financial and technical balance of the system, and, with regard to registration, there has so far been a central register managed by the Ministry of Energy, in which all self-consumption facilities have to be registered, but the autonomous communities had to do the inspections to ensure that, and they did not do so. And now I think it's fantastic. That doesn't make you any fun, because you weren't exercising it. They now have to do so because the Constitutional Court has said so. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the registry will be managed by the autonomous communities that will communicate all the data to the Ministry, and there will be a registry for each autonomous community and a general registry, and that seems fantastic to us. I will wait for the reply, but you have spoken here that we are starting a debate on energy; we are not starting any debate on energy. There is no energy debate here. You refuse any debate of energy, of energy transition, and so we go.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u50	Thank you, Mrs López de Ocariz. To conclude this speaking time, by Elkarrekin Podemos, Mr Becerra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u51	Thank you, Mr President, President, head of the department, all of the legislature. Before we begin, I wish to congratulate all women on her day, to congratulate them on her worthy struggle, but also because they are making history in the street today. It is true that we do not choose to be men, but we do choose how to behave and also what we say and what we do not say. In the thread of this subject, we share our team with self-consumption, and we vote for EAJ, PSE, and the middle-class meeting. Because it's enough? No, this agreement isn't quite enough, but our team will act with responsibilities, and, in spite of the critics in the government, we'll vote for it. As I say, we are in favour of electric self-consumption, not only of the shared electric self-consumption that is going to be voted on today, but of all electric self-consumption, and therefore we believe that this agreement that is being voted on today is insufficient. But although it is insufficient, we will act with the necessary responsibility to vote in favour, because we are in favour of electric self-consumption. We are going to counter our responsibility in voting with the lack of responsibility shown by the Basque Government so far in this area. When in 2015 the Government of Spain enacted Royal Decree 900, it was already known that it was a real decree totally harmful to the sector. A decree that prevents you from producing your own energy and consuming it when you need it, unheard of. A decree that prevents you, if you produce renewable energy, to turn it over to the network and that bill you the difference between what you have consumed and what you have produced, unheard of. The obstacles imposed by this royal decree, the insurmountable administrative obstacles, the sun tax, called a "back-up toll", has a single objective: to guarantee and safeguard the benefits of large electricity companies and, at the same time, to penalize and punish the production of renewable energy. Because renewable energy is already cheaper than fossil energy, and because distributed renewable energy is already endangering the business of large electricity companies. And this was the only goal of this royal decree, to keep the business, to keep the oligopoly, to put doors to the field, in short. In view of this situation, the Basque Government, for several years, has acted, as I have said, with no responsibility. He hasn't done anything. As Mrs López de Ocariz has already said, they could have appealed to the Constitutional Court, as Catalonia did. They didn't. They could have adopted the alternatives requested by this Parliament in 2013 and 2015. They haven't set up a single one. The Government has been a silent accomplice to this illegality. Why? Not to piss off Iberdrola, not to piss off our big electric company, not to piss off our oligopoly. And this abandonment of functions, this servileness of the government towards the big power companies, has had negative consequences for Euskadi. The first is that last week we talked about the need for an energy transition, and we talked about that renewable energy is essential in this energy transition. Well, today we can add that it is not only that renewable energy is essential in this transition, but that this renewable energy in Euskadi, the development of renewable energy is impossible without self-consumption. Because Euskadi cannot produce renewable energy with large installations, it has to be produced with small installations, and without electric self-consumption it is not possible. That is why today we have been anchored in 7% of renewable energy for 10 years, without moving a single tenth. Because without self-consumption renewables and energy transition are impossible in Euskadi. Meanwhile, in 2017 Germany has produced, installed, 13 times more renewable energy than in all of Spain. And, of course, this has obvious consequences, and that is that energy costs for Basque companies have risen by 60% over the last 10 years. We should begin to wonder why energy costs are rising in Spain and not rising in Germany. Why the Basque industry is increasingly less competitive than the German one, because we have higher energy costs, because we do not produce energy in a distributed way. And the only solution found by the Basque Government in this context is to go where the Government asks it to lower tariffs to certain electric sections. They have not gone to ask you to repeal this royal decree; our Basque Government has not. He has applied the solutions that are not uncomfortable for Iberdrola, and so we go. It does not bother Iberdrola and, in return, leaves helpless citizens and companies who want to make electric self-consumption. I don't know what you did since 2012 to defend and force self-consumption. And it wasn't Euskon's order that MUKM didn't fulfill the interests of the Basque society, or the interests of the corporations, or the interests of the community, or the interests of people who make self-consumption. And we've got to be very critical about that attitude, and that's why we're going to vote for the half-way, but not for that attitude of yours. We will, as I say, support this transaction between the Government and EH Bildu, but it should not be interpreted as support for the Government, but as support for self-consumption. It is not going to be a support to remain the same, but a support to drive the changes that will allow the development of renewable energies in Euskadi. It is not a support to maintain the sun tax, but to build a fairer and more equitable electricity system. And it is not a support for a centralized system in the hands of Iberdrola, but for a decentralized electricity system, in the hands of Basque citizens. We will therefore vote in favour, because we are looking for the end of oligopolies, and we will vote in favour, because we really believe in energy democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. You will take the turn of reply, by EH Bildu, you have the floor, Mr Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u53	I want to say a few things now, which I think gives me time. Mrs López de Ocariz, I believe that in your account there are several things that fail. One is that when it is said that the self-consumer has to face the costs of the system, I do not understand what you mean, because the self-consumer whenever he is hiring energy from the system, is facing the costs of the system. And what you are not taking into account, what you have not said, is that that part of the taxes that are not collected by the system of that part that is self-consumed, is much less than the effect that it causes on the price drop to all the fact that that energy is being produced, which is being self-consumed. Because we all know that renewable energies, in this case photovoltaics, what it does is pull the price down, because it introduces energy into the system or consumes it at zero price the kilowatt. So if we balance it with the two of them, the system wins economically. I mean, the back-up toll doesn't make any sense. It is a completely dissuasive measure for the use of self-consumption. I think this should look a little better. Because you complain that we say that Spain is at the head of the obstacles. We do not say this, says the International Energy Agency, which made a report saying that Spain's self-consumption regulations are the most restrictive in the world. You say that Decree 900/2015 facilitated the implementation of self-consumption. I tell him that he did the opposite: he has finished the possibility of developing self-consumption in Spain. Otherwise, as Becerra has said, she talks about a comparison with Germany. I give you another, from that moment Spain has less self-consumption facilities, with forty and peak millions of users or inhabitants, less self-consumption installed than the Brussels region, less than a quarter of Portugal, at this time. With this, you can't come to me here to say that the real decree what it does is facilitate, because from the real decree what has been there is a completely absolute blockage of self-consumption development. And the numbers are there. You, if you want, deny the numbers and deny the reality, but they're there. And I think this is well understood by an example, which sounds like a joke, but the reality in this case is a little bit like a joke. If you want to install a plate, a plate, a single plate that costs you 200 euros plus the installation, about 400 euros in your home and you want to plug it into the network, this current system will ask you for processing, to have that legalized, registered, a connection point with the distributor company and will require you to: technical memory, unifilar scheme, application form of annex three, representation documentation, cadastral sheet, plan with proposal of the connection point, zero injection certificate. You have to apply for the council's works license. You have to request a technical contract from the distributor that includes a form of main characteristics of the installation, self-consumption form, electrical installation certificate, technical conditions of the connection point, acceptance of the connection point, certificate of compliance and regulation of measuring points, certificate of network operator. It must also make the autonomous registration and must submit it, requesting, if it has to request the registration, present proof of compliance with the administrative procedure, proof of record of commissioning, declaration of the technical characteristics of the installation, technical memory, unifilar scheme, plans of installation, certificate of authorized installation, certificate of electrical installation, certificate of compliance and regulation of measuring points, certificate of network operator, technical contract, registration in the register of consumption, management of a commercial contract. For a solar plate that will never pour a kilowatt onto the net. And all this paperwork is going to cost you 1,800 euros. Do you in Portugal know what you have to do to do this same operation? Make an entry in a telematic log in five minutes from home. And you come to me to say that the real decree what it does is to facilitate and that what the Spanish Government does is to boost self-consumption. This is designed to ensure that there is no such development. And I would like to mention one last thing about what the Becerite said: it is true, it is not enough, that it would be easier if we all had repentance and had done it among all. But about that and about the government or EAJ paper, I think we need to start moving the orientation frame here. It seems to me you have hitherto followed the Egyptian policy of Spain, that you protected the law of 1987. You protected the law of 2013, which is the foundation of being now in this state, among others. Eta orduan, Azpiazuk room horretan honela esaten zuen: "We have made a satisfactory compromise with the government, reducing by half the tolls borne by energy consumers who are subject to access rates equal to or greater than 30 kilowatts, i.e., companies and mainly industry." This was the purpose and not the bad aim, but there are other things in protecting it, self-consumption, and all these matters. I think it's important to think about this, and from now on, apart from being a very religious policy, when we look at Madrid, all consumers and other policies for self-consumption. That's, I think, the joint down here, and I think it's important to take steps in this sense too. Otherwise, it will be the same as in the year before, Mr. President. That's why we're looking at Spain again. You tested the prestigations of 2017, and once again you promised to go down the bills of 30-36 kilowattts for corporations, and we're always in a jam when Spain will accept our demands. Well, what I said has to be looked at and everything else has to be looked at. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u54	Thank you, Mr. Otero. I have the floor for the Basque Socialist Group, Mr Andueza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u55	Thank you, chief. Briefly. Mr Becerra said that the Basque Government has not asked for a derogation. The Basque Government will not have asked for it, but without a doubt the parliamentary groups that have signed this transaction are asking for it today, as we have asked in the last parliamentary term, we have asked for it here, there and where it is needed. Therefore, dress it as you wish, but it does not cease to be an application for a derogation. Mrs. López de Ocariz, call it tax, call it tax, call it whatever you want. It doesn't stop being a penalty, it doesn't stop being a step back, it doesn't stop being a punishment. He can wear it as he pleases, but, after all, it is still a way of preventing people who can opt for self-consumption from doing so under much more feasible conditions, without having to suffer a penalty. I don't care in the form of a tax, in the form of a tax, call it whatever you want. The truth is that it would be an important step forward that would not be penalized and that exactly the opposite was the trend, that would be the incentive. Within that need that we have to start in a real and effective way a more than desirable energy transition, we understand that that would be a determining factor for that message to have social permeability and people to believe it, to see it as something feasible, as something favorable, and to decide on that option, which is still a future option. Therefore, we understand that the way is not through penalization, but precisely the opposite, through encouragement. We understand that, in this regard, the Government of Spain has much to say and much to do. Why? What happens when what is generated is not enough to cover consumption? Mr Otero said, there are people who can be found in the thesis of, even counting on self-consumption, not having enough and having a double penalty. That person is being punished and has to face him, because his self-consumption is the consumption of the general network. It doesn't make any sense. We understand that there are ways, that there are tools, that there are possibilities for such a penalty not to occur. Anyway, you've come here to do a little less than an official newsletter. I am convinced that Mr Arriola will have taken good account of everything he has said. You'll appreciate your information, as I appreciate it, but let me tell you what to see to believe everything you've told us. What I really would like is for them not only to be good wishes, but indeed to be effective and for the Spanish Government to believe it, because it is very necessary and decisive at the moment. And the debates that are taking place will be taking place in Europe. But I'm convinced that no one believes that. That is to say, the position of the Spanish Government, the data that you have put us on the table today, we can believe them, but they have no sustenance and, above all, they do not have a vision of the future that really puts us in the weasel of making possible that energy transition that society is already demanding of us. He said there was no debate; I think there has been more than enough debate. Not in this legislature, it is a debate that comes from previous legislatures and that you yourself have starred here and have had the opportunity to debate. I am not going to argue with you that the debates can be more or less silent. There will have been debates that have remained superficial and that have not been enough. Nor do I believe that in this Parliament, and depending on the powers we have, we can debate in greater depth. I think that moment will come as soon as possible, most likely, because it is already in other chambers, it is already in institutions, it is already in society itself. And many times society, fortunately, advances us in some things and pushes us, and it will make it possible for those debates to which you refer, debates of greater silence, to have them in a short time in this very House. Finally, I fully agree with Mr Otero: that Royal Decree of 2015 narrowed down, set limits, limited, was little less than a veto on certain issues. And the reality is that, somehow, we are in line with the countries in which we supposedly or among which we should supposedly be, not only on this issue, but on so many issues. We therefore understand that a timely correction would be correct and, in some way, before any other kind of institution was pronounced, would require a much more in-depth, much more sincere, much more honest debate, not only with society, but with the environment, on the part of the Government of Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u56	Thank you, Mr. Andueza. For the Basque Nationalist group, Mr Grajales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u57	Bai. Eskerrik asko, yellow friend. Very briefly, as I believe that this debate no longer gives much more of itself. Mr Becerra, be calm, you are going to support a compromise amendment that you did not even amend when it was tabled a year ago. Don't worry, you won't even be appointed a councillor today for supporting an amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Party, which defends or encourages the Government to do something and the Government of the State to do something else. Don't worry, it's okay. We know that you support the text you support today, we all agree, but I do not know what you are coming here to say "we support the text, but we do not support the Government, because the Government does not defend the interests of this country". Man, that the Government on this particular issue has not lodged an appeal, is that the only way? Has this parliamentary group not raised the repeal of that royal decree in this House? Yeah, right? I mean, has the Podemos Group in Parliament, in the General Courts, tried to repeal it? Is that why I have to say that the Members of Podemos do not defend the general interest? And to me what seems tremendous is that when we're talking about a negotiation, then we'll talk about the loop, let's think that here there are those who have the ability to pull everything out and that what they don't get out is because they don't want to and that they take some interests over others. To me, sincerely, without any complex, to have tried, and advanced, we will continue to try to make Basque companies competitive with others, it is not only a priority of this government or of the Basque Parliamentary Group in Madrid, it is a priority of the whole Basque Nationalist Party, and we will continue to try, among other things, because that is what many workers in this country depend on. I agree, Mr Otero, with many of the things you have raised and not with others. In any case, I have to say that your criticism today has been much more correct than Mr Becerra's. And I agree that it is a shame that there is a Statute of Autonomy that after 40 and so many years remains unfulfilled. I also believe that it would not have to be a normal way for this Statute of Autonomy to have been developed on the basis of the needs of the government in Madrid and the stability that minority groups can give it on certain occasions. But unfortunately, today, I do not know any other way of doing so, nor do I think they have been able to tell us what is the right way to go in that direction. In any event, I insist that the Basque Government has not requested the repeal of that decree does not mean, in any case, that we have not repeatedly protested against it. We have another problem and it is that this royal decree touched upon the basic legislation, in which we could not enter. Now it seems that, by the verdict of last year's sentence, we will be able to do so. That is why the Government is committed, or we are asking it, rather, to commit itself to bringing in a draft to legislate on this matter before the end of the year. What is fun is to hear here that this royal decree has facilitated urbi et orbi the self-consumption in the Spanish state, when it has not really only not facilitated self-consumption, but has taken root in the development of renewable energies in itself, that is, a business that went to Spain, to the country of the sun, and turns out that it is standing in line with countries like Germany, to set an example, because it has its theme. The best of all is when they say, "No, we've made the decree, we've removed it." It seems that the person responsible for this is not the one who does it, it is the one who does not complain, that is, the one who does it never has the fault, it is always the others. And I'm done, Madam President, let me finish, please. Mrs López de Ocariz says that we are reliving all the debates on the subject of energy. It won't be for those of you, Mrs. López de Ocariz. In any case, I invite you to do so and we will continue to debate. Although, as Mr Andueza told you, right now discussing with you on these matters is like discussing directly with the Official State Gazette, which has little, let's say, to contribute to the reality and the future of what the energy transition has to be in this country, among other things, because you do not believe that there has to be an energy transition in this country, but that what we have to do is wait for what others tell us what we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u58	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Basque Popular, Mrs. lópez de ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u59	Yes, thank you, Madam President. I have not mentioned before the amendment tabled by the Nationalist and Socialist Group, an amendment which said that the Government continues to work on the promotion of cogeneration, that it continues to work on renewable energies, that it continues to work on energy efficiency, that it continues to work. If you continue to work as before, then you will get tired little and the result will be zero, because we have done nothing in promoting cogeneration, nothing. In energy efficiency we are legislating a cod, I told you the other day, if you want to repeat it. In renewable energy we have done nothing, and it tells me about renewable energies and old models, those plates that at night also emit energy produced with gasoline. What model are you talking about? He says I look at the bulletin. I, you are absolutely right, I am not backed by any multinational or super-powerful company; I look at the rules that govern in this House, therefore, in that you are very right. Mr Andueza, you were talking to me about a model for promoting an energy model. Here I have discussed some aspects that affect energy, but if you read the interventions that have been made, both in 2015 and 2016, we have not discussed an energy model, because this government has never wanted to discuss an energy model. The basis for an energy model has not been laid on the table. There was a start of a wind deal, wind model, and he was paralyzed and that must have been about eight or ten years ago. Why? Because it generates noise and we don't want noise. Since we do not want noise, we have stopped the promotion of renewable energies because the counselor has already said this, the most affluent one or the one that has the best results is wind energy. And where do we put them? It's just that we have a problem and we don't want noise, because we don't move forward and there we are. Look, do you know what the renewable power of the Basque Autonomous Community is, which contributes above all to the national total? 0.9%, we occupy the number 13 position of all the autonomous communities. The numbers are, not bad, the next thing. But I said it the other day and I say it today. The counselor said "to me the percentages that the state, the member states, have committed, I don't care, they don't affect me, they affect them." He doesn't mind bringing in. No, they don't care, we don't want an energy model debate in this House. You now in the government can, as you do, focus on whether we have that debate at once. And I, in conclusion, want to say that someone here has referred to the fact that there are fellow Members of this House who are on strike. No, they've taken the day off, they're partying. It doesn't affect our labor law, there's no strike for us. They're partying, day off, I don't know, they didn't come. But they're not on strike. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u60	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u61	Mr. Grajales is absolutely right. The biggest problem of not amending a proposal with which we fully agree is that you then arrive and empty it of content: you take away the net balance, you no longer talk at all about the sun's back-up toll and you just talk about shared self-consumption. But, still, we are going to vote for it because, as I say, it is not that we are voting for the government's attitude, but our bet on self-consumption. Note how bad this Royal Decree 900 is that at a time with the Constitutional Court that now has Spain, in a lawsuit between Catalonia and Spain, that this Constitutional Court gives Catalonia the reason, see how the Royal Decree has to be. A Royal Decree that to put only a solar panel, if the administrative regulations are not complied with, you can put up to 60 million euros of fine, and a Royal Decree that states that inspectors can enter the homes where solar panels have been placed without a court order. Let's get an idea of the kind of Royal Decree that is being partially overthrown right now by the Constitutional Court. But, beyond that, I was concerned to hear from you, Mr. Grajales, when you talk about back-up tolls, privileges and exemptions. At no time in Spain are there privileges and exemptions, on the contrary, Spain's sun tax is 30% more expensive than in Germany, and it is also arbitrary, it is not even based on a real calculation. This was said by Iberdrola in 2012 in a report that he presented called "Analysis of self-consumption in the Spanish electricity sector", which said "until a tariff is designed that strictly reflects the correspondence between costs and tariff concepts, a back-up tariff will have to be implemented". As I said, without taking into account the correspondence between costs and tariff concepts, a back-up fee will have to be implemented. And zas! In 2015, with the same name we set a back-up fee. And already said Minister Soria at the time, "many decrees come to us already written from Unesa", which is the patron of the great electrics. For this is one of them, written in part by Iberdrola. The only thing I have said is, what has this government done to repeal that decree? Nothing, I say it again, nothing. In 2013, they neither resorted to it nor sought alternatives. In 2013 this Parliament approved a non-law proposal signed by you, where it said: "In case the Royal Decree comes into force, the Basque Government will analyze concrete proposals to promote the self-consumption of electricity". Where are they, Mr. Grajales? They're not. In 2015, another one was approved. This time not with its signature, but with that of the Socialists, where it was said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Government to submit a report analysing the impact of this regulation on the deployment of self-consumption in the Basque Autonomous Community". Where's that report, Mr. Grajales? It doesn't exist. I have therefore not lied when I said that the Government has done nothing about it, because it has done nothing about it. But I will give you only two data to finish, to illustrate to what extent this toll of support that defends this Royal Decree is wasting the Basque economy. Look, the back-up toll is not applicable to all facilities. In Germany, the exempted installations are those of less than 10 kilowatts, i.e. small ones. Do you know which facilities are exempt in Spain? Those of the big producers. Conversely, here the big one benefits and the small one is harmed. But of course, what's going on? That when we look at who owns the renewable facilities in Germany and Spain, in Spain we find that they belong to the big companies. In Germany, 40% of renewable installations are in the hands of individuals, 10% are in the hands of farmers, 9% are in the hands of industry itself, 7% are in the hands of municipalities and regions, 11% are in the hands of banks and 15% are in the hands of engineering. In the hands of large companies there is only 6% of renewable energy in Germany; here, everything. The result is that our companies now have 60% higher energy costs than they had 10 years ago. The consequence is that the Basque industrial sector is at a disadvantage in relation to the German industrial sector, French and many others. And I will tell you one thing: the Basque industry does not care who produces electricity, what they want is to have energy, clean and competitive electricity, and so far the government has done nothing about it. And I only hope that, with the affirmative vote of our group and that of others, this will change once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u62	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Now that we're done arguing, we'll vote for EH Collect, okay? Yeah? Si?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u63	For points, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u64	Yes, just a moment, please. There's no problem voting for points, is there? Bale, didazu snag medity; one on one side and... All right. So we're going to vote for EH Collect, the EEscal Socialists, and the 1st point of semi-correction signed by the Eucalists and the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 46; supporters, 37; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u65	So the point number one is accepted. Next, we vote for number two. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 46; the supporters of 37; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-08.u66	So the second point is accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and eleven.
