ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First of all, say that the first point is left for another. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, Joseph Ramone Becerra Carollo, introduced together as members of the Podemos, about the 5th line of Metro Bilbao. Discipline and final resolution. On the stage of the proposed team, the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Becerra, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. Where's your mind, there's your leg. In politics, the word, in keeping the promise given, is generally a matter of will, and serves more to fulfil the promise than to have the means. Where the spirit, there the leg, is that of the subway. what's missing in line. There is no lack of a wish to substructure, no intention of fulfilling the word given to the inhabitants of the Atlantic nervous Union, and there is no intention of developing public transports. There is no intention to build metro line 5; there is no intention to build metro line 5. And it's not a money problem, it's a lack of will. There is no intention of building metro line 5, and there is no intention of fulfilling the promises given to the citizenry, nor is there any intention of developing public transport in the region. It's amazing what really happens in this country: The government proposes a infrastructure and doesn't keep its word, people proclaim a infrastructure and ask me to fill it with the word "Manady," the government finally decides to discard the infrastructure. And that's what happened on the fifth floor of the subway. The government proposed in 2006 to make the subway line 5, it didn't happen to people, it wasn't people who proposed to make the subway line 5, it was proposed by the government. And after 12 years of anger and people had to create a platform, that they had to gather 40,000 signatures to build the subway line, without knowing when, or how, or if there was money, or with what money, the suspicion, today, is that the subway line 5 is not going to be made. Mr Rementeria made it clear yesterday, the Nationalist Group made it clear with the amendment to this motion. It's not a money problem, it's a lack of will. And having no intention of building metro line 5 leads us to an increasingly Basque custom, which is not to keep the word. Projects are announced, often improvised – such as that of the Basque Y; projects that do not have a budget, such as this one on line 5 of the metro, are announced; agreements are signed that are not complied with and empty of actual content. And it begins to be a common practice in this country, despite what is sold from the word Basque or Basque. It's played with people's expectations, it's played with their frustration, it's played with their rabies, it's played with their anger, and it's played with them getting more and more political flaws. They are playing with the people of Galdakao, with the people of Basauri, with the people of Etxebarri, facing people even among them, facing people of the region, then doing nothing. And unfortunately it's no wonder we don't keep the word in this country, especially when we talk about the public transportation. Public transportation is always the last, and the priority is always in private transport. The priority in this country remains the private vehicle, and the private vehicle takes political intent and has nothing to do with money. To this day, the deputy general of Bizkaia has already announced that 200 million will be spent on finishing the Supersur, 200 million euros in four kilometers of a highway, 50 million euros per kilometer. Yesterday, at General Councils in Bizkaia, my partner, Nuria Atienza, defined Supersur as a cement desert. I think it was short: it's a golden desert. It is a gold desert that does not reach 50% of the traffic that it promised in its day; it is a desert that has cost us 800 million euros already, the most expensive highway in Spain, 50 million euros per kilometer. And now we're going to put in another 200 million euros. One billion for the Supersur, one billion for the Zubieta incinerator... There is money for what you want and there is no political will for what you don't want. Yesterday, Mr Rementeria said, in a statement of sincerity, that not everything has to be underground in this country and referred to line 5 of the metro. He did not, however, refer to the Supersur, which is also underground. He said that many times what is meant to be done is neither sustainable nor environmentally nor financially, and he referred to line 5 of the metro and, however, he did not refer to the Supersur, which has left the public society Interbiak with a debt of 950 million euros for a society that barely has 50 million euros of annual business. But together in Podemos, we defend public transports, and yes, we think we ought to keep our word. And we are dealing with the inhabitants of Galdacao, the Savage, the House, and the United States of Nerves, and the inhabitants, and we wish to speak to them, and to defend the inhabitants, which is why we have introduced this motion in order that we may build the fifth line of the subway. Our group Elkarrekin We can indeed believe the word given. Our group Elkarrekin We can believe, and bet on public transport. And our group Elkarrekin We can bet on responding to the daily problems of people's displacement. And that is why we have tabled this motion and we advocate that the metro line remains in force, that the metro line 5 remains necessary and that there is a need for real commitment from the institutions in their favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u2	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ugarte... Mrs. Ugarte? Mrs. Ugarte? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u3	Well, good morning, everybody. I won't spend too much time studying the subject either. In theory I agree with what Mr. Becerra has said: that the public transport must be encouraged, that the use of the private vehicle should be rejected, and that the public policy should be directed in this direction. But when we take it to the practical case, I think Podemos does not succeed together. He hadn't invented it with the project of the South Railway, and he didn't even guess how to defend the 5th-line project. And, well, the reason is very simple, and it's like, "Esupon Christmas itself is making a difference in theability of this project." There are alternatives. The Basque People collected a project from the people of Galdaon and the Wilder. There was an alternative to that project. This alternative is much cheaper, and that alternative makes it question L5's project. Well, then, at last we've agreed to a middle-class party and the Socialist Party, and that middle-class party, that's what makes him doubt, isn't it? He says that the public transport must be encouraged, that this public transport must be connected with the Euskoren's lines to Galdano and to the Galdako hospital, which is precisely those which require great population cores or great movable cores, and L5 would at last be a double of that project. I mean, to give you that service, we don't need a subway line. There are easier alternatives, because there are L5a Fat de saco. It's Galdao, a town of 24,000 people, who don't have a railway connection, and we think it's absolutely necessary, but that it's necessary with the Basques, not with the L5 line. Then, as we see this, we believe that this medium is somehow able to put this alternative project on the table and consider it seriously, for this is what we have agreed on at the first point. That is to say, let the different propositions and alternatives which are now on the table be examined. And then we think it's good news to put aside the project of L5 and move on, which is the most important thing, to secure connections. So, at the first point, what have we done? Secure those connections. I mean, Galdao and the Galdakao Hospital will be connected. And they'll be connected to the railway, with a supported public transport, and in that sense, I think it's okay. The second point, even the proposition of Podemos, was very connected with pres, wasn't it? And I think there's a popular point, which I don't like, because I've been handling, but public resources are finite, and we can't be in a constant hurry with different projects, constantly rushing, wandering, and studying, to develop different projects. Because doing a project of this kind, a execution project, a project of alternatists, but doing a execution project, it's a very expensive thing, and I think we can't sleep a sleep. I think together, Podemos' planning, as I said, a lot of sleep together. I believe that in this discussion of the Biscare Transport Authority within, and that it is a matter which ought to be worked on in this strategic plan which is developing, we must examine it, and, evidente. That is, Prebium Prebium And then finally, the Basque Country has an obsession, we got it in the gym, but it hasn't been made in the rest of the territory, and it's the only card. I mean, we're very focused on sub-structures, making new infrastructure and making great investments, and we have no thought to make that transport an intermoking, so that one person can travel from one place to another with the same card, so that there may be connections, so that this public transport may be organized and intermolarized, and so on. And I think, in that sense, that Podemos has lost a chance together to promote it, and in the middle I think that's what we've accomplished-that is to say, a few years ago in Gipuke-that's the time when we got it in 2018 in Biscaia. Finally, the problem is not to be connected to the public transport in Biscary and not to be executed by a single card, reasons are economic. And we think that there must be much better practice than he has done with other operators, and we believe that he must be doing much better than he did at the Euskák. And to admit here today that only one ticket is required to produce mechanism and to encourage interviews, we think it's a good outcome for the Basque People. And I just think the agreement is good, at least in our part, a great satisfaction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u5	Gracias, señora presidenta. Good morning, everyone. Well, EH Bildu's representative said you can't do things fast and running. Well, man, hurry and run, precisely with line 5, they haven't been made. We are talking again in this House, indeed, about the Bilbao metro, in this case line 5. This group has on many occasions put forward proposals aimed at completing the Bilbao Metro lines, both line 4, which was very recently debated in this House, and line 5, which was also not long ago brought, we brought to debate in this House. And we are glad that not only the People's Group, but also other groups like Podemos are committed to these infrastructures. And he was saying fast and running because there are some infrastructures that carry a lot, a lot of delay in Euskadi, like the subway. The subway has had delays on all lines. In 2012, for example, line 3 had to be completed and it was completed five years later. And it was also said that as soon as those works on line 3 were completed, they would begin with the works on line 4 and line 5. In 2011, a report by the metro managers themselves – we're talking about seven years ago – defined what the horizon was going to be until 2020, and on that horizon line 5 already appeared. Moreover, to the neighbours of Galdakao himself, in May 2015 the Vice-Transporter transferred that same to them, what I said, that after the end of line 3 we would have to talk to the Diputation in order to continue with some lines, in particular, with which we are discussing today, line 5. In addition, I pointed out that it was the suburban project that was most advanced in all its previous phases. This line appears, I have said on many occasions, in the various electoral programmes. It appeared in the 2012-2016 legislature, one of the commitments was the development of lines 4 and 5, but in the previous legislature little was done. It was also on the agenda of these elections, both of the Basque Nationalist Party and of the Socialist Party, and it is in the government agreement, although it is true that there they speak of design and planning. I've asked these questions many times, and I'm going to ask them again. How long have we spent planning and designing? When will Galdakao's neighbors see that the works pass from paper to paper? When will you be able to see the layout of this line beyond looking at Wikipedia? Since 2003, documents such as the Railway PTS had been calling for action in Galdakao. The line has gone through different textures and designs - first were two stops, then Bengoetxe's, then Galdakao Hospital, later Usansolo - to connect with the Arratia Valley. What we have said on other occasions. It seems that until 2021, at least, the works will not begin. In other words, what was demanded to be started in 2011, ten years later they won't see even the primordial stone yet. This line had to be completed in 2016. Two years later when it had to be completed, we still continue to study and plan. The truth is that the position of some parties is very different when they are in the government, when we are in the elections, or when we are in the opposition, forgiveness, or when we are in an almost pre-electoral year in municipal and outlaws. When I was lehendakari Patxi López, I was councillor of Galdakao and I remember perfectly well that then the municipal government of the PNV was tearing its clothes for the lack of commitment of the Basque government to the municipality. It was then demanded that a timetable be set and, of course, that we reach Usansolo. How different what happened next, right? Now, in the words of the adviser, we have to be at what is decided on the basis of the vertebration of the different means of transport, when what has to be vertebrated is the territory. Now we have to be on demand, but weren't the demands studied when this line was already offered in 2010? We must continue with the necessary studies, but people do not travel in studies, gentlemen, people travel in wagons. The compromise now should be not to continue with the studies and with a planning of when and under what conditions we can deal with it, this should have been done already. The truth is, we don't see that there's a commitment. What would the parties that support the Government say if other governments only talked about studies and planning and never executed the works? The municipality of Galdakao has about 30,000 inhabitants, to which must be joined all those who come to the Hospital of Galdakao and who would be affected by these works. The neighbors – and I'm going to quote his words – when this was discussed at General Councils a while ago, they said they felt stupor. Neighbors have mobilized, made concentrations and demonstrations, collected nearly 50,000 signatures in favor of the line. Some are filled with the voice of the citizens; for the voice of the citizens of Galdakao is very clear, it has become clear. What are you going to do? Are these voices going to dishearten? She pointed out, to which it seems that EH Bildu has also joined, that we must be at what the Bizkaia Mobility Authority says. But here it is that, without the Authority of Mobility having pronounced itself, the Diputación de Bizkaia has already announced in a drum and platter the construction of a double tunnel under the ria that will unite both margins. That aside from the fact that this infrastructure seems to us – the People's Group – to be a good infrastructure, a necessary infrastructure that even comes late because we as a group have demanded it on many occasions, the truth is that it does not take away from the announcement a clear varnish of autobomb, of tufillo electoral. Because one wonders, is the work now being announced because next year there are municipal and out-of-town elections? But who says that the work is now announced but then, when it has to be done, does not reconsider this work, it is not said again that we must do studies and planning, that we must vertebrate the different media... A work that is also announced outside the debate on infrastructure in Bizkaia. Its announcement said that it would be possible to finance it without increasing indebtedness, taking into account the economic context of sustainable increases in collection. That yes, it has already been made clear, and even clearer yesterday, that that didn't mean free bar for everything. What does this mean? That certain infrastructures do, but others do not. And the truth is that this is a good thing for the Basque Government, this work arises and then it seems that there will be no budget for others, such as line 5, and that means that the Basque Government, as the Chamber does not put its part, does not have to worry about the corresponding budget allocation either. And we want to make it clear again, the subfluvial of Lamiako we consider it a fundamental work, but complete the lines of the suburban, too. And we believe that it is already time for actions, commitments that go beyond planning and reflection, that you cannot submit to reflection and continuous planning what was already reflected and planned sufficiently 10 years ago. We believe that actions are necessary that involve the execution of works and infrastructures, that place a stake for sustainability, in a put on line 5. It is time to acquire commitment beyond saying that studies and planning are going to be carried out, it is time to start the works and tell what the execution phases are going to be. I think it's a very simple thing. The neighbors said this on their website to which I referred earlier, showing their amazement about the actions of the various political groups – some political groups – and the Basque Government and the Chamber of Deputies. They requested to establish a timetable for the implementation of this line, establish funding methods and review the priorities of vizcains and vizcaines in public transport. They pointed out that this was what had not been done and that what had been done and I quote textually, was "broken the partridge." The Basque Nationalist Party in Galdakao has again asked for the priority of this line, has again asked for a timetable for the beginning and completion of the work, after a few years of silence now asking again. He points out, and we share, that it is the only municipality of more than 10,000 inhabitants of Bizkaia that does not have a metro connection to Bilbao. Therefore, neighbours and municipal teams are asking what we are asking for here today, what they are asking for, Elkarrekin Podemos, and that we have also tabled an amendment in this regard. That we believe that a compromise is necessary, that we believe that a priority work needs to be declared and that deadlines for start-up and implementation should be set together with budgetary forecasting. We believe it is not so much to ask and we believe that after so long Galdakao's neighbors deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u6	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u7	Thank you, chief of the board, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. A few days ago we were discussing the future of line 4 of the Bilbao metro. Today we are talking about line 5, a new bet, a new advance towards achieving a more cohesive, better communicated Euskadi, a bet for a more accessible and above all more sustainable transport. I would like to remind you that this project, as has been said, is not a project that has been on the table for a few days. It is a project that, as some or some of the speakers in the previous speech have rightly pointed out, is a project that comes from the time of Mr López's government, which precisely pushed this line and laid or laid the first foundations for what we hope will become a reality in a few years' time. So from the Socialist Group we have a perfectly clear conscience. Because we have never got off this train, never better said; neither here in this Parliament, nor at the Bizkaia General Councils, nor even at the Galdakao City Hall itself. As I say from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have always placed on the train as a sustainable, accessible and above all comfortable means of transport for citizens. Undoubtedly, a project that, completed with other projects in the Euskotren XXI Plan, others that are being promoted by the Bizkaia Mobility Authority itself, I believe make it easier for this country to continue to make progress in the modernization of its infrastructures. But we, as a party that supports the government, believe that we must be cautious. And Mrs. Ugarte has told you perfectly as well. I think it is good that we prioritize projects, above all strategic projects of the kind that this debate brings us to today. But planning is required, the project itself needs to be developed in terms of its planning, and above all investment planning is required. And what do you want me to say? I have heard some of the speakers who have preceded me and I do not cease to be amazed. I do not cease to be surprised because, in the end, it seems that we are in a continuous contradiction or, at least, what you propose is still a continuous contradiction. Mr. Becerra told us that we are continuously improvising. I do not think it is an improvisation to launch the development of a project that has been on the table since the time of the lehendakari López. Unwilling. If we had a lack of will, we obviously would not have signed today the compromise agreement we signed with the EH Bildu group, which lays the foundations for development in terms of the planning and budgetary forecast that this project should have. They talk about what has come out in the press today, and yet it does not attend to what the groups that we support the Government have agreed with the parliamentary group EH Bildu. He seems to rely much more on what the press says than on what we say. There each one who places his trust. I invite you to read the transaction and see what we have agreed. It accuses us of generating social fracture, to whom and to whom we, that we were the first to lay the foundations of this project, precisely by agreeing with the City of Galdakao and even by consulting the citizens. In short, less demagogy and more responsibility, Mr Becerra. I understand that you have also wanted to come back to this Parliament, but in the end you always end up falling into the oldest and oldest political practices. Don't laugh. I understand you don't usually like this. And I understand that in the end they always look back on their goals in the next municipal and out-of-town elections. But what they want me to tell them, they must be quite new, they're noticed, because we caught them right away. You who are the kings of participation, you who are the kings of consultation, but it seems that you only want to consult your bases to know if your leader should resign or not resign from buying a villa, it turns out that you now prioritize a project, without even finding out that perhaps the Galdakao City Hall or the citizens of Galdakao should say something about it. Or do they no longer care what people say? Or all they care about is saving your leader's skin, which could also be. It turns out that you apply the maximum of responsibility, you demand responsibility from this Government and then it turns out that, without any kind of planning, without any kind of budgetary forecast, you come and say that this project has to go ahead yes or yes. Is that an exercise of responsibility? Have you been concerned to put some kind of amendment in the budgets of this Autonomous Community so that this project, which is so high on your agenda, can be developed? I would like you to answer me, because perhaps that exercise would have been an exercise of responsibility, a planning exercise, an exercise of good management, you who are so good managers and so responsible. Finally, I believe that the commitment to an infrastructure requires a lot more responsibility than the demagogic exercise of coming here to demand that I do not know what to the government. I am satisfied with the agreement we have reached with Bildu, because I believe that in some way it does indeed lay a solid foundation for this project to come forward. And it does so from the point of view of responsibility, making an exercise of possibility, asking the responsible institutions to make proper planning, so that such development is possible, and also making budgetary planning indispensable for this project to be a reality. That is called management efficiency, and this Government is implementing it and, moreover, it has no redundancy, but quite the contrary, in agreeing on such planning with other parliamentary groups, because that, precisely, makes it more possible. An exercise of rationality, proportionality, responsibility and economic sustainability. These are the next steps that need to be taken and I believe that it is also complemented by a third point, to which I am particularly grateful, which is the effort that we must make from the institutions to ensure that all operators are included in a single ticket, which is undoubtedly a step forward and is a firm commitment to public transport, in this case in Bizkaia, but which is a fundamental step in ensuring that tomorrow we also have a single ticket at the level of Euskadi. And we can tell you that this is a very important step forward; Mrs Ugarte, who has been responsible for managing, can tell you that, and we can tell you, we have also been responsible for managing this issue. And finally, to Mrs Llanos, I regret that the course of this government is what it is, and that we should be careful, and that we should not go to all the localities promising an arrival of AVE, but what do you want me to say? That's who we are. It's in our DNA, it's not our fault, it's not our style to go and promise things that we don't then fulfill. We are trying to do things in the best possible way, even if there are times when, of course, we may be mistaken or there are projects that logically expand over time, as I said earlier, because of a mere question of budgetary availability, a budgetary availability that, unfortunately, you too have been forgotten about this project that you are bringing us here today, because I would like to recall that there is no budget line, if at least broad enough, in the amendments that you have incorporated into the budget of this Autonomous Community so that this project can be brought to light as soon as possible. Therefore, being aware of our limitations, we will try to prioritize, as far as possible, this project, doing so from responsibility, from proper planning and as appropriate. I therefore appeal to the responsibility of this Government and, above all, to a compromise amendment between three parliamentary groups which gives sufficient majority, sufficient support for this project to be a reality in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u8	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Mr Becerra, I must confess to you that after carefully following the debate on this subject on 27 April, I thought that I would not be tabling a motion on this subject for a number of reasons. As Mrs Tapia said, you yourself mentioned several of the key concepts on this issue that day. You yourself said in your intervention, that it is the responsibility of the Bizkaia Mobility Authority, which is developing the strategic plan 2018-2028, and that in that plan must be set, with an integral and inclusive vision, how much money is needed to make the infrastructures and how they have to be organized, how to classify and prioritize these works, and when they will start and when they will end. He was also told that in July, that is, in just over a month, that strategic plan 2018-2028 will be delivered. That is why I understood that I did not present the motion anyway. However, and despite all this, and it is legitimate, of course, you have tabled this motion requesting that line 5 be planned, without that comprehensive vision. And in my speech, because I will be served by many of the demonstrations on 12 April, just as Mrs Llanos was served in the debate on line 4. In her reply to the above-mentioned question, the Counsellor informed you, Mr Becerra, and all the members of this House, with complete clarity and transparency, of the current concrete situation with regard to Line 5 of Metro Bilbao. How are the projects: they told him that there were the informational studies approved in the two sections, constructive projects also completed, and missing, or missing, the study of alternatives between the Hospital and Usansolo to analyze what is the best solution. Hence our first point in the amendment, in line with the resolution of 27 September 2016, approving the information study of the Galdakao Centro-Hospital section. He also told him what is the estimated budget of this work, about 270 million euros, and what is the current economic situation, the debt situation of the Government and the Parliament, which amounts, on 31 December 2017, to more than 374 million euros for the construction of line 1-2, and that they reach up to 2027, without counting line 3. Then you say that there is no commitment to public transport. Sailburuak zure interpelazian adierazi zizun bezala, bai eta Llanos andreari 4. lineari buruzko proposeamenan ere, projektu hau ez da lantzen ari soilik Bizkaiko lurralde historikoan, huta ere the study and projects of the connection of line 3 with the airport of Loiu, the arrival of high speed to Bilbao, the construction of the variant south railway, the connection of the metro with the Campus of Leioa, the construction of the variant railway of Ermua, precisely its new station will enter into service in January next year. And I think it was Mrs Llanos who said that this government had no commitment to Bizkaia. As you see, many projects, commitments to Bizkaia, and also to Gipuzkoa and Araba. Projects, projects, Mr Becerra, do not advertise works for advertising, as you said yesterday at a press conference. Projects, all of them, to improve the mobility of Basque citizens and which require reflection. Each of the projects must be analysed and the so-called cost-benefit assessed, not forgetting the above-mentioned financial situation. And you also shared with her, with the counselor, that when we talk about a subway line we should not consider it as an island, but rather as part of a complete and integrated transport system. We and we understand that all transport systems must operate in an integrated, coordinated and unduplicated way, where the rail network is the axis of public transport, as the Commissioner and the Member-General of Bizkaia have repeatedly said. Public transport must have an integral and multimodal vision, avoiding duplication. We support the integration of the transport systems. For this purpose we seek that economic, material, and human resources are independent. You also said, Mr Becerra, in the debate on 27 April, that any political leader in this country must be clear. He said, "Don't promise what you can't do, even if it's unpopular, and honest, to tell the truth even if it doesn't look good." I'd add something else. I believe that, in addition to being clear and honest, you have to be responsible and act seriously and rigorously, and then we'll talk about this. He was talking about giving the word, you mentioned giving the word. Well, I think we give the floor, the political parties give it every four years, and it translates into the electoral programs to which Mrs Llanos also referred. This too, if you want, then we can talk. The government programme of this legislature establishes a commitment to continue the necessary studies of lines 4 and 5. And what has been done? Well, clearly and transparently, the Counsellor was saying this: this commitment is what is being done. And I'll tell you again, I'll tell you what the current situation of the projects is. Therefore, we are clear and honest, as well as responsible, serious and rigorous. Mrs Llanos also referred to the electoral programme. Of course, so much to insist on the electoral program, one has the temptation to go and see what the People's Party says in its electoral program. And what did the People's Party say in its election program? So he said, with regard to the Bilbao metro: "We will board a certain bet on lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao metro". Then you usually talk about the terminology used by the Basque Nationalist Party. Well, you'll explain to me what a certain bet is. But also, intertwined with this, he said: "We will efficiently administer public resources, especially in view of the fact that the economic crisis in Euskadi has not yet been left behind, and we will carry out, under budgetary efficiency criteria, the works that are in the design phase." This was said by the People's Party and logically we can subscribe to it quietly. So, see how different it is, when you give the word, what do some say, what do others say, and then how do they act accordingly? I am not going to go into the issue of non-compliance with deadlines, because I believe that we have talked about this on more occasions. Yes, I'm going to go to investment policy and infrastructure. We believe that it must be done with good planning, reflection, cost-benefit analysis and preparation of all projects. Perhaps the dynamic of Podemos is another, I don't know if because he has no experience in governing, it seems to bother them that projects are made, so that at the necessary time they can be carried out and we don't have to start to realize them. A project of this magnitude has taken many years, among the informative studies, the declaration of environmental impact and, therefore, the Administration has to do what it has to do is to have projects, when the opportunity is presented, either by political opportunity, or by economic opportunity, to execute and carry them out. If they do not have the projects, and at that time they start to elaborate them, because probably the train passes, and never better said. Once planning has been completed and the cost-benefit analysis carried out, within the Bizkaia Mobility Authority, the appropriate decision will be made and, as I said, between all the institutions involved – Bilbao City Council, Bizkaia City Council and Basque Government – with all the completed projects and with all the seriousness and rigour of the world. And have no doubt, Mr Becerra, that it will be a satisfactory solution for Galdakao's neighbours and neighbours and their environment. It'll be hard to do things as well as possible, to provide the best solution to the wants of the case. The proper work is being performed by the informative ionter works, construction projects, investigation the cost of each work, and the best remedy for it. There has been talk here of suspicion of headlines following the words of Mr Bizkaia's deputy general, and how I knew this was going to happen, because I asked that Mr Rementeria's intervention be passed on to me, so that there would be no doubt. I will read to you literally what Mr Unai Rementeria said: "The railway is the key to modern transport. The subway and the train must be two allies. I would like to join the metro network with Galdakao and the Hospital de Usansolo, and to do so efficiently, taking advantage of the infrastructures that exist, combining and using the existing railway network with the improvements and new sections necessary to give an optimal service to the citizen." I am not going to continue, but with this I think it is clear what is the position of the Bizkaia Provincial Council, which coincides with what was also expressed by the councilwoman on 3 March in this House, where she said: "The railway network is the axis of such public transport; we must consider all modes of transport in order to seek efficiency, to give the best possible service, to avoid duplication and to seek the improvement of service to citizens. We need to focus on providing good service, good service, and responding to the needs of all people." I therefore believe that the will is clear: it is to solve the mobility problems of Galdakao, of the neighbours and neighbours of Galdakao and its environment, and to thank Mrs Ugarte for her willingness to reach an agreement, where, as Mr Andueza said, she has also incorporated the third point of support for the Government and the Parliament to achieve full implementation. The single card in Bizkaia is already being applied in some means of transport, and overcoming the current difficulties. We believe that it is essential to rationalize and prioritize resources. To govern is to set priorities, Mr Becerra. And in this line and before I finish, I would like to ask Mr Becerra a question so that he could answer it in this second round of intervention, which is very clear, I also imagine his answer, but well, without demagoguery, Mr Becerra: what would you prioritize, the line 4 of Rekalde or line 5 to Galdakao? Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u10	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing on the answers, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u11	You have spoken in your speeches about strategic railway planning in Bizkaia. Obviously, when we made this inquiry, we knew that there was such a strategic planning and that it was going to be presented this month. In June he had to present himself. But precisely, if we presented this motion, it was because of the fears and doubts that were generated about the content that such strategic planning would have. And today we have to say that, after listening to Mr. Rementeria yesterday, we were right. What has happened here is a clear concealment of the intentions of the administration in Bizkaia right now on line 5 of the subway. And it is not to do the project that was already proposed at the time. Don't do that project and do something else. What else? You'll have to see it. I had not had the opportunity to see this transaction that the EH Bildu group has signed with the Government, but I am greatly surprised. I'm enormously surprised, because you could have avoided it. I mean, they have the right to defend their position, but this, this amendment, this transaction is a transaction of laundering, of laundering to the lack of will that the government has been having after 12 years, because it is basically a kind of transaction of which they continue to work, which is what they have not done so far. In this transaction there is talk of an alternative plotting. An alternative layout that has no deadlines, once again; that has no budget, once again; that you do not know who will pay, once again. If it is a railway-based route alternative, the Bizkaia Provincial Council has no competence. The entire cost will be borne by the Basque Government. How are you going to pay? We know, we're delaying her, we're delaying her. But it is not only a money laundering transaction to the lack of will, it is a money laundering transaction to the lack of commitment of the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry to public transport. Even the Government itself has not spoken of using the cheapest alternatives or that resources are finite. It's funny I had to say EH Bildu. Yesterday Mr. Rementeria said, also textually, Mr. Zorrilla: "Three years ago we were able to say no to the great works because there was no money to be able to cover them, now we know to say yes, because we can pay it and it is good for Bizkaia". But it doesn't refer to the 5 meter line, it refers to the Supersur. It refers to the subfluvial of Lamiako, it refers to private transport. That is what Mr Rementeria refers to. There's money, but there's money for private transportation. And you with this transaction are whitewashing the clear intention of the Bizkaia Parliament to bet once again on private transport rather than public transport. And it's a shame, it's a shame. I understand that you want to put the single ticket on this issue, and it is also a very defendable proposal, but if there is no public transport, the single ticket is useless. The inhabitants of Galdakao where they go Put the one-off ticket in? Which canceller are the inhabitants of the Galdakao going to put the single ticket in? So, basically, this transaction is a tomato bleaching, it's a takeover and a whitening of the dark intentions that the government has had towards the people of Basauri, towards the people of Aperribai and Bengoetxe, Mr Andueza, places that are socialist voting, go now and tell them what are the bases of this agreement and explain to them the stabbing that they have just entered, because if they do not have line 5 of metro, with the railway line they will not have service. They're not going to have any service. Go and explain to the people of Etxebarri the social fracture that was created between Galdakao and Etxebarri by the subway shuttle, who are now going to tell them that neither shuttle nor subway. Not one thing or the other. And you, all these groups, go to Galdakao to tell the inhabitants of Galdakao that once again their priorities are being delayed. The inhabitants of Galdakao clearly have already spoken. 40,000 signatures picked up, 40,000 signatures, the whole town. In Galdakao there is no one who opposes the metro line, not even anyone who abstains from the metro line. This is a full-fledged betrayal of all the inhabitants of the Nervion-Ibaizabal region. And I also have to say that these plans are not new. Ms Tapia already said in November 2017 that they were studying other alternatives. It did so in the Budgets appearance, it did so in the Budgets appearance, and yet all the constructive projects on line 5 of metro have been continued knowing that other alternatives are being explored. 2.5 million euros spent in a bucket, when they already knew they were handling other alternatives. And I will answer Mr. Zorrilla: our priority, our response, line 4 and 5 of metro instead of the Supersur, which is, yes, a useless, expensive and unnecessary infrastructure.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u12	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ugarte, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u13	What a trap you are, Mr. Becerra! The Supersus project has nothing to do with this. It is true that resources are finite, that they ought to be organized, and that they are not at all. But, EH Collect, Dede Luego Therefore, the confusion and planning of both is not real, for if you know the competition of the map, you will see which one corresponds to and which of the other belongs. You're telling me what we're gonna do with it is that you don't have to pay for this line and you're gonna have to pay for the Euskés. When I was in the division, when I was in the Fordian Forum, I was defending it. I defended that. I believe that each has its own competition, and that each has its resources. The other thing is that we make all kinds of deals and we're planning here is to make a pact between the Double Blue Forks and the Basque Munch. But I'll tell you, though, I wouldn't have any problems. In fact, it's not exactly the kind of resource you've got on the Masters and the Aldudins that you've got. That's what the distribution is made for, according to the collection we make. So that's the first trap you plan on. The second question is that you are doubting that Galdato is going to be the subway. Galdato subway's coming up. He'll be here. He'll be here, but what do we need to spend, $300 million? Apparently L5 lines cost $300 million. We don't know exactly, but that's what they say, "las malas lenguas." Do we have to spend that because we said that once? Because you've made a match with some of your neighbors? Or should we be careful and look at alternatives? Do we have to drill everything? Make a lot of tunnels with the high cost of execution that's supposed to be, with the high cost of maintenance that's supposed to be? Or maybe we need to consider other alternatives that go underground and co-ordinately co-ordinately with the Eukots? Fndo de saco That's not politics to me. For me, you'll forgive me, but that's not politics. You have to make politics for me seriously. And politics must be made with the most serious means and always the best alternative, the most efficient, and the cheapest. And that's not L5 lines. That's not line L5, and you know that. And you know it's complicated. Does it imply that it's public transportation? The public is because he has public finances, and when we talk of the public finances, we should, I think, require more severity and seriousness. L5 line is very expensive, and it's not efficient, and it doesn't connect with the rest of us? Yes, the Galdacans will be satisfied with their experiments in some way, but everything else will be lame and it will be wrong. And then when we talk of intermodity, what are we talking about? That people will have to leave the subway and run for Eucot to connect to another valley, or what is it? Klaro, how do we want to structure the Biscay? Everything around Bilbo? What are we talking about? So let's not confuse private transport with constructions of new roads to promote public transport with sterile substructure suggestions. Because I don't think it's fair to do that. I think what we have to look at, and what we have to be clear is that it's on our proposition that there are no delays? It's true there's no time, but different alternatives will be placed on the table and it's what we're asking, and what we're going to be is very strict about the dates. We'll have to respect the deadlines, we'll ask for them to work for a short time, but we can't go on looking ahead, something to go straight ahead, because, as you know, the design of a infrastructure and an execution proposition can't be made that way. So, I think EH Collect says the L5 line opposition from the beginning, if there's a predisposition for the alternatives to study... Let's take advantage of that predisposition because it was wrong because it was the design of the L5 line. That was wrong. Then let us continue to demand that this agreement which has been made here will be followed and insisted on by the Transport Authority to receive it in that strategic plan, and that it will be in the budgets of the execution project and so on, which can be done. Beast gives Egypt a run forward of course
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u15	Thank you, Madam President, and I will try to answer... The truth is that in this House one never ceases to be surprised. Look at me in all the plenary, I say, there is no more capacity for surprise, because it is, it is. Mrs Ugarte, because I see you sitting where I see you sitting, really, because if not, let's go, your hologram is on the other side perfectly, because Mr Zorrilla can thank you, you have defended what the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry want to do infinitely better than the Basque Nationalist Party and that the Socialist Party, where it is going to stop, let's go. And you say, look, there's one thing that's been made clear and that Galdakao's neighbors have to be made clear: EH Bildu has always been against line 5 of the subway and will applaud with his ears when line 5 of the subway is not done. Because, as seen, it's not going to happen. The truth is that you hear him say that we have to act responsibly and that resources are not finite. Look, Mrs Ugarte, everyone is free to defend the issues as it may seem relevant, but there is also a saying that one is a slave to his words and owner of his silences and believe me that they are going to use it, I don't know if all EH Bildu members share it that way, but in more than one initiative the Basque Nationalist Party is going to take these words out but very often. And then in relation to whether that's not an alternative when you answer the Basque Nationalist Party I'll tell you. And well, and you said to bet on one, no, no, look, it's clear that the money – as you have said – look at the things I share with you, the resources are finite and as they are finite you have to prioritize and if you make the Supersur no longer arrives for line 5 and line 4, and that is so. You don't put in the machinery to have line 4 and line 5 because you're going to allow the Supersur to be done, that's it, that's quite simple. The Basque Socialist Party said prudence. I will use a phrase that I once heard from the spokesman of our parliamentary group, Mr Semper, "prudence, great doses of prudence". No, no, prudence doses you all have, nine years of prudence we've had, nine years of prudence. They said you can't go with promises, no, you presented a project, Mr. Arriola, a project of line 5 of metro, a project, what was that? Aren't projects promises? Projects are needed, not if there is already a project. And what's been going on for a while? Of course, as well as environmental studies, we have had nine years of prudence, studies and reflection. For real, we reflect more...! Well, let them tell Mr. Arriola in the bretes that the Basque Nationalist Party was putting him in Galdakao City Hall! And you were talking about listening to Galdakao City Hall and the citizens. That you have both spoken, that you have both spoken, Mr. Andueza! That the neighbors have spoken, 40,000 signatures, practically all the people, and the Galdakao City Council has tabled a motion that is being debated, if I am not mistaken this week, saying that line 5 is a priority. Line 5, not that project that you have now taken off the sleeve taking advantage of the Eusko Trenbideak line that you could, by the way, take advantage of to go to the airport, that it did have to be paid only by the Basque Government, but no, that's not it, that's where we're going to see if we're going to do this so that Congress can put it too. And you were talking about a comfortable medium, of course, is that comfortable medium on line 5 of the Bilbao subway. And to the Basque Nationalist Party I say the same thing, that there is no need to coordinate and that there is no need to duplicate, and Mr. Rementeria said that yesterday, everything new cannot be done. That this is not new, that is that this is not new, that this is old. And, look, I don't know if you know Galdakao. These are line 5 and Eusko Trenbideak. Yeah, yeah, they're parallel, but listen, what's on paper here has nothing to do with reality, nothing to do with it. Because, look, for in Ariz, from Aperribai is a short walk, and if you have to communicate or have to use public transport, through a bus or have to use the car. Zuazo, also a little far from Bengoetxe, from Aperribai, from the center of the village, right? Up all Juan Bautista Uriarte, a little far too. And Usansolo, well, he's a little closer to the municipality, but well, he's got his problems, too. That no, that are two different things, that doesn't give the same service, that it's not about running from one side to the other, that line 5 and Eusko Trenbideak have nothing to do, that go to different places. Now, that you have decided in this amendment to say but I do not say, that it is the amendments to which you are accustomed, what I am surprised is that Mrs Ugarte has lent herself to this. The amendments of peace in the world. Whatever the Mobility Authority says, the alternatives, the study. And well, yes, that, then the one-card thing, which Mr. Becerra has told you, because I don't know, in the wallet it will be very good for you to carry it, but come on, if you can't use it then, because it'll soon serve you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u16	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u17	Yeah, I'm finishing up. And of course, it's not "and you, what do you prefer, line 4 or line 5?" Mr Becerra said that: both of them. And we want the subfluvial of Lamiako, of course. Priority must be given to which are the most priority and which are the least. And it seems to us that line 4 and line 5 are priorities, but it seems to us that they have been priorities for a long time. A long time. And if they had already been done on time when it was promised by the Socialist Government, but then, for that, it was there, because now that would be completed and we could be talking about infrastructures that we can consider necessary and relevant, which are also lagging behind. – as I said, the subfluvial of Lamiako – but now they are going to make the citizens choose, when one should have already done and be affecting the other. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u18	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u19	Thank you, ma'am. One does not cease to be surprised, Mrs. Llanos, one does not cease to be surprised. Or at least I do not cease to be surprised, that I see the Lords of Podemos that the same thing opposes the high-speed train, that they say they bet firmly on rail transport. The same is true of the Serantes tunnel, because it seriously affects the urban plot in the towns it goes through, which also say that this project is a priority, without having any idea where it is going to go and without taking account of urban conditions. Doesn't this project have any urban conditions? Do you know them, when you don't even know them by the government? Just like you have a ball, you're a fortune teller and you know what's going to happen before others, I don't know your skills, here everyone has theirs, just like we don't know a facet that you have and that we haven't discovered yet, although the truth is that they are quite predictable. The same request for consultations for the most pilgrim, who give a damn what the Galdakao City Council or the citizens themselves can say, give a pepper. You guys modulate everything to your liking. You always modulate everything to your liking. Listen, or the same thing they consider this project to be absolutely irrevocable, to be absolutely priority, and not only do they not put a single euro in their budget amendments, which they do not even name in their autonomous programme. So what are their priorities? If you have presented yourself to the citizenry with a program that doesn't even say it's a priority for you on line 5 of metro. What are you playing at? What are you playing at, Mr. Becerra? I see you overly concerned about the Socialist Party's ballot box, but believe me that we have an infinitely greater sense of responsibility than yours. You, in addition to being the kings of demagogy, believe that you are magicians illusionists, and that you are suddenly going to pull out a rabbit and by the art of magic, by your intervention, here all citizens will have a subway line at your disposal. And it's not, Mr. Becerra, it's not. Politics isn't this. Politics isn't this. Policy is also responsibility, it is planning, it is economic sustainability. That's politics, not selling motorcycles to places trying to scratch four votes to other political parties, which is what you're getting used to, and that's how it goes so well, and that's how it goes so well. They talk about prevention by this government, in short, I don't know, I think they're politically quite hypochondriac because, in short, I think this government is doing what it needs to do, no more or less. He's talking about bleaching. Is it a whitewash for you to lay the foundations of planning for this project to be a reality? Is that bleach? Is that avoiding responsibility as a government? I believe that the projects are agreed, they are agreed on budgets, which is an exercise that you too must do, not enter into an initial budgetary negotiation saying no to everything, so that we will then take the colors out of them in any debate, because in your budgetary amendments you have nothing of what you consider to be a priority. Is it such a priority that there is not even one euro in your budget amendments? Is it such a priority? But he doesn't even show up on his government program. But what are you talking about, Mr. Becerra? What are you talking about? When they don't even mention that project in their government program. If it's such a priority, why are they hiding it? Or are they discovering things as time passes? Things are getting out of the joke, like I said, anyway. Mrs Llanos, well, for not getting into the competition issue, which I think Mrs Ugarte has perfectly explained to you, if you have wanted to understand it and if not, indeed, not. Mrs Llanos, for in the end, yes, because we are prudent, what you want me to say, we do not have the ability of Mr Iñigo de la Serna who is promising AVE stops in all the villages for what he treads. Just as you have to come here to explain how you're going to do it, you have to do it, you have to find something we didn't know either, and you have to let all the towns of Euskadi have a subway stop in your locality, because you have to find out, I don't know, maybe you have to come and enlighten us. Finally, an informational study or a project, because, as far as I know, Mr Arriola had an informational study, not a project, and I think, I imagine, that he will be able to distinguish it, perfectly in addition, so that he does not talk to us about a project when what he had was an informational study. They're totally different things. It has absolutely nothing to do with one another, in short, and I say exactly the same to you, is it such a priority that you did not even put in, even a budget line wide enough to develop absolutely nothing? Look, it seems like it's very fashionable here to teach papers. Do you know what you have presented tangiblely and with a minimum of seriousness for this project to be a reality? Look, I also know how to teach papers, this, a blank paper, absolutely nothing. Let's see if they're starting to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u20	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Llanos, do you really think that, if you could, the Basque Government and the Parliament would not face these projects? We have talked about the projects on which we are working; these and many more, many more would be faced. But we must act, as I said, with responsibility, rigour and seriousness, moreover, in line with what several of its leaders in Madrid said yesterday, who recognized that the Basque Nationalist Party is a responsible party, I think you have no doubt about it. And he also read his electoral program before, what he said corresponds to what is being done and is from a responsible party. "Administrate public resources efficiently, especially in view of the fact that the economic crisis in Euskadi has not yet been left behind and review, under budgetary efficiency criteria, works that are in the design phase". This was said by you in the electoral programme with which you presented yourselves, which is responsible, serious and rigorous; then it does not correspond to the initiatives that you propose here. Also, to tell you that you are stuck in the infrastructure, was told the other day by the adviser and yesterday also by the deputy general mentioned it. The infrastructure or physical support to provide the service is not key. The key is the service that is provided to citizens, that this service is of quality and efficient. Today, the mayor of Galdakao said that it will be good, if it connects the town in an agile, secure way and with constant frequencies, that is, meeting the mobility needs of the citizenry. Mr Becerra, he was telling us "lack of commitment by the Basque Government and Parliament to public transport". It fits well, but I will tell you: Line 1, 614 million euros; line 2, 858 million euros; line 3, 280 million euros; plus other actions in other territories, plus associated operating deficit; plus 140 million from the Department of Transport, Mobility and Territorial Cohesion of this year 2018, where it takes special Bizkaibus and the Consortium, and the debts and expenses it has to face in the Bizkaia Transport Consortium. Therefore, this lack of commitment to the facts does not correspond. With words you can say anything you want, but the facts say something else. And with regard to the question, since you already knew your answer, it was predictable, Mr Becerra, pure demagogic, in your line. I was asking you that, because, despite being a project, as you said, announced or presented in 2006, i.e. 12 years ago, and as Mr. Andueza said, on the Elkarrekin election program We do not have any express references to either line 4 or line 5. Its very extensive programme, with 898 measures, devoted nine measures to sustainable mobility and infrastructure. Previously, he makes a reflection, which, well, caught my attention and I'm going to read it, says: "A mobility system will be sustainable and viable if it is based on non-motorized transport. All other proposals, public transport electrification, intermodal platforms to launch metro, bicycle, bus and tram, are complementary to this central idea." This was said as an initial reflection. But analyzing the nine measures relating to sustainable mobility and infrastructure, of which four, four were nos, four were nos – not to the extension of the Port of Pasaia, not to the extension of the Basque airports, external audit in the TAV project at its passage through Euskadi, and not to the metro of Donostialdea – of the remaining five, no express reference is made to the 5 metro line, nor to the 4, although, as you said, it is a project announced there by 2006. You've had time to include it in your project, if that's a priority. This is a clear concealment of your intentions, Mr Becerra. Clarity and honesty, Mr. Becerra. Also, as Mr Andueza said, as is done with economic resources, we must look at what amendments to the government's budget have been tabled on this issue. Well, surprise! Despite being opposed and being an issue announced since 2006, Mr Becerra, there is no amendment tabled by Elkarrekin Podemos to launch metro line 5. You spoke, in your first intervention, that you play with people's expectations and anger. In some cases even induced, induced that rascal. And he said that we want to give our word to Galdakao's citizens and their environment. They have had an electoral programme, neither a reference, budget amendments, nor an amendment. You guys really like to pick up the witness on the banner. They have tried it with the pensioners, first they propose a rise of the IPC, they move that rise to Madrid and then they propose the 1,080 euros; they have proposed it with La Naval, they have proposed it with many companies. They've raised it with Rekalde's line 4, now with line 5. Where there is movement – let me express it – there you are, I don't know if I'm looking for vows, as Mr.Andueza said, but clear and honest, but let me tell you, little responsible and nothing serious or rigorous. And I end up repeating what I said on my first speaking shift. The competent institutions shall act responsibly, rigorously and seriously to meet the mobility needs of the Galdakao neighbours and their environment. Don't have any doubts. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u22	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote together in the middle line, which has been signed by Podemos and Euscal Populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 20; the opponents, 55; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u23	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. We'll vote for the second, the EH Collector, the middle line signed by Euskal Socialists and Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; for 55; the opponents, 20; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u24	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentary People of Euscal, the plan against the floods of Gastize. Discipline and final resolution. On the part of the proposed team Mrs. lópez, representing the Potula team, has the word in order to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u25	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Again we bring to this House an agreement signed by URA-Agencia Basque del Agua, in this case with the City of Vitoria, agreement for the implementation of the flood plan in Vitoria, in the surroundings of the Zadorra and rivers of the south, among others. Convention, one more, unfulfilled. Convention in which URA undertook, with 21.5 million euros, to implement the actions envisaged in that plan for the period 2013-2020. From 2013 to today, they have barely invested 24% of the expected. It should be remembered that the first phase and the first works to prevent flooding were carried out in 2005 between Eskalmendi and Gamarra, and that they stopped the conditions to the industrial polygons of these areas, works financed by the Government of Spain. These works were a great relief for industrial areas that usually, almost every year and sometimes even several times, suffered flooding. From the success of these actions, and from the need to continue to act, this agreement came. This year, between 9 and 12 April, it rained intensely in Vitoria. This again caused episodes of drowning in areas of the surroundings of Zadorra and isolation of populations such as Abetxuko, Asteguieta, Villodas, Durana, etc., causing difficult damage to quantify in companies and houses, but the agricultural sector has made an initial forecast and assessment. UAGA has given us a first assessment, and it says as follows: "The disastrous management of the dams carried out from 9 to 13 April this year has caused considerable losses on crops, fertilizers and agricultural land. 880 hectares calculates the affected UAGA. The total damage must be expected to be evaluated according to how the cultivation and growth of these crops are produced." Farmers belonging to the Board of Exploitation 17, the Baya, Zadorra and Inglares basin, of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation, to which the villages of the banks of the Zadorra from Abetxuko to Nanclares de la Oca have submitted a claim to the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation, in which they state: "The flood could be avoided but it was not made, for the apology of fulfilling the government curves at the Ullíbarri and Urrunaga reservoirs, which do not allow other actions more congruent with the defense against the floods." The cleaning of the Zadorra channel, which has been invaded for years by shrubs and fallen trees, and I'm going to show you some photos, for example, this is a photo, invaded the channel. This is another picture, tires, branches, trees that have been in that situation for years. As I told you, many initiatives in this House presented for the cleaning of rivers, never executed. If the rivers had been clean, the channel of the clean Zadorra, of course, the avenues would have been much smaller. URA has repeatedly been asked to clean up Zadorra, and has ignored it. Water has arrived in the airport area, but because of the breakdown of a bike in Gobeo, because they have never allowed to reinforce that bike, because URA refuses it permanently. The dirt and abandonment of the eyes of the bridges that cross the Zadorra from Abetxuko to Trespuentes is notorious and creates serious damage to the normal functioning of the Zadorra channel. No way. The cleaning of the Mamario Bridge in Margarita has been non-existent for years, creating a cap that affects the village of Margarita, the Jundiz polygon and the agricultural plots. No way, deaf ears. During 2013, 2016 and 2017 this event has caused serious damage to crops, and if it is not done, it will happen again. The opposition to the current curves of the government of the reservoirs is due to the fact that the farmers know as no one the Zadorra and know that the decrease in demand of about 20 cubic meters per year caused by less use by the industry, allows to lower the curve and to have a mattress for episodes like that happened. Both the Foral Diputación de Álava by the mouth of its president Mr Ramiro González, as well as from the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz his mayor Mr Urtaran, urged URA to undertake as soon as possible its part of the plan of prevention against floods, because, in fact, the City of Vitoria three years ago carried out the project of the phase between the bridges of Gamarra and Abetxuko, and URA has done absolutely nothing in these three years. He says he's gonna do it, but of course, so far, nothing at all. URA knows how to place duties on others, knows how to delay outstanding executions, knows how to look for excuses and will follow the floods. We are told that this plan is contained in the Royal Decree of the Hydrological Plan and that a scrupulous prioritization of the actions is carried out and that the risks per person, the goods affected, as well as the cost-benefit of the works must be evaluated. What a coincidence this mantra is only mentioned when we talk about the outstanding hydraulic infrastructure in Álava. They only use it there. None of this says – for example, tomorrow we are going to discuss a housing plan in your department, in this House – no more or less that we are talking about 1.3 billion euros, including chiringuito, of course. Only with the 10% of this can be affected by the outstanding works of Álava. What's the bet? What's the will? But perhaps it will be true what Mr Ángel Resa said in his column, the tragaluz concerning this matter. And he said: "Call me ill thought, and they may be right, but I fear that these much-needed works are unsightly, and appear in the window as a shoemaker. Come on, they seem hard to sell in the algarabía of the political market and it is difficult to translate them into nuanced and sounding votes and safe from the electoral riades. Okay, tell me suspicious." I believe that Mr Resa is right because, ladies and gentlemen, what does the Government tell us, what does the Councilman tell us? That we will speak when we touch, without reasonably neglecting the needs that may be most peremptory. Mr. Counsellor continues to say, because ladies and gentlemen, the avenues, the floods in Álava on the Mediterranean side only affect 2,000 people, and in Vitoria they affect 500, and that in the area Cadagua and Nervion affect 140,000 people. This is what the councilman tells us without changing. It is going to be true what Mr Resa says in his column, Mr Councillor, that these works are not very showy, they are very expensive, they are not very sellable and they are difficult to translate into votes, Mr Councillor. Ladies and gentlemen, we from the Group of the European People's Party to our own. And we will use this rostrum to repeat how many times the government's breaches are necessary and to claim the investments committed and not executed. That is why we are presenting the non-legislative proposal in this House. Proposal to which amendments have been tabled and which we have reached a compromise amendment which we have signed with the Podemos Group. The government group has set us some limits, some red lines that we have not been able to accept. I believe that there are points in this compromise amendment that can be adopted and voted in favour. I understand that they have at least some percentage of willingness to perform these works. We say in the compromise amendment: The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to undertake urgently the pending actions of the framework agreement in collaboration signed in October 2012 between the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz and the Basque Agency of Water-URA, for the execution of the works of defense against floods in the municipality of Vitoria-Gasteiz. We also say in point 2 that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, through URA and in coordination with the City of Vitoria and the Foral Diputación de Álava, to provide the funds that support the investment of the actions of management and prevention of defense against floods provided for in the framework agreement of collaboration signed in October 2012 between the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz and the Basque Agency of Water-URA. The Basque Parliament, we say in point three, urges the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz and the Provincial Council of Álava to urgently undertake the updating and implementation of the draft of the third phase of the actions of the Zadorra with the collaboration of the Basque Government in the drafting and processing of the draft through the Basque agency URA. And in point four, we urge the Basque Government to activate the necessary procedures to advance the actions provided for in the framework agreement signed between the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz and the Basque Agency of Water-URA in 2012, not contemplated in the first horizon of the Plan of Management of the Flood Risk of the Ebro Hydrographic Demarcation that ends in 2021; intensifying the collaboration with the City, the final definition of the project of the fourth phase of the actions of the Zadorra and whose drafting corresponds to this local entity, according to the said agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to insist on the need to contribute or to deal urgently with these works. We have explained to them the damage they repeatedly cause. We have explained the projects that are pending. They have been explained many times in this House, the councillor appeared about two months ago. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of will, it is a matter of prioritizing urgency and this is urgent, it is urgent. Therefore, we appeal to the sensitivity of this Government, if this Department has it, to make all the necessary efforts and also to attend to that urgency that was called for from the Álava Foral Diputación and the City Council of Vitoria. I think they are repeated damage, year after year, that they are suffering the same people and that they are tired, very tired, very bored of suffering these damage, year after year, with promises that they are going to be executed and we are in 2018 and this has the face of dilated 10 years. This, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we are in a position to admit it. That is why I appeal to the groups supporting the Government to support this compromise amendment. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u26	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. García, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Egun on denoi, or at least half of the House, because the other half has decided that it is not interested in this point. Today it is up to us to discuss a People's Group initiative on the anti-fouling plan for Gasteiz. This is not the first time that Basque and Alavesan institutions have dealt with this issue. The anti-flood plans of the Zadorra River, in its passage through the municipal term of Vitoria-Gasteiz, have been on the table for years, but they need budget, implementation programs, and ultimately political will and institutional bet for them to be carried out. The first phase of the Plan to Execute Works of Defense against Floods in the urban centre of Vitoria-Gasteiz was completed in 2004, but there are still phases two, three and four. Two of them included in the framework agreement signed in 2012. Partnership agreement between the Basque Water Agency and the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz. For Elkarrekin Podemos, it is important, as collectives like Zadorra Bizirik point out, to launch all the actions provided for in the aforementioned framework agreement signed in its day between the Basque Agency of the Water-URA and the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz to fulfill a triple objective, to reduce the risks of flooding by avenues of the river Zadorra in the urban center of Vitoria, to contribute to the ecological restoration of rivers and its banks and to make public use of a green space integrated in the park of the river Zadorra, thus giving continuity to the pedestrian and cyclist routes that form part of the green ring of the city. As I say, the framework agreement included phases two and four in addition to the hydrological and hydraulic improvement plan of the Eskibel, Torroguico, Mariturri, Ali, Batán, Zapardiel, Olarizu or Errekaleor rivers, i.e. the Plan for the improvement of the rivers of southern Vitoria, paying particular attention to the project of flood prevention works in the Batán and Zapardiel rivers, in the so-called Lasarte graveyards. The agreement signed by Mr Urrizalki and Mr Maroto in 2012 also left out phase three, as it needs an interinstitutional agreement, with the Álava Foral Chamber, and a partnership agreement that we do not yet know. We want to point out something that seems very obvious to us and that we have already told you on several occasions, when institutional agreements and conventions are signed, they are to be implemented, and they are to be implemented within the time frame agreed upon. And I say it seems, because the Basque Government is not fulfilling in the case of the works to prevent flooding in the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz, and it is not being fulfilled because URA does not put the money it committed. And to throw balloons out, instead of taking over and taking on the responsibilities that were agreed upon, we understand that it is a lack of responsibility. It is clear that the flood plan has barely been implemented in Álava; it planned to invest 21.5 million until 2020 to improve the Zadorra channel from Eskalmendi to Gobeo, but at this time only 5 million euros have been invested between 2012 and 2020, as Mr Arriola, the Environmental Adviser, Territorial Planning and Housing, said in response to a question put by our parliamentary group. And considering that half of these 5 million were to be destined, they were destined for the works of the Abetxuko bridge for the passage of the tram. Less than 25% of the agreed, 75% of the estimated time and time, having carried out minor works, but the main thing, which is the channel of diversion of the Zadorra river, is missing. In 2018 they have allocated an item of 300,000 euros with a total cost of 2.7 million euros. This shows in part the lack of commitment of the Basque governments in these years. And with this situation on the table, last April the Zadorra again overflowed and caused flooding in different parts of the territory, directly affecting the day to day and the lives of the people who live and work near and around the basin of the same. Following the framework agreement, phase two, which includes the defence works against flooding of the Zadorra River on the stretch between the Abetxuko Bridge and the Gamarra Mayor Bridge, does not have the budget secured for 2019. And the same goes for the works agreed upon in the graveyards of Lasarte, in the rivers Zapardiel and Batán, although the Government has committed itself to having it, but to have it we have to have a budget, and we understand that then we cannot promise something that we know is not going to be done. It must be borne in mind that what we are told by the Basque Government and the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz about these works is not exactly the same. That is why, in the amendment we were presenting, we urged the Basque Government to complete the works of phase two within the deadline set out in the agreement signed on its day between the Basque Water Agency, URA, and the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, allocating the necessary budget for this, as well as agreeing with the Arab Foreign Ministry a programme of implementation and a financing plan for the works of phase three, through the corresponding collaboration agreement. We learned in February that the actions in phase four are very likely to take place until 2027, i.e., this is envisaged from the Department of the Environment, until 2027, while the City Council sells a possibility of obtaining European aid that does not arrive and that could accelerate the actions to 2019. It's not the deadlines that were agreed. We don't even know where the money will come from to pay for phase four, because we don't even know yet, even if we don't know there's no signed agreement. In the case of flood prevention works in the rivers of the south as they pass through the engravings of Lasarte, we believe that it is necessary to accelerate the actions to carry out the works, which not only avoid floods, but also Vitoria-Gasteiz, the Green Capital, is spending 1 million euros more than it should to clean up river waters that end in the Crispijana Depuradora, because the works that would prevent them from entering the city's sewage system are not done. In fact, the studies are already done, there are even soil contamination studies and we know that it is contaminated. This example makes it clear that works to improve the environment are cost-effective. The work to prevent flooding in the rivers of southern Vitoria could be amortized in less than seven years; it is an investment and not an expense. Why, then, are they not priorities for the Government and the other institutions? That's what we're wondering. We demand a clear and firm commitment from the Basque Government to finance the flood prevention works in the Zadorra and in the rivers of the south of Vitoria-Gasteiz, in order to meet the completion deadlines provided for in the framework agreement, which are for 2020. That is why we have signed a compromise amendment, which Mrs López de Ocariz has well explained, calls for urgent action, updating and implementation of the pending measures and actions of the framework cooperation agreement signed in October 2012, and for inter-institutional coordination for the financing and progress of the planned actions. We regret that the parties that support the Government do not join this agreement, as for Elkarrekin It is not possible to talk about following, continuing, trying or seeing if it is possible, but about implementing, taking action and taking urgent action. We must comply with the agreements and act, and we must think of the citizens of the country and not keep looking elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Troubleon, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u29	Yes, thank you, Mrs. President, and good morning to all. I believe that there are things that have already been sufficiently explained and I will not repeat them again, but that, in any case, I believe that the diagnosis of the situation is absolutely indisputable. The situation of the southern rivers in the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz is a worrying situation. And we are even more concerned politically, because there was an agreement in 2012 to carry out the necessary works, which is not being launched either. At the moment, the mouth of the rivers of the south in the municipal sewer is one of the biggest problems we have, and besides, here I am going to incorporate a series of data: The rivers of the south provide an annual flow of 5 cubic hectares, that is, of 5 million cubic meters, the equivalent of 2,000 Olympic pools. And there are millions of cubic meters of clean water that are contaminated, precisely by mixing with the dirty or contaminated waters that are in the sanitation system and this is a terrible mistake. It is a terrible mistake to mix clean and dirty water, which from an environmental point of view is not understandable, but above all it also turns out to be an absolutely unnecessary daily overload in Crispijana's EDAR. But, besides, what happens at the times of the avenue, and the truth is that we are experiencing situations of this type this year that makes us not able to look elsewhere, the depurator overflows, and uncontrolled discharges end up contaminating the Zadorra. Let us also think, because here we have just mentioned the effect that this has on Vitoria-Gasteiz, but let us think of the effect that this has waters below the depurator, because the question is that it does not end here, it is the effect and pollution that is assuming all people living waters below the Crispijana EDAR. And for example, and I think that this is a very significant fact that makes the approach of this work even more urgent, are the data for the month of April. In April, we all know how this one that has been very rainy, with a high rainfall, have entered the sewage system 6,488,283 cubic meters. Well, almost half, almost half, 3,400,000 cubic meters, they've had to bypass. And this is a fact that I don't think we can afford, at all, any more. In addition, to this it joins that it is a constant threat in the form of floods to the neighborhoods of the south of the city. And the issue and the responsibility for all this, no doubt, is the responsibility of the Basque Agency for Water-URA, which has not fulfilled, moreover, this agreement signed in 2012, which included precisely in its third point the flood prevention works. And in these years nothing has been done, moreover, was worrying the response given by the counselor, Iñaki Arriola, in February, further assuring that these works were postponed even further until the next decade, to 2021-2027. Well, we, too, also argue that Gasteiz cannot wait another decade to carry out the flood works in these rivers. And besides, that would also affect all the neighbors of the south area and all the people who live down the water, and we also have some data on why to add, apart from what he has said or precisely add for the reasons that URA justifies not to do the work is quite the opposite, are reasons for URA to commit this work as soon as possible. Because we have to do this work, on the one hand, would solve the main black spot of the rivers of Vitoria-Gasteiz, and would bypass the repeated breaches that are made in the discharges of Crispijana to Zadorra. But in addition, we have and can pose that there would be significant savings, significant savings. The question and the data we have on the table are as follows: the contribution of the flow of the rivers of the south, edo hegoaldeko errekak, 5 milioi metro kubiko urtero daramate. Eta hor, ur guztia Crispijanan sartu egiten da éta trattatu egin behar dugu. Well, at the moment and the average treatment is $12 cubic meters, i.e. if we take it, if we hit it every year and multiply it with the average thing, it's that we're spending 1 million dollars a year with a water we don't have to deal with. That is to say, in round numbers, every year Crispijana's cleaner spends EUR 1 million to treat waters that should not pass through there. 1 million. If what we need from work is 6 million euros to start the initial phases of the hydraulic work, that means that Amvisa in 6 million would have perfectly amortized the cost of this work. And since we will agree completely with any group that brings here the necessity and defense of doing these works, however we will agree, but it seems to us that proposals can also be made, Euskal Herria Bildu made that proposal, first in Amvisa and then also adopted at the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz. And it is, first, that, of course, URA fulfils its commitments. But in case the problem really is a matter of financing, that Amvisa itself can advance the money to do the work, having the agreement that subsequently URA, responsible for doing it, returns that amount. It is an easy agreement, it is a simple agreement and it would allow, precisely, to unlock what is a necessity clearly and it would supposedly end with the main excuse that puts URA on the table so as not to do so. And that's what we agreed in March and that's what's on the URA table right now. And that's what we want URA to accept as well. Well, of course, our first option, no doubt, would be for URA to do what it agreed in 2012, no doubt. And if URA could and has the capacity to do so, that's what we'd prefer. If URA really has those problems that make us have to postpone the work, the second option would be that the work is financed by the money that goes on Amvisa, with a subsequent return of URA, so that we affect the project as a whole, we face the biggest problem that happens and we also solve the problem. The approach is quite simple and the question is that we expected, with this approval in March, both in Amvisa and in the City Hall, a pronouncement from URA. And we are once again faced with an issue that we are also concerned about in recent times. The director of URA claims that it is not possible to undertake this work right now because the City Council has not done the part that corresponds to it. And of course the City Council also answered us yesterday in a public commission, whose data can be consulted, which have all the project done to facilitate the works. And we do, of course, want the government to clarify what is happening to us. Is it a priority to do so right now? Yes or no? If so, let's take a step. Can funding also be committed from the Government? Let's take her in. Let's take it, no doubt. Is short-term funding a problem? There is a financing option on the table, which, of course, is profitable for Amvisa herself, because advancing the money is of course preferable to continuing to spend EUR 1 million each year on treating a water that should not be treated. The question I think is very clear. The ball is on the roof of URA and URA will have to say if it really is the City Council that does not have all the jobs it should have done; the City Council says it is quite the opposite, that it has all the jobs done. The point is that what we cannot be, because some think that the others and the others for one another, that we are all here the pagans of what is happening, when there is need, availability and agreement. Gentlemen, act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u30	Thank you, Miss Trouble. Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u31	Thank you, President, and good morning. Mrs. Garcia ended up saying that the agreements must be complied with. I agree, but what must also be said is the truth. And what can't be manipulated is neither what is being done, nor the economic investments, nor the commitment made by the Basque Water Agency. And Mrs López de Ocariz ended her speech by asking for the support of the two parties that we support the Government. Well, we're not going to support it, we're not going to support it, although I think we could have reached an agreement, I think we've all tried. Couldn't, and I'll explain why. The policy of the People's Party, in the opinion of the Socialists, in the historical territory of Álava seems to have become the constant axis of its criticisms, carried out on the other hand without any technical rigour, of the Basque Water Agency. No matter what is said and what is said, we understand that political advantageism is being sought from a strategy of looking for a culprit in situations such as, in this case, floods. And even though this is so, with much irony, the things they say can sometimes be comical, the truth is that the People's Party is instrumentalizing something as serious as the management of the water cycle, because today is not the first time this has happened. The vital importance that its good management has for any citizen, much more if we contemplate the socio-economic reality of the territory. We tried to reach an agreement, we said. I believe that Mrs López de Ocariz has also tried to do so to the end, and what happens is that we have not succeeded, we could have reached a good agreement, from the real will that the Environment Department is putting in place to implement the commitments that are being made, Mrs García, and not to create false expectations. All of this, in the search for solutions to the main problems relevant to the Basque Water Agency and our maximum collaboration in those problems that are not of the Agency, we understood important and necessary for the territory of Alava, for the Gipuzcoan and for the Vizcain. Because, yes, that is the competition, trying to find the maximum yield to the budget that is entrusted throughout the Autonomous Community. Budget that some do not even feel like negotiating. And it seems that the policy of the People's Party is also exploiting something as manly as victimism is, and it is a pity that it exploits it in the historical territory of Álava and is told by an Alavesa. It's a shame, because the facts contradict him and they're creating an unreal story that the Alaves cannot of course believe. URA's commitment to the territory of Alávés is a constant one that can be seen throughout the legislature. The framework agreement of the Provincial Council of Álava has been signed, which commits for the period 2017-2027 to undertake investments Supply and Sanitation – let us remember once again, of municipal competence – with a budget of 50 million euros by URA. 50, not 5, not 25 dedicated to what, 50. The agreement on the maintenance of the rivers of Álava has been signed, and at this point I encourage them to treat it with the utmost technical rigour, to do so for once. The most appropriate technical work is done to keep the water bodies in the best state possible, while respecting the habitats of their margins, we do not turn the rivers into pipes because they are not. The rivers must be alive and so we conceived technically from URA. What about the investment committed in 2012? Let us remember that this agreement was signed when the Basque government was the government of the Socialist Party with Patxi López at the head. By the way, Mrs López de Ocariz, you are supporting me. We are told that the investment committed then lags behind the forecast of the work that was done six years ago and goes on to the next cycle of the flood risk management plan 2021-2027. What is said is that the Basque Water Agency, this Basque Water Agency, is going to complete this agreement and so has Mr Arriola. And we are not talking about the importance of the fact that the only works envisaged in this plan of risk management against floods throughout the Ebro basin, are precisely the works of defense against floods in the Zadorra river, committed by URA, but it is not interesting to talk about this, is it? That it's an official plan published by Royal Decree, which we seem not to like, we want to obviate. It should be remembered that the Ebro flood risk management plan is promoted by the central government, Mrs López de Ocariz. That government which I do not know whether it will fall tomorrow or not will fall, but of course the competence of the People's Party in Spain. And I will not go in to explain that the prioritization of the actions is carried out according to technical criteria of cost-benefit, yes, of cost-benefit, not of party and electoral interest to a year of the municipal ones. But it is a logical concept to understand when dealing with the economic cost in the face of the benefit first of the danger in human lives and second of the material loss. Anyone could understand this calculation and apply this criterion to the prioritization of actions. What has to be highlighted and made clear to me, is that the agreement signed between the City Council and the water agency has not been dusting in a drawer. URA has invested more than 6,400,000 euros in anti-flood defense works in Vitoria-Gasteiz. Investments including bypass As regards the pending proceedings in accordance with the agreement signed on 24 October 2012, URA will bid in July 2018 the works of the Zadorra Flood Prevention Project, Phase II. Actions between Gamarra and Abetxuko. The favourable report of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation was obtained and submitted to public information prior to final approval, which was completed this Monday, that is, on Monday, 16 April. Environmental processing is under way and the relevant impact statement should not be delayed. Therefore, the actual start of the works would be, presumably, at the end of 2018, and will end a year later, that is, at the end of 2019. The City Council, for its part, must make available the land necessary for the execution of these works. It is recalled that the actions already carried out on the bridge and on the bridge of the former Abetxuko, are advanced works of this phase II. The next commitment of URA is the phase IV to which Mrs García referred, the section between the EDAR of Crispijana and the Gobeo bridge, whose drafting is the responsibility of the City Council of Vitoria. This phase IV is not contemplated on horizon 21 because we do not want to lie, because we cannot introduce it if we cannot fulfill it. Phase III of the Abetxuko al Gobeo Bridge is the subject of the City Council's commitment to other institutions, including the Parliament, which has to achieve a new, truly important bridge for the Altube Highway over the Zadorra. In the same sense and with regard to the execution of the works of defense against floods of the rivers Batán and Zapardiel, it is also not envisaged its execution in the horizon 21 of plan of management of risk of floods, but already counts, it is already done, the favorable report of the Confederation Hydrographic of the Ebro for its execution by the Basque Agency of the Water-URA. And after all this, you say we're doing nothing, so the Basque Water Agency does nothing. Man, saying that you're not investing in the Historical Territory of Álava is that it's lying, it's lying and pretending to tell a movie that's not real. There are the Agency's budgets, there are plans, and there are three institutions involved. This is what has been achieved, I think it should not be obviated. It wasn't much. I think we should not demagogically because it seems that we break our clothes in a very pharisee way when we hear that when the actions are committed, despite all of them, the growing rivers will continue to occupy the fields in flood zones, especially in the unregulated basins, because they are that flood zones and because we understand it or not, the regulatory role of the Embalses is tremendously important in the fight against floods, but we should not forget that the entire Zadorra basin is regulated by Embalses. The Basque Government is urged as a matter of urgency to undertake the work of the 2012 agreement without taking into account the flood risk management plan as a legally approved higher standard. Well, when we get to this point, yes, we say it loud and clear, we are ready to undertake these works as soon as possible, as quickly as possible, as quickly as possible, as the budget we have and the technical prioritisation criteria already set out, so we will soon have to negotiate the budgets, we will wait for their amendments and their votes. And we are willing to explore all the funding possibilities that will enable us, Mrs Larrion, to address the commitments quickly and, if possible, to move ahead with the deadlines set out in the IMP. We cannot and should not make compromises that cannot be made, let us not again fall into mistakes of the past, in that bad practice of kicking forward, here we approve everything and then we will see if we comply. We urge both the Basque Government, the City Council of Vitoria and the Parliament itself to deal with the agreements signed as soon as possible and to explore possible sources of funding from any of the institutions that could enable them to move ahead with the deadlines. I think this is a more than serious issue. I think the People's Party uses it more than it should. I think we should work without demagoguery, without guilt, without looking for short-term income, because I think the beneficiaries will be the Alaves and the province of Álava and we should not forget it. I believe that there is no need for them to understand the vote against the government parties on the amendment they have agreed. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u32	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief officers, good morning. Well, we thought we were going to make a deal this time, because in the negotiations that we've been negotiating for the past few days, we handled and seemed pretty close, but in the end it wasn't possible. The debate we have today follows the agreement signed in 2012, and, excepting one case, we are generally speaking not about the propriety of these measures, but about the degree of perfection. I believe that all the groups are clear that the solution to the floods in Vitoria goes through the measures included in this agreement, beyond that somewhat outdated concept that you, Mrs López de Ocariz, have of what the cleaning of the rivers entails. The cleaning of the rivers does not involve tearing down and peeling the channels. That concept is a little out of date. The solution is to collect the flow of Batán and Zapardiel in the engravings of Lasarte, thus preventing them to pass through the subsoil of Vitoria, contaminating themselves with the waste water that saturates the depurator of Crispijana, as Mrs Larion has said, adding five million cubic meters per year over a total of 33 million, which represents a considerable percentage. The focus has been on the previous debate on the level of compliance with this convention. An assessment has been made, in our view somewhat biased, negative. For starters, it has been said that it is an unfulfilled convention when it is a convention that expires in 2020. There's still two and a half years left. There are four phases in it. The former was already effectively implemented when the convention was signed before 2012. In the second phase they have invested 1,600,000, including a work that was not initially contemplated, such as the restoration of the 15th century Abetxuko bridge that has an average protection regime, like the rest of the bridges that are on the river Zadorra, and a total amount of up to 4 million euros will be allocated over the next two years to complete it. The fourth phase will be presented at Urban Innovative Actions. The City Council, AMVISA, and the Government itself will do so to see if this budget can be advanced to start work in 2019. And there is a third phase mentioned in the convention, but it is not included as a commitment for URA. I'll read it to you, it's very brief. Horrela dio: "In the Castle city, the third phase of the protection of Zadorra against the floods of the river is approximately 8 million euros from the Abechor Bridge to the Cape Bridge. It doesn't come back into this arrangement, because the Gastine Towns will deal with the finances agreed on by Acacebro or other institutions." Acuaebro, es decir, Ministry de Fomento, es decir, Gobierno central. And what happened to this funding that was supposed to come from Aquaebro? Well, anyway, today, he's not here, he's not expected. There were talks about 2014, and what Acuaebro was proposing was not to finance it as such, but to grant a loan to the Basque Government. That way has been closed, not because the Government does not want it, or not because the City Council or the Government does not want it, but because there is no such financing. And, therefore, we have a phase III stop at City Hall since 2010, without funding. We do not deny that there are other institutions that should be included in this convention, since there is the national road 622 passing over the Zadorra and it is the competence of the Parliament. But come on, the fact that one of the protagonists should be the central government, that is clear, and is currently absent. Therefore, Mrs López de Ocariz, I would kindly invite you in your turn to explain it, if you have had discussions with the Ministry of Development, to explain to us a little what timetables you manage to agree and provide the budget for this work, as was foreseen in 2012 in the above-mentioned agreement. Finally, you have signed a fourth point – we can and People's Party; we understand that Bildu will support it from outside – which quotes, "intensifying the collaboration with the City Council, the final definition of the project of the fourth phase of the actions of Zadorra and whose drafting corresponds to this local entity according to the aforementioned agreement". Indeed, and as I have heard before, I believe that Mrs López de Ocariz and also Mrs Larion just confirm, because I am aware of recent conversations with the City Council of Vitoria, that this project is already done and is already being delivered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u34	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing in responses, representatives of the Basque Potula Group, Mrs López de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Briefly, to respond to the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist group. It tells me that my concept of river cleaning is very old. Is the flora and fauna of tires, glass bottles, a centenary cross tree typical of a river channel? Is that the typical one? Well, it'll be in your town, I don't understand. This deserves a cleanup, and this makes a plug, and the plug that is made here when there are large avenues causes flooding. Something as basic as that. Well, that's it. Mrs Red, did I misunderstand you or did the Socialist Party tell me that we should not seek electoral results? You, today, tell me that? I'm surprised. He also has to go to Congress and participate in the debate. Mrs. Red, tell me about the unreal story, the unreal story. Look: "Álava urges the Basque Government to resume the anti-nundations plan as soon as possible", deputy general of Álava, municipality of Vitoria, Mr Urtaran, Mr Ramiro González. Ramiro González said: "URA has to work to implement this agreement as soon as possible." To the deal. It does not speak to me of hydrological plans which, by the way, Mrs Red, hydrological plans are derived from the Water Framework Directive, they are not marked by the government in charge. No, no, You had an obligation to do so and did not do so, and a fine was imposed on the Government of Spain for its non-execution. Remember this? Urtaran said: "It is the right time to ask URA publicly to start the phase between Gamarra and Abetxuko as soon as possible." And we don't have a budget. Three years with the project done and no budget. More stories, Mrs. Red. You have signed with the People's Group initiatives in this House for the cleaning of rivers. Not one, several, and we are as we were, without touching the rivers and without authorizing the cleaning for those who want to do it. And I've told you what the groups say, the Operation Board 17 of the Bayas, the Zadorra and the Inglares basin, that the flood can be avoided, that the cleaning of the Zadorra channel has not been executed, is not done and that's what I've taught you, how the Zadorra river is at many of its points. I was talking to him about the abandonment and the dirt of the eyes of the bridge crossing the Zadorra, from Abetxuko to Trespuentes, which also causes the great avenues to overflow much faster, Mrs. Red. That hasn't been done. It does not act on those critical points. Only 24% of the agreement has been implemented. Things have been done, but that has not prevented the great avenues from overflowing and continuing to flood what they were flooding, and if you do not ask the people of Villodas, the people of Durana. Ask them, go see him, a bridge that had to be modified and that has been unchanged for years, and promises, hundreds, and meetings with neighbors, hundreds, to do nothing, Mrs. Red. And he talks to me about something that draws my attention, the cost-benefit. Look, me, it's going to be that this government repeats it as a mantra, cost-benefit balance for public investment understanding, these last two concepts in social, economic and environmental terms. They are saying that they prioritize works according to the affected population. And Mr Arriola has already told us that 500 affected inhabitants in Vitoria is no priority. So what do you think of rural development, and sustainable development? Don't they exist for you? What action will you present for sustainable development that assesses that no one is left behind? Why this is one of the actions to be evaluated within the objectives of sustainable development. They don't care about that. You don't care about rural development. It's the population, by that rule of three, Mr. Darpón wouldn't have to have any health centers in the Álava Territory, just in Vitoria, would he? And Llodio. No, no, Nor should there be schools, because, of course, if we are going to look for cost-benefit-population, which is what you are looking for, because we would be empty. Look, we have to make a friendly rural environment, where people can live, without having extortions permanently due to the inaction of a government. The Government must encourage services to be diverted to rural areas, in order to avoid depopulation, because people were being emptied and something had to be done. And you don't, you do the opposite. You focus only on cost-benefit-population. I thought we'd gotten over that, really. I thought we were in the 21st century, we thought we were betting on a friendly rural environment...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u36	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u37	... that invites people to live in it, not that they send them out. And that's what you do for many people in the Vitoria environment, who see your communication channels flooded permanently, every time there's a flood. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to think more positively and not just to save the hideout of the URA Department. To spend on what interests me, not what is a priority for citizens. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u38	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Together, Podemos, Mrs. García must not speak. EH Collect must not speak. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u39	Mrs. López de Ocariz, I don't even know where to start. He says, electoral records, that we look at Congress. Look, if I hadn't agreed with Pleno the same way I would have gone, it's about political interest. Like, if the situation wasn't the way it is, you wouldn't even have to start trying to make a joke. Look, if I were you, I would have shut up. You try to get to political revenues with water management, not today, always, uses the rural area. You want to manipulate, miss the truth, Mrs. López de Ocariz. And the picture he brought us with tires, bottles and all that, when was the picture? Do you know that a channel cleaning agreement has been signed, which is signed and functioning? It's just that ignorance doesn't relieve me of responsibility, it doesn't make me like that, that you have to prepare the issues a little bit. That you have to see what agreements are signed and what works, and it's signed and working. Therefore, the photo may be of Zadorra, Ebro or Guadalquivir, I don't know. But please don't manipulate. You can't talk about the cost-benefit, talking about neither schools, nor outpatients, nor what, as if the situation of the Basque rivers is now going to turn out to be responsible for making the villages more empty. It's just that you're pure demagoguery, Mrs. López de Ocariz, you're missing the truth of everything, you haven't responded to anything I've told you. What about all the works and investments that have been made in water issues? It's just that nothing is true of what he says, and the municipal ones will continue to approach and how you love this subject, because it will bring them people to people. But let's see if the Government of Spain, if it doesn't fall, is going to fall. But if he doesn't fall, let's see if he asks for the responsibilities of the money he has to put in, huh? Because of course I do, little by little. And you really like to ask here and on the other side they bring you some pictures that I sincerely believe you are being deceived. I believe that the issue of hydraulic works must be worked on together. I don't think we should lie to the citizens. I think we have to tell them that the budget is what it is. And URA, Mrs López de Ocariz, cannot become the tool of the pim, pam, pum in this Parliament. Because it wasn't created for that. And you know that this topic was addressed in Amvisa. Ask how the debate in the City Hall ended, because neither the photo is current, nor what you have told us is true. That's not true. There is a compromise and you were telling me that in the City Hall and the Chamber, that the heads are of the PNV, they say that urgently, that as soon as possible the works are done. Of course, I also told you in my first speech, that we agree, that we want them to be done as soon as possible, that there is the cost-benefit characteristic, that there is a budget, that there is a planning, that there is someone else who thinks, apart from URA. And that you could also bring a little, a little sanity, to start with, a little technical judgment, a little seriousness and not manipulate. Because behind those people that you say you care so much, that it is people of the people, that they need services, of course, there are some investments that Mr Arriola defended, from the first appearance, when the legislature began, to the last appearance in the last budgets. By the way, that you voted in favour, because it seems that you have arrived here on a spaceship and met with a budget, as if in 2012 Mr Lopez was there alone, with the support of whom, because the first agreement for these investments were from 2012 with the lehendakari López at the head. The last budget of the Basque Government has also been supported by the People's Party, and you are blatantly lying about the issue of hydraulic works. You can't create false expectations, you can't tell the citizen that you are in a GNP and then you can't do it, because I could have done it, I could have signed it, we could have voted for points even, but I think there are times when you have to tell the truth, because here I don't come to win votes. I'm here to do politics, López de Ocariz. And you again use the theme of hydraulic works and never look, never to responsibility. And I will tell you more, when demagogy is the only element that is used to make politics, one ceases to be credible, and you always demagogy in what has to do with this subject. You know as well as I that we could have reached an agreement, you know as well as I that I accepted three of the four integral points of what you proposed, you know that what I asked the political party that less it had to matter to you was you. I understand that Bildu being Euskadi alone would not want to, but you, a state-level party, I think we could have reached an agreement. I conclude, Madam President, by saying: The Basque Government, with Mr Arriola's Department, has clear commitments in the hydraulic works, there is planning, there is a budget and there is collaboration between the three institutions involved. But I think, I think that being the policy at the level at which it is, today more than yesterday, we should not lie and tell the citizen what you know can't be done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u40	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians shouldn't be part of the team. So, since the discussion is over, we will first vote and then, one day, we will add the letter to the EH Collect Group. Add correction, first and once. Add correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u41	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the Esquical Populars and the middle-term correction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u42	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Provide another proposal of the law made by the Parliamentary Group, in regard to the guarantee of independence in the EIB news. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The Representative of the EH Collect Group has the word to present and defend its own initiative. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u43	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. There's a kind of butterfly that just gets born and dies immediately. Efímera I mean, the day a reporter goes out of his professional career to get into the EIB Template, his professional career ends there. I mean, finito. Birth, wings spread and die. There are certain specific rules of game-enforcements that have to be followed by conditions, such as academic headlines, language skills, driver's license. There is a tribunal, the representatives of the workingmen are also present, and they establish exact criteria, arrange examinations, and guarantees, transparency, and above all a fundamental principle: Because it's an EIB public company. Any citizen who meets the requested conditions, any professional could present himself to these auditions and compete for a job, because EIB, as I have said, is a public media. And I think it's a pleasure for everyone to get a square of ETV. It's the largest media in the Basque Country, the only public. It is an honour to be among the elect, and to work in the service of this people, and above all to do what you love. But when you enter the plane with great joy, and, contrary to conjecture, the road begun ends. From that point on, there is neither of any occasion nor merit in a professional career or in a vertical manner, nor even in a horizontal one. From this point of view there is no criterion, no objective condition, no transparent, no public control, no guarantee. It's all digital, you know, from there with your finger on it. For example, the hierarchy of EIB is beginning in a vertical manner in the editorial order: The editorial position is the only one that can be obtained from the occasion. It is the lowest rank, and all those above it, all posts of care, are chosen by the direction in an arbitrary manner. I mean, they're above the editor, for instance, heads of the field, politics, economics, society, culture... These coordinators are above that and above all, editors. That is to say, those who decide what the news is, and what it is not, and determine what duration it will have, and what post it will enter inside the news. Then there's the editor of the news department, then the director and general director of the ETB radio stations. This is all the hierarchy, and the direction chooses without any transparency or assurance. And of course, if you change your direction, all those posts will be done. About 10, or more or less, may vary or vary. And this will be remembered by the Socialists, who, when they entered the EIB direction, almost changed their positions. I think it was only the head of culture that kept it, and at first they kept some editors, but then they saw them. Well, that's professional career. As for the landscape, the editors of EIB can't work on the news sessions, because these departments are subcontradicted because most of them are made by producers and not by people of the planet. Indeed, the management may decide in an arbitrary manner, that any of the planets should be employed in such an attempt. They say that all this organization is done according to professional criteria, and no one denies the professional professionals who are in post-states. The people I admire are in charge, and there have been, too. That's not the point at all. Everybody who works in EIB is professional, missing. But they're also professional, even editors who don't have a professional career. So it's not about professionalism. We're talking about equality, and there's no equality in the EIB selection. It is not a question of professionalism, the mother of the lamb is another good, it is not a question of professionalism but of equal opportunities. There is no equal opportunity for access to positions of responsibility in the drafting of EITB, because everyone, absolutely all are positions of trust, that generate that perverse circle of who puts you, takes you away, without further explanation, nor reparations. And to show that that is the crux of the matter, I refer to what the Socialist Party urged here in 2016. He then said that, pending the comprehensive reform of the public service, with criteria of professionalism and independence in the appointment of its managers, he would apply these criteria in the appointment of those responsible for the information programmes, under criteria of transparency and equal opportunities. Transparency and equal opportunities. That's what I was asking. What he then traded with the PNV instead was, that the professional career of the professionals of the information section was promoted and that their managers were chosen with professional criteria, point. That is to say, the transparency and equality of opportunity, the mother of the lamb, the quid of the question, gaurkoan eztabaidatzen ari garzana, hain zuzen ere. Because transparency and opportunity are a guarantee of independence in a public media media. That's the first measure the EIB manager has to take, if he wants to be the public media of quality, not the communication of the government. The local professionals must be free, independent, their professional career cannot be dependent on the trust of the administration. For this purpose, their qualities ought to be considered as their merit, and above all the choice of equality must be established. It may be a concept of trust, but it is not always connected with obedience. I have a pretty nice example of what happened here in EIB, but they're not here, not Egibar, not Luke Uribe. Well, it happened, when they came here, the father and mother of the Cabacas, and they had in the hall a little talk like that. The scene was recorded by a ETB camera, and well, on noon news, he was quit, and well. Then, as usual, they hung up that video at EIB, but an hour later, the news director of Eitb.euse asked the evening editor to remove it from the main cover and put it on a second level. The editor did. By this time, however, the video was playing through the social networks, and one of them got excited. And this editor from EIB.net was asked to remove this part that Uribe Houseer said, "Don't record." This time the editor refused to do so and, well, he informed the EIB.net council about what had happened, the lack of protection. LAB union reported censorship. And what things are, a month later, the editor of the news from EIB.euse dismissed the editor. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. You remember that scene, don't you? Well, in consequence of that, the editor was dismissed. The reason he gave him was a loss of confidence, of what had happened with that video of Egibar and Camacas's father. That's where the professional career of this editor ended, goodbye. He was a good professional when he was in charge and he's a good professional now, but it's the water that carries him. He hasn't been taken care of again, even though he's a very good professional. That's what happens in EIB. Anyone who says no is helpless. Of the editorial Council, moral protection, but nothing else. Anyone who says no, knows what he's got. It's over. And that is because there is no career in EIB, because all cares are divided by fingers. And that's what we're asking for here today, if we want a quality television set, we need to be independent, and that's what we need to take precise measures, such as to promote a professional career. That's why those who decide the diary of the EIB news are to be chosen with equal transparency and opportunity, to be only a professional criterion, and not a personal trust. If we want a balanced treatment of the news, we need security, precise measurements, and that's one of them. And there are even more measurements in the EIB check, for example, e.g. ETV, almost temporary. It's 40 percent. There wasn't even a bag of work until about three years ago, and the contractations were made by fingers. Even most of the agents had an artist contract so far, they're not templated, but many of the people who are in charge are actually bourgeoisists, that is, they're out of the contract of work. Lan baldintza horiek asko zailtzen due komunikabide beat independently izazi, ipini eta kendu dyamika perbertsoa. Eta badakigu hala ere independent izaisa zaila from her, because it is difficult to break with inertia of years, with self-censorship, but the promotion of a professional career based on equal opportunities is already a very important achievement. I am grateful, therefore, to Euskal Herria Bildu for the agreement with Elkarrekin Podemos. We'll also work on EIB's integrated reform team, but there are, stay, some measures they can't wait, which is one of them because it's urgent, and on the other hand, because it's a long-term measure, so we must begin with a lot of speed, even though we work in that direction on the crew. And, finally, I want to remember what Iturbe used the other day at the EIB Control Committee, the thought of the great reporter Ryszard Kapéuscinski, who was recorded in EITB's book. To tell you the truth, we must admit that once we had laughed a little, it was because there was something critical in the chief features of Kapouscinski. If this is the philosophy of the book-style, perfect, welcome, but please pass through the practice and be a critic of the power, because it is a good review, a democratic one, the essence of good journalism. Let's set up a foundation for it. A professional career is one of those foundations. Let us learn that things can be done differently, that our public communication may be the means of extending to the eucalyptic and euscal culture, but also of informing them of our country with sincerity and elegance. The former day, Mr Urrununo, at the Control Committee, recalled an ancient proverb of Africa much used by Capuscinski, which says that while the lions do not have a historian, the story of the chase will be told by the hunters. As long as we don't have enough independent public television, the history of this country will be counted by the government of the moment, which is not our history. EIB cannot be a butterfly
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing to the teams who were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u45	Good morning, everyone. We are glad that today we are bringing back to debate the importance of having information in EITB that will make objectivity, impartiality and respect for political pluralism its sign of identity, an issue that concerns us and concerns us, and a lot. A few days ago, at the Director-General's appearance in the Committee on Control, we discussed this issue very carefully, so today I am not going to go too far. If I should like to point out that the main conclusion we draw from that appearance is that most parties, with the exception, of the PNV, we have doubts, each with its own nuances, that EITB's information is complying with the EITB Creation Act on the principles of objectivity, impartiality and respect for political pluralism. It was also evident, in our group's view, that the instrumentalization of information also has a direct bearing on the time spent in it on the Government and political parties. The data, as we said, are quite eloquent seen in its entirety and not in isolation. The treatment received by Elkarrekin Podemos in EITB is not his responsibility, and this is objective data. The management of EITB continues to appoint trusting positions, as we all know; it is a practice that we do not share in any way, since our model for EITB is firmly committed to ensuring that all positions, both of the executives and of the chiefs, are chosen on the basis of criteria of professionalism, free competition, transparency and equal opportunities. That's what reference public television stations do in Europe and elsewhere in the world. Only in this way can it be ensured that the right of citizens to receive plural, objective and impartial information is guaranteed unconditionally, leaving the elaboration of the information to the professional persons, which is completely impossible with the current system of managers. However, in Mrs Iturbe's last appearance, to which I referred earlier, we found neither a hint of self-criticism nor the slightest sign that she intended to change her system of choice. We already know that their comfortable interinity is at the service of ensuring that there is no change in EITB and that things continue as they are, that is, zero criticism. With this initiative we will ask you again to change course and to do once and for all something that is of common sense, that is nothing more than to encourage the development of the professional career and to ensure that EITB's information is no longer at the service of government information. We are very afraid that he will again ignore, there is a long experience about these things. She knows very well what her task is and she is dedicated to it. It is a shame, indeed, because this task directly affects the dignity and rights of EITB professionals and citizens. We, in any case, will continue to insist and defend another model, both in terms of information, and EITB as a whole. We think that Mrs Iturbe and her team are not the right people, they are not the right people to face it, mainly because they do not want to. We are grateful to Bildu for accepting our addendum amendment, with which we wanted to highlight two issues: one, working with trade union representation, which seems to us to be of great importance; and the other, making a commitment to implement the agreed measures within a reasonable period of three months. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u46	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representative of the Basque Potula team, Mrs. Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. The truth is that I do not intend to go too far either, because a rather similar issue has already been dealt with in the March plenary session and also because we had an appearance, speaking precisely on this subject, as Mrs Arana pointed out, of the objectivity of EITB's information. Mrs. Arana said that the director of EITB, self-critical zero. Well, it's just to expect some self-criticism from the EITB Directorate, because it's I think to wait in vain. And I feel what, because some have already heard it the other day at the show and also in the previous plenary, but the appearances or interventions of the director, Mrs Iturbe, because they are a classic of coming to the House, I sell my book and little response to what the groups have put forward. Not that I don't answer, I told the director in commission, she doesn't make an appearance, she makes a conference in two times, always. Because the part of the book that doesn't give you time to sell in the first intervention, because it ends us by selling in the second and already by responding to what the groups propose, well that already, if that, for another day, that then never comes, right? And to sell his book is to point out to us over and over again that in the Law on the Creation of the Entity and the EITB style book the plurality and objectivity in the information, which is indeed true in the Law on the Creation of the Entity, specifically in its article 3, are reflected as principles the objectivity, veracity and impartiality in the information, as well as the distinction and separation between information and opinion. The question is not whether it appears in the Law on Creation of the Entity, the question is whether that article, specifically in EITB, is fulfilled, because, I told the director the other day, with which they appear in the Law is not enough. What is necessary is that they should be implemented and that is no longer so clear. And neither is objectivity given, as it claims in many cases, to the teleberris that have the most audience; to be the most seen, that is, it may, that does not imply that they are the most objective. Nor is it measured, as it was intended to say when the programme was implemented, for example the other day, which was given at the EITB Board of Directors, and which will be given here when it arrives, which are quality information and follow an absolutely quantitative criterion, because what is established is the number of hours of information given. But, of course, quality, objectivity, impartiality is not measured by the number of hours, but by the content, by the quality of what is contained in that number of hours. And we didn't just say it. I believe that other groups have also said this in this House. Teleberris, on many occasions, are free advertising spaces of the Government, there are advisors who could pass as presenters, right, of the times it comes out. One ends up confusing it. And the mixture of information and opinion is obvious. With regard to professionals, in the preamble to the editorial statute of Basque Public Television Radio, Euskal Irrati Telebista and its subsidiary companies states: "The persons professional in the information of this public body must be considered and act as depositaries of the tacit social mandate to develop these rights, so that their main professional duty is to inform freely, independently, rigorously and objectively, with respect to the editorial principles and contents of this Statute". "By virtue of its status as a public information service, the Basque-Euskal Irrati Telebista radio-television will provide citizens with information based on the truth of the facts, the consultation of all sources, the rejection of any manipulation and respect for the principles of professional ethics of journalism embodied by UNESCO, the Council of Europe and the International Federation of Journalists". Therefore, independent information is necessary and the content of what we are going to discuss and vote here today is important to ensure that independence. To achieve this goal, EITB professionals need to be recognized for their professional career, because, as the initiative says, information independence and professional career are two necessarily related concepts. And as Mrs Agirre has said, what you can't do is that a journalist's career starts and ends the same day, that is, it doesn't make sense. It is necessary that those responsible for setting the information line, those who decide the content, are chosen by professional criteria, by merit, capacity and with equal opportunity. Because if in the end these positions are always all positions of trust, you run the risk that your choice will be made on political and ideological criteria, because, as has been said here, whoever puts you takes you away, and if you don't like what you do, because just as he has put you on, he can take you away. And the truth is, there's a lot of political and ideological criteria in ETB. We have said this on other occasions and we want to reiterate it here today. EITB is instrumentalized, it is a means at the service of a concrete political positioning and of certain political purposes, of a more general one, at the service of nationalist ideology, and of a more particular one, at the service of ruling nationalism. Whoever governs imposes his political criteria, and that is not what I say, that was said here by the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party, when he intervened at the plenary session on 8 March, dealing precisely with the independence of the press. For as he pointed out, the one who governs imposes his criteria, what it is about is that it is not so, and that indeed EITB is a pointer for giving truthful, independent information, in which his professionals are entitled to his professional career. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u48	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Arana helped me a little more to focus the debate, because we had finally started with a proposal, a proposal that talked about the independence of EITB's information. It is true that it was treated in March, it is true that we have treated it again, as Mrs Arana said by the Director in the Committee on Control, but we have ended up talking about other agreements that had been taken in another legislature, almost always in this Tribune to throw it at the head of another, and not to build. None. No one has, however, talked about the professional career, well, yes, I think Mrs Agirre mentioned it, I think in the end, in passing. It is another matter that is within the agreements agreed by all the groups of the House to deal with in a participatory way, in addition, within the EITB presentation. That seems to me to have pointed out at the end and I say so, but nothing has been said about the rest. I am not going to repeat myself, as Mrs Arana said earlier. I believe that most of them in the Committee on Control said that it is necessary to reflect on Basque Public Television Radio in its public service function, which obviously has those functions of objectivity, impartiality and transparency in the training and information they give about everyone, also now that we are talking about the information, and that is one of the levers of the EITB reform paper. And we have shared it all and all, because in addition we always, always, always refer to, within the public service, that the same is performed by the professionals of the house, we give the guarantee of better compliance, not a total guarantee, because I believe that, in fact, we must also take into account that the other pillars, such as governance, transparency and financing, would also be the ones that would give the greatest guarantee. Of course, in that we all agree, to encourage that professional career, with all those characteristics that the previous spokespersons have pointed out. There's no doubt there. Then there is the system of managers and in that, some of us share what is less effective to the development of the professional career, and we do not agree with it and we will reiterate it, and other groups that do not consider it this way. And that is one of the issues that we need to address within the reform paper. Because if it were that easy, we would have done it sooner. If it were really only to support the professional career, without detailing what is what we disagree with and how we are going to delete it or modify it, I guess that would no longer be one of the issues we have to address in the comprehensive presentation. I don't think it's just that. I insist, I share with Mrs Arana, that when I talk about another model, I talk about governance, transparency and funding, and about public service, and inside it is prioritizing and projecting the professional career of EITB professionals, but there are other issues that are not. Then I'll say it again. One initiative presented a year ago, we bring it here, again, a GNP, the other was a proposal for a law, so that again the EITB and, in this case, the professionals in a debate in which there is no agreement. When there is an agreement to deal with it in the paper, to take all the representative unions in the entity itself and in Euskadi to participate with us in that analysis, we bring it here, to throw the mess at our head, and in the middle of the entity's professionals and professionals. Well, whether it's butterfly or not, what we're not gonna do is turn it into an ogre. Of course, it's not going to be our intention. I said that the previous time I had a heated debate with Mrs Arana. It's okay if we don't want to make the presentation, if we're going to bring in an initiative every time. But tell us, those who play partial initiatives. It's all right, we're prepared, prepared, we're sure they don't agree with our proposal or they are, in every one of those areas that we have to work on. But what are we doing the paper for? To do it twice? To go out in the media and treat the entity negatively? Because in the end we contribute to that. And in this case, besides, including the professionals of the house? I, of course, am not willing. The only reason why we do not share this initiative is because we are dealing with it in the EITB paper, in a consensual and participatory way, because finally all the groups have reached an agreement that this reform should be part of, as is also the case in the compromise amendment, and because finally all the groups have also reached that agreement that the unions – representatives of those professionals, of those professionals – should be in that comprehensive paper. So what I do not like is that, finally, by political initiative, the political agenda is respectable that of everyone and everyone, I will not do the opposite. But I would like to clarify what it is going to be, because if not, because we divide it, we make proposals of law or not of law, I would bet more on those of Mrs Arana of law, because if it is about breaking the paper and addressing the issues we want in pieces, we will do so by proposals of law. But, finally, we do not believe that bringing ETB simply to debate and to black out the political issues and the differences that exist, when we have a framework that we also have agreed and which is also expressly agreed, professional career, the appearance of trade unions, participation, does not seem to us to be the most positive. That is so, respecting the initiative that we all have to take to the House. From there, obviously, I will not start to draw agreements in which the proponent was, which he then forgot and did not respect EITB, because it is not about what he did at that time EH Bildu, which we could draw or not draw, or what the Basque Nationalist Party did, what we did or what the People's Party did. The point is that we're in a paper and we talked about it, that we want to reform all that. And more specifically on this subject there are few discrepancies, well there is some, but it's not exactly between you and me. So, in fact, I do not understand first of all the fact of taking this issue out of the debate once again when there is a broad agreement. And secondly, that in the interventions someone takes the agreements to put it in the face of some of the groups, mine or another. As I must be consistent with what I'm defending, I'm not going to put anyone in front of anything and I just hope they keep working on the paper. I also believe the unions will be attending shortly, and they are already being contacted for this professional career development. And then the core of the question will come – I don't know if Mrs Arana has said this – which is the system, among other things, the system of managers, how that also affects the development of the professional career, who established it, who supported it. There will be many issues to discuss, but it will not only be that. I am convinced that it will not only be that and that is why I want to do it there by dialogue, participating and contrasting with you and the rest of the members of the presentation another model of EITB. Because let's see if this is about finally not getting in time with partial initiatives to put black on white before the end of this legislature, what are the EITB models we defend. Not the particular initiatives, many of them shared, but the models of the EITB that we defend, which perhaps turn out, apart from concrete initiatives, not so different from those that now exist. I invite the same thing. If in another case you don't want this to work on the paper, let it be said. It's just that every day we can't be dealing with the same thing twice. I believe that a political initiative can be taken, a press conference with the same content without having to bring to the political debate and break the consensus in this Parliament an issue that was frankly very well advanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u51	Yes, good morning, everyone. Madam de Table, chief of departments, fellow members of the legislature, good days to all. "They are concepts which are necessarily connected with the independence of the public and the professional career." That's how EH Collectation's occasion begins in the original proposition as it is today, when Mr. Unai Urzuno has made it. And I want to start with this, because I think it's not like that, we don't have to mix these two things together. Both are important, both have importance, both have influence on each other, but they are not necessarily connected as they say. And I think it was clear, today and the days before, because, as has been said here, we've had a few discussions about informatives, and only a week ago we've had EIB's director at the committee, Loved Iturbe, and we've talked about it for the most part about the quality of informatives. And the 2500 euscals who had been asked by the Sociological Research Center, answered the following question: Which TV network would you prefer to get information? 86% answered that he preferred the ETV chains, and at the second position, La Sxa was at 14%, and the rest of the strings remained very close. According to the data of the Sociological Research Center, half of the population prefers EIB TV and the other half separates between the other strings. And in the case of this other question, what radio caiso do you prefer to get information? , in this is EIB's radio emiso of questions, 37% of the questions; at the second position the emissosis of the Cayas is distributed between 26%; and the other third is distributed between the other radio emissis. These, as I said, are the data of the Centre for Sociological Research. So EITB is a reference to information in the Basque Country. It's strange to me, because it's always said so, and I agree with Mrs. Aguirre, if there's professionality, so we have a great degree of professionalism, and the EIB services are highly sued for informatives. So I don't know where the quality breaks because, at least, I'm connected with each other, I think they have quality, the quality of informatives is obvious. But this was the debate of other days. Indeed, on 8 March, on the day of the Director-General's appearance in the Control Committee last week and also the title of today's GNP. But not really the content of today's GNP, what we are told is, talking about the professional career, about the promotion of professionals, of professionals within the house within the house itself. I also add to what Mrs Romero said. I think we all agree that career is important, that we have to work in that career and we've put it somewhere. We have put it after a series of debates and after a series of discussions – sometimes heated – but we have reached agreement, the consensus to work all that in the framework of a paper where we already have a methodology, where we are working and where we have to move forward with the definition, among other things, of those career parameters. But I would also like to say here that the professional career, here we talk a lot about promotion, about possibilities for promotion. Mrs Agirre, moreover from a very direct and very internal knowledge of the issue, makes us an approach that the career in ETB ends the day you enter, when you pass the opposition. But, however, going to the transparency portal of the house itself, I find that there is a series of data and a series of profiles that tell me about something else. They tell me that almost 80% of people who are in positions of responsibility or who have different responsibilities in the information, because they come from the house, both in ETB and in irrati, and on eitb.net, because I find that 85% up, I'm finding that they're people who come from their own home and have had a professional development. Moreover, and I also follow the ETB's transparency portal, where there is a lot of information and where I don't know if any of the spokespersons in this area have entertained themselves in reading them all and each of them, because they are very interesting and they give a picture quite different from the one they want to show us some. La propia love Iturbe, principal director, pues viene de la casa. La propia est Iturbe est dede el año 84, at work, ETBn, has an extensive professional activity in television productions, as producers, and as directors of the production of Miracles; That's what behavery transparence says. And others, I won't read you any more, but here they are. Consider, see how they are, whence they come from, whence they come from. Most of them are inside, and they're good professionals. So we have people of great professional order, as Mrs. Aguirre says, I agree; Where's the chain break? I see clearly, and I do not deny that we have many things to work on, and that we have many things to talk about. But we have power, and I know Mrs. Arana will laugh at me for saying so, but that's the way it is. And I've got a responsibility and I'm responsible for that stuff, and there's a good, hard job in it, and there's my engagement from the first day of the day, and, as Mrs. Romero said, we'll hear the company commissions, we'll hear the unions, and then we'll hear our decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Passing the answers, Mrs. Aguirre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u53	Oregi andrea, I didn't have to explain myself well. Yo no she dicho que no sea gente de la Plantita la esta en cargos de responsabilid. We're told that the cómo se illigea, qué oposicion, which they've passed, what merit they've done, how they chose them according to the criteria they've chosen, not whether they're family or not. Inside the house people are chosen by finger, so that they may be made clear. Hemen kazetariak gora-behera gabiltzanez, kazetarien galdera nagusia da edo ehabiliena eta eraginkorerena, berba bakarrean laburtzen da, eta da zergatik. Eta esaten duzunean jende gehienak aukeratzen duela ETB, galdetu behar zeure buruari zergatik aukeratzen duela ETB. Because we could also say that, for example, Torrente's film is the most talkative film in Spanish cinema. That doesn't mean it's quality. People chose it, they saw it, but it's not a guarantee of quality. You have to ask yourself why she sees ETV mostly. Maybe it's because it's the only TV that's local and that's because it's local, that's the media we have to look after, more than anyone else. And otherwise, and you said they shouldn't mix professional careers and independence, but you haven't explained why. That's why I'd ask you like a reporter again. Why do you say that? Tell me when you get back, because I don't understand. And I don't think you've given any arguments either, Mrs. Romero hasn't given much arguments either. Well, you've confined yourselves to power, O sera, to a form. I think you've reduced yourself to that kind of thing because you don't have a lot of arguments. And as you mention the power, I have also said in my interference, we have more to do with it than any of us. We say, we love the bird, and we are serious in ponciency, and with the desire to work, with the will, with the engagement, with the desire to improve things. And you know that, better than anyone, we have a strong commitment to it. I hope you explain to me on the next round that you haven't really protected our law, as I said, we'll take care of this on the crew, but I think it's a very urgent matter. For instance, in any company, the production can't be stopped or done with the strategic plan, because you're working. You have to keep working, you have to work, even though you're doing an strategic plan. Then please explain to me why you did not protect him, and especially what makes me most of all, why we have a history of it here, in this house, the concept of equality is dropped. Let me explain to you what gives you, why the opportunity is to interfere in scenes and public functions. It's a basic concept. Why, despite 80 percent of planetal conditions in this case, why there is no equality. There'll be 10% of the planet's responsible posts. Why the other 90% don't they have a chance to do that? What's the bother? Why do you need trust to get to these jobs? Why do you need obedience to maintain these jobs? That's what you have to tell me. And I think our argument is clear. I haven't heard of you, and, well, we think it's a guarantee to do a professional career in equality, even though you connect it with independence, and then please explain it to me, if we want to be independent EIB, that must be connected with professional career. But everyone must have a chance for a career. Let us walk in this sense, because EIB is denon. EITB is everything and let the bird fly free.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Arana, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u55	Eskerrik asko. I'll be very brief. Mrs Oregi, look if I have responsibility, see if I am responsible for taking everything very seriously and also the EITB presentation. And I didn't laugh, even though you've given it up, that I was going to laugh. I didn't laugh. See if I'm serious. But look, since he likes to talk so much about the paper he's talking about so much, I'm going to talk about it. The debate, in our view, is relevant now and always. I'm going to tell you why, because the appearances of the paper are behind closed doors and that's not transparency. We do not tolerate this, because we believe that the participation of both citizens and experts – trade unions, etc. – should be public. And you or those who voted against public appearances will have to explain why you don't want to. They're still in time to rectify, if that's what they want. He's talking about surveys. I can talk to you about 0 technicians in some ETB channel, which we believe – and I repeat – has the right to participate in the debate and the construction of Basque public television of all, but also of all, who are forgotten in this Basque public television that we currently have. I think they have the right to participate in this debate and they also have the right to decide and say what model of Basque public television they want. And we are not allowing it because, I insist, the appearances in the paper are behind closed doors, citizens are being prevented from participating in this debate. So is it appropriate for us to hold the debates in plenary? Yes, because at least the citizens will be able to listen to us so that they can know the position of everyone. Then everyone will know what they're doing. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u56	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Basque Popular, Mrs Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u57	Yeah, thanks again. I'll be very brief too. We were one of the promoters of the paper, but I think I've said it some other time. It is true that this paper is being discussed and we are discussing a comprehensive reform of EITB. But it is also true that the paper cannot be the parapet so that certain initiatives or issues about EITB are not brought to this House. Because if not, in the end it would be a contradiction that in the end a presentation is created on a particular matter and no longer discussed. Well, we can clear the whole room. In addition, I agree with Mrs Arana, and I agree that in the end the debates in the paper, because when they are often heated debates that in the end are debates that remain in there, it may seem good to me, but that is precisely why it is true that there are certain matters that we believe that because of the relevance or because they can really be adequate that they have light and tachygraphs, they are brought to this House so that they can be debated. And that doesn't mean questioning the entity, nor the entity's professionals. Among other things, that in the end is also sometimes perverse. That is, when someone talks about EITB, it seems that one is questioning EITB. No, no, what you're questioning is the EITB leadership right now, how it's addressed EITB right now, which has nothing to do with questioning EITB. And I believe that everyone in this paper is a new model of EITB, which is closer to the principles of what has to be a public service in which the plurality of all Basques is reflected, and in which all Basques who pay this EITB with their taxes are reflected. And I was talking... As for the quality of information, I said it in my first speech. It is that the quality of the information in EITB's information, in the performance of the programme contract is reflected quantitatively. That is, it is said, number of hours, and since there are many numbers of hours of information, then already the information has a tremendous quality. That, and then the polls that are done. Then EITB are the most seen, Mrs Agirre said very well, because they are the ones here. I have also said that on many occasions, Basques and Basques like to see what is happening in Euskadi, which does not mean that they like to see what the government does at all times, tomorrow, evening and evening. Because I've already told you, some counselors could be part of the entity's staff. Look, even for their leadership positions they could also name them, because of course, they appear continuously. And it is that I have told Mrs Agirre, it is different that she is chosen among the professionals of the entity, that there are and many, and very good; and another thing is that she has agreed on equal opportunities. No, it's chosen from among the entity's professionals, but with a finger. And the other day on the Board of Directors, we had the opportunity to appoint one more position in which we, on the Board, decided to create that position in that organizational chart, but the choice of the person was a choice of direction of the entity. Among the staff inside the house, yes, but chosen to finger. I believe that the question is, I do not say that all positions of trust have to disappear, but the question is that professionals have equal opportunities, that there is a career and that in the end they are not questioned on certain occasions because whoever is there is really on their own merits and not because ideologically it is the most convenient. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u58	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, at least here we have a presentation and we are discussing how to improve the public service of Basque public radio-television, which does not happen precisely with public radio-television in Spain. Look at what a coincidence. That's what doesn't happen. Let's see if tomorrow we have a little luck and a little support and we can change that. That's precisely, it's that advice I sell that I don't have, it's that it's up to a certain moment. It is up to a certain moment, because I can understand the criticism about whether only in the paper or outside the paper, I can argue with those parties that bring me a proposal. But man, precisely the People's Party that talks to me about information plurality, quality in the information services and participation to modify the model of Spanish radio-television, because no, I do not know if they are going to try to do it better here, I hope so, because of course, your contribution in the presentation is true, since the presentation, since the initiative, which I have not denied or accused you. Hide us. I don't hide, come on, even if they try to hide me. Of course the Socialist Party has always made a proposal, it has said it outside and within Parliament, the first one that made a proposal for reform of EITB, the first one that made a proposal for reform of EITB three years ago, then there is a full one also of EH Bildu, We can have yours and we are working another joint, but we have not hidden. We have not put an obstacle, nor one in the paper, we have voted in all favour, until it is public, although it was finally not agreed by the Bureau, we also voted in favour, of that and of the agreement to participate with the UPV, of everything, or an obstacle. That is, that of hiding myself, nothing, of participating, always, and of giving reasons too, Mrs Agirre, of giving reasons also, because they are the same as you have not given me, because if you had spoken about what you were coming to talk about, I would have told you that I share from the first to the last line of the justification of your initiative, but not of then using the professional career which is a question that, in fact, improves the quality of public service, of Basque public radio-television, but must also be accompanied by other things that we are dealing with and that tell me that I do not give you arguments, but if I always give you the same argument, I always give you the same argument and I have never hidden or what proposal we have, because we have it. The problem is when we still do not know what proposal we have regarding the professional career and we say it in general, so that EITB or not, and so that we do not all work within the paper, with the participation of trade union agents and the rest of the citizenry, as we have agreed through the participatory process with the UPV. Therefore, that is the problem, why does the EITB Directorate have to do only with a group, when we want to worry about what the public service of Basque public radio and television is like, why can't we deal with that and why can't we deal with meeting the standards we want and why can't we also deal with the presentation, that EITB professionals deserve and have, I'm sorry, the professional career and development they deserve. That is what I said, and those are the fundamental reasons for knowing that I have a proposal, and that I am going to defend it very clearly when the papers are finished. Another issue is not having it or having a part yes and another part no, and not being able to say it and make a specific initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u61	Yes, good morning again. I'm happy, some things are going forward and some things are getting better, and I've heard that most of the professionals who have an education are family members, son de la casa, Jasone Aguirre said. I think it's all right to say things because we're saying things here full of demagogues and they're called generals, but I don't know, we just put the data and the data on the table for once, and then both of them, primer avance. We already know that most of the people who are in management or responsibility tasks within the EITB group are personal from the house, the problem is – according to Jasone Agirre too – the free designation and how they are chosen or with what principles. Well, the principles by which they are chosen are marked, are marked in the different documents governing EITB's functions, but "Forgive me, I was getting a little lost with so much traffic," and the free designation is a figure who is also in the public service, neither is it necessary to dramatize, nor is it necessary to demonize. It's not good for everything, but it's good for some things. And it also exists in municipalities, in governments, in all places, in all areas of administration at certain sites and for certain things, it exists. What do we have to do? To measure it, to see it, to see how it is being applied, and for all that the paper, as we had spoken. Why is this debate brought here today? Why are we bringing this debate here? To express disagreements? To make it clear that we all agree and that we will continue to work on the paper? We have a paper, but we need to get things out of there, for what? So anyone can hear it? Who is the addressee of this debate today, gentlemen of EH Bildu? Who is it? Any union? And there is another thing that has become very clear to me too, that is that Mrs Arana does not know very well what democracy is, no, she has not yet learned. The paper was created by a majority, with a very large majority, if not a bad one, 46 out of 75 in the House, and the rules of procedure say that the papers have a form of work, which is not that secret, is discreet. It is discreet to be able to move forward, to be able to debate in another way, to be able to work on certain topics. And you know, as Mrs Romero has also told you, that we agreed, all of us, all of us, to make certain things public, and we continue to agree and we will find the formula, I am sure. So don't tell me what it is that the paper doesn't know what secrets it has and then it has to bring things here, no; what they want is to entangle. What they want is to entangle and bring, bring out certain issues here, so that they can have outside an audience to which they are feeding in certain ways. Methodology. It's just that it's methodology, it's a methodological issue; if you're working on something in trust with some, weaving trusts, working on positive, that's the presentation, with their guarabeheras. When one wants to work, when one wants to move forward, when one wants to decide and when one wants to agree, the methodologies approved by a very large majority are respected and, in this case, I would say the methodology by consensus, because in methodology at the end we all agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect, and together we'll have the middle-direction signed by Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 38; opponents 35; white, 0; abstation, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u63	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "The other proposition of Podemos as a parlamentary group, concerning the policy of security and the genus. Discipline and final resolution. In the turn of the proposed team, as it is the initiative of the Podemos team, Mrs. Arana, who is her representative, has the word to defend and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u64	Good morning, again. Elkarrekin Podemos developed this initiative because of our persistence in promoting a quantitative and qualitative leap in policies of equality and macho violence in all, absolutely all areas of life. And, therefore, steps must be taken from all sides, absolutely all government departments and public policies. Measures to prevent, respond to, protect, repair and have guarantees of non-repetition of all sexist violence. Let us recall again that sexist violence is much more than violence by partner or ex-partner, which is much more than sexual assault on the streets. That discrimination, gender stereotypes and prejudices are also breeding ground for multiple forms of violence or violation of rights. Sometimes, by action, they are aware, sometimes, by omission, indirectly, because we have installed practices that we have not stopped to analyze from a gender perspective, and the latter are much more difficult to see or identify. Even if they don't put women's lives at risk, even if they're less alarming, even if they go unnoticed... They are also violence that must be prevented. And the institutions have an obligation to stop absolutely all forms of violence, all from the joke to the most serious and irreversible violence, such as feminicide. Women are going to continue the road and there is no going back. They will continue to uncover, analyze and bring to light, denounce and propose solutions, even if some do not want to see it. From the streets, from the academy, from the institutions, from the workplace, from the houses... plural and diverse women are articulating at a global level a new wave of feminism that is putting on the political agenda issues for this time, this reality and the future we want. In this context, women and the Basque feminist movement are being a global reference. A proof of this is that the next venue of the International Women's March meeting is in Bilbao, although this international and historical meeting, today, is not attracting as much interest as a rugby or basketball final. In October, many and many like it or not, the streets of Euskadi will be filled with women from the five continents. Women who are political and social references in their countries and throughout the world. And all this is important to mention so that we can look at how this initiative emerges and why we present it. Security studies and policies were gender-blind for years, and gender studies were alien to security policies. Feminist women have put the magnifying glass in security policies, because they consider it to be very important. Knowledge is developing at all levels and, as it could not otherwise be, from a great depth. Knowledge it reviews from the frameworks and paradigms of the United Nations security concept, to day-to-day police practice in different parts of the world. Security and the institutions responsible for it – such as the police – are a key, though not the only, piece for the prevention and eradication of sexist violence. And he is also an actor who, as he said before, by action or omission, because perhaps – and this is so – has not devoted the time necessary to reflect and analyze from a gender perspective his actions, can reproduce stereotypes, prejudices and even exercise different forms of gender-based violence. The study we mentioned in the justification of this initiative says, for example, that the interviewees admit that they have never reflected on the impact of a detention experience, much less from a gender perspective. The reflection is initiated and there is no turning back. On this new path that feminist women open from different parts of the world to analyze and review security policies, the study that I have just mentioned is being promoted in Euskadi. It is entitled Experience of police detention in women of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. The director of Emakunde, Izaskun Landaida, introduced him along with his authors, Lohitzune Zuloaga, Estíbaliz de Miguel and Miren Ortubay. It is a work that, in broad terms, for those who do not know it, what it does is to analyze from a gender perspective the experience of women who have been detained in the period between 2011 and 2016. This means analyzing these experiences in a society that generates inequality, in a patriarchal system that has widespread practices based on stereotypes about what it is to be women and what it is to be men, about how we should behave in this reality. That is, how it affects being a woman or a man in the process of police detention. The authors appeared in this Parliament at the request of Elkarrekin Podemos, and with a critical look and also – and I want to point out this because it seems to me important – with great respect, presented the study in more detail. All of us who were in that appearance could understand that there is a long way to go, and we understand that the study and the problem that has been identified cannot be left in a drawer. We have a responsibility to continue the march as soon as possible, therefore, and because we will not tire of repeating, we understand that we must address gender equality and violence from all angles, with absolute depth and from all departments of the Basque Government. Furthermore, let us not forget that the main international bodies have expressed, in different fields and through various instruments, the need to study and analyse the criminal situation of people from a gender perspective, as well as to design, implement and evaluate security policies by incorporating this perspective. In 2000, the Vienna Declaration on Crime and Justice was signed, in which States Members of the United Nations committed themselves to making policy recommendations, action-oriented and based on the special needs of women as prisoners or offenders. A decade later, the United Nations rules for the treatment of women prisoners and non-custodial measures for women offenders, known as the Bangkok Rules of 2011, were agreed upon. In short, we believe that there are reasons left and it is widely agreed that it is essential to incorporate a gender perspective into security policies. So we present this initiative, we receive the amendments, we study them, we analyze them, we have tried, as we always do, to gather all the concerns, proposals and nuances of all the groups and, obviously, always taking into account that something can always be left on the road, that is, predisposed and put on the road of agreeing with all the political formations. But we want, as I say, to reach agreements, we want initiatives on equality and machista violence to go ahead and sometimes because we find ourselves with walls. The final amendment – which I invite to reread and reconsider the groups that could vote against today – contains these proposals, which are all of common sense, and above all as necessary as it is demonstrated in international studies and recommendations, is not something that we have invented, and also in that study that we have carried out here, in our home. First, we propose that a plan be drawn up to incorporate a gender perspective in a cross-cutting manner into the internal and external policies of the police institution, Ertzaintza and municipal police, and of course within the framework of the equality plan of the Department of Safety and Security. Can anyone say no to this? Does it seem to anyone in this House that this is not necessary? Doubts. In the second point, we propose that the recommendations emanating from the Experience of Police Detention of Women in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country report be analysed specifically so that they are taken into account in this plan. Thirdly, and also within the plan we propose in point one, we propose to open up lines of work to prevent, from a gender perspective, possible unfair actions, revictimization, criminal or social reproach, based on gender stereotypes and prejudices that, as we know, I have said, can be by action, but also by omission, because we have never stopped to reflect and analyze. Well, we think it's time. They're still in time to think if this is necessary or not. Also, for the development of the plan, we propose a programme of care and support for women in detention or deprivation of liberty from a gender perspective. This programme would take into account all the dimensions of detention, such as treatment, personal records, facilities, hygiene items to meet gender-related needs, health-related measures, girls and boys. In short, all the dimensions that are established in what are known as the Bangkok Rules. In other words, we propose that progress and improvement be made in the implementation of international recommendations. Something totally common sense, though for some it seems not. In the fifth point, we propose the development of a protocol for prevention, early detection, protection of victims and complainants, investigation and guarantees of non-repetition of ill-treatment, harassment or sexual abuse in all areas of detention. These protocols, as far as it is not known, are established by the Law, their development in companies is being promoted, Emakunde published an updated guide just two years ago. Why not lead and be a model? Why doesn't the government want to be a model for all this? Developing protocols throughout the public administration? Or do you think this is just a problem for private companies? Be models of what you propose. But it looks like this, either. Sixthly, we want to promote a specific and more detailed investigation into a topic that has concerned the researchers and that concerns us all, the police interventions and arrests that occur in cases of cross-reporting in the context of situations of gender-based violence or male-based violence by couples or ex-partners. Do you also consider it important to investigate cross-denunciations and what is happening? We really don't understand. The penultimate point refers to an agreement by this Parliament, and we were only proposing that it be complied with. They don't agree either. Finally, for all the points, which have the competent institutions at local, provincial or autonomous level, with other departments of the Basque Government with competence, and with the participation of social agents and professionals who are experts in the field. Neither. As you can see, an amendment, from our very full, comprehensive point of view, with diverse and comprehensive proposals in which we have gathered all the contributions of all political forces, and all with common sense. Perhaps I am afraid that it will not go ahead because the PNV groups and their partners in the PSE government and the PP seem to be going to vote against it. I'd like to hear what you have to say about it. We are very interested in your explanations and justifications for a possible vote against, although we have incorporated the proposals of all, I say all, the groups that did the work and tabled amendments. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u65	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseowner, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u66	Thank you all, good noon. I'd like to begin by remarking the value of the study that has led us to this discussion, my intervention of today, as well as the innovations of Mrs. Arana has explained the drill, the work of De Miguel and Ortubay, for what they study, but also the view they have made. As they insist on it, the phase of the arrest has been very little examined, as they call it an intermedium. And I would add that it has been done even less from a feminist point of view, at least from placing women in the middle. Besides, in this case we cannot avoid intersecrational point of view, we cannot speak of women and men in homogeneous ways, as if they were a homogeneous group. The diversity must be taken into account, and this study is very manifest. Criminal control and selection has not only a marked social class character, but also gender and other axes of social inequality. It has to do with what every society or, at least, every manager of this society understands as punishable, they understand as punishable and why profiles, why identities, why experiences, what we believe are punishable. We have an example of the retroactive law known to us as the law of Mozal. It is to punish any one and all that is opposed to the pretty ones we develop. So, inserting this point of view is not just inserting woman's experience. It must suppose a change of point of view, a view over the Infante must begin with a change, and become a doubt of the penal control. This systemr is the instrument for women's control, social control, it's obvious that it has a sexist character, and in this study it becomes clear. To examine the whole part of the explanation at first, all of us who are here, it would be very good for us, and we have it in our power to obtain it from the Chamber of Results. And it will be indispensable to make a short, middle-term proposal for work. This proposal we are to discuss today has a long-term view that means a thorough investigation of the justice and arrest system on the table. What's the problem with this proposal? We don't say it by ourselves. They don't just say researchers. Even the Bangkok rules contain this request. This series of proposals on the table from 2011 demands clearly the need of grafting into the genus view, the need to reflect on the processing of the arrest. In addition to this, as we said, this study mentions the measures which may immediately be applied; and as the investigators themselves showed themselves in the representation of this legislature, they speak of several measures which may be put into action without very great complications. These have also been proposed, and in another law, to the enterprises of our party, and we hope to be able to discuss them as quickly as possible. All these, then, are the steps to be made at different speeds, and therefore is a complete and long-term proposition which we have brought into this middle course. Ms. Arana has very well stated where the points are going, and we too will be glad to know where the problem is. A genetic formation is required in the police, in this space organized by masculine culture, and directed to it, we must push discussion and reformulation. In these experiences of women there are stigmatists and revirtimators, we must cease to exist, one of the most important concerns on the table, the phenomenon of crossed accusations. It is evident that this has produced an opposite effect in the laws which are supposed to arise for the benefit of women, one of the causes of the term violence of the genus. A cross between the Foreign Law, the Mozal Law, and the system of Punishments, must be stopped by sexist and racists, and we must labour to abolish them. We must consider the feminist and intersecrational point of view in order to reach multiplicity, and to face this homogeneity and supposed neutrality. So, we're ready to work to transform the Basque People from the United States. To-day, with a contribution to Podemos' proposal, and to-morrow to discuss short-term proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u68	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Indeed, I believe that we agree on this subject, Mrs Arana. We agree on the concern, we agree on the need to take into account the report that was presented on 14 March at a hearing in Parliament, I think we agree on the concern that we all have in this House to act. But I think that the difficulty of agreeing is in drafting the most pro-active part, I think, because, speaking only of one point, the first point of the transaction that is going to vote both Podemos and EH Bildu talks about making a plan of the plan. They talk about the Equality Plan but they want to create another plan, when the plan already exists. So what I think is that by sharing the concern, probably sharing the goals, taking into account that we are in the middle of a legislature in which every week we deal with an issue related to the need to deepen equality rights, knowing that in the legislative calendar there is a bill to address the issue of the sexist violence that we have also come to talk about and that always come out on all the issues. We are at the door of further progress and I believe that equality in all the policies of this Government appears in a cross-cutting, non-tangential way, is in all the departments of the Government and I believe that it is also in the department headed by the Security Adviser. The report submitted on 14 March talks about an intermediate area, which Mrs Etxebarrieta was talking about, which is part of the detention. It is true that much has been delved into what has to do with prisons, with the actions of the prisoners, but there was that part, that pending subject, which was the subject of arrests. From what I have been able to read from that report, because I was not part of that appearance, I believe that the report is put forward in a positive and purposeful way. It is recognized that many things are being done, even in the final part of the report itself, when the authors themselves, who have written it, make two concrete proposals, in textual form, say that they are: "(...) valuable contributions to the extent that they arise from the experiences of the women themselves who have been detained, but it is evident that", and put in bold, "their implementation would be complicated and even questionable from certain points of view". Therefore, in the compromise amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, we are talking about analysing within the framework of the Equality Plan of the Department of Security, the proposals emanating from the report, Experience in Police Detention in Women of the Basque Autonomous Community, in order to consider them within their scope of action. It is not that we do not agree on the need to act, what we want is to act well, to act in shape, to see how many of the things that were raised by those who came to appear can be carried out and, of course, to bear in mind that what they are proposing must be taken into account and, of course, adapted to what we already have. The second point we proposed was that the departmental working group should continue to follow up on the Department of Safety and Security's Equality Plan, as well as the corresponding assessments. If we do not value the plans that the Government already has, if we do not analyse each of the actions that are already implemented, how can we propose to create another plan and continue to create protocols and continue to create more and more and more roles, and more protocols without analyzing and seeing what we can improve on those decisions that we have all made. I think it is not a question of being against the literality of the text, you ask, of course legitimately, that we explain the reasons for the vote against, in this case from the Socialist Party to the amendment you have signed. As I say, we are not opposed to literality, we are opposed to continuing to apply things without analysing what we already have, we believe that the report is good, we believe that the report is objective, we believe that it deals with a part that has not been taken into account so far. It has to be borne in mind that the number of arrests has dropped in order to eventually increase the number of charges, but it is true that the number of arrests to women is lower, protocols are followed, all that has to do with the caches, the subject of the language is taken into account, and it seems good, that what was being said was that the part where there were most shortcomings was perhaps in explaining the reason for being there a woman detained. In a few weeks, something that has a lot to do with this will be discussed. Mrs Goirizelaia has presented something very related to this initiative, probably more focused on the criminal side than what we are talking about today, and we will continue to delve into what has to do with this issue. But I conclude by saying that by sharing philosophy, by sharing concern, our efforts should be to reach consensus on how to shape those tools that we want to put in place. As I say, all that has to do with the Machist violence is not the heritage of anyone, nor of the feminist movement, nor of anyone, is of society and of the political parties that we represent to that society, while recognizing what the feminist movement has achieved and will continue to achieve on this issue. Of course, we do not give up what we are committed to, such as the law against Machist violence, which can be possible in Euskadi if we all work for it, and say that, although we are going to vote against, tell him that we are not against the issue and that I hope that we will continue to work to find ourselves. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u69	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u70	Yes, ma'am, thank you, chief of departments, members of the legislature, now all good evenings. Together we have another proposal given by Podemos to discuss the politicalities and the genus view, and it was proposed to him, as has been said here, that the report made about the women's arrest is mentioned, from a generic point of view, that report contains the experience of the women who had been arrested during the 2016th and 2016. And it is true that one of the consequences of the report is a different character from the police, perhaps in such cases, and that it is necessary to place the genus in a nice view of safety. The report was explained here in March, by his authors, and well, the contents are very wide, and, above all, the arrest's more focused on this process. On the other hand, as the original law presented by Miss Arana, considering the contents of this report and the specific view of the genus, it is required to make a plan within the planet of the equality of the Security Department, and here, as Mrs. Rojo said, you will forgive me if I did not understand you: why should we make a plan if there is a plan? And I do not think that a plan of equality will be a genus without perspective, because it must be so, otherwise there would be no plan of equality. This plan of equality has been made, and in October the planning of the handsomest equalitys of 2017 was also referred to this legislature. The departmental working group annually follows up on this plan with an internal action-by-action evaluation and also with an evaluation in the implementation of Emakunde, which we were also talking about in another non-legislative proposal, which was discussed in December, and we talked about indicators and other issues that affected plans, among others. The Arkaute Academy, as an autonomous body, also has its own evaluation of its equality plan for women and men at the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies, with a plan currently in force for the period 2017-2021. I will tell you more, on 22 May last, the Emakunde Board of Directors approves the VII Equality Plan, within which departmental plans must be developed. As the Department of Security has already approved the priorities of this legislature and is working on the 2018-2021 plan, which will be in line with the guidelines set out in that Emakunde plan. And for greater abundance, I can also tell you that the Ertzaintza leadership has its own equality group, a peer-representative group, and that it works in coordination with the Department's working group. And in addition, a member of that group of the Ertzaintza dedicates itself entirely to the dynamism of actions for equality within the Ertzaintza. The report you're talking about in the original initiative, well, you were asking me to consider, and I have to tell you that a committee has been created in the Security Department and examine the proposals made in it, at least, which are supposed to be appropriate. For instance, the formation in the genus view. For it must be said that the border is forming, both through the formation of the group of equality and by the formation of the academic. And this formation, except in equality, presupposes a formation of violence in the genus. And the Ertzaintza forms and forms, and I can tell you training actions given by the Ertzaintza, up to a total of 18, with 1,319 participants. And it also forms, with another total of 18 activities, with more than 970 participants. A process of reflection on the contradictions had also been initiated, which was one of the issues on which the report had been concerned. We are working on this issue, without it being, I understand, a purely police issue. But well, that it also transcends the legal sphere more, but there are the contradictions, the ertzainas that are in the police stations have the obligation to collect both, but they also inform the complainants and denounced that this cross-denunciation has occurred. In addition, I can tell you that, within the quality process of gender-based violence established by Ertzaintza, it is guaranteed by the team responsible for that process that this information is given. Some of the policies of the police are also re-examined in the Border, and, for example, those which concern the Foreign Law, and even in the applications of the Foreign Law, have been observed to produce in women such a state of vulnerability, when the border approaches to them, because they think they are going to apply it to them. And here we also had the appearance of the Chief of Beltran de Heridas with several of the authorities of the Borders, and we were informed of another plan, which has also been set up in action against treating the Borders. And yet, in order to avoid other crimes, was it not for the sake of applying the law to strangers, but for the sake of avoiding other crimes? In this report also, it is mentioned that we need more women's edges and that's what we agree. And they're making trials. And a lot. And the bordering, well, has even been part of working girls to bring women in because there might be a good professional opportunity to be on the edge. But this is not easy, and even now there's the last promotion in the academy and we have to say that if the proportion of woman isn't what we want it to be. But they're doing it, well, they're working on it too. And even in the police law plans, there are so many precautions that to make it easier for a woman to be seen in the police as well, isn't it? And so many other measures are already considered and filled. Well, the prisoner's rights are clearly explained. This fundamental notion of purity, which is often spoken of. How do you do cachetes because you're a woman? Well, he's reborn, but he's full of guarantees. And many other assurances are also re-established. But it must also be observed that in these matters Europe marks many and many protocols, and that there is no change in the hands of the Border. I think that from this report there are some very interesting consequences. I put the report in the value of the event, because it is true that the rank of arrest or percentage of women is very small to men, it has been 10% or it has been the percentage of women who have passed through the clabozoes in 2017. Well, that doesn't mean they're not arresting women. And you should note that at any moment there can be certain peculiarities, because it's true that police stations are rather masturlinized, and if that's what it takes to be, that this state of vulnerability can be increased in a woman, can't it? It's true that the arrests are getting fewer and fewer, Ms. Rojo said, more and more, especially with women. This report also states that the police consider the state of the women arrested. And that all legal guarantees are met with during the arrest process. So I think we all agree. And, Ms. Arana, I must tell you that we were nearer to your original proposal than that of the middle course you have introduced, because I believe that the correction which Mrs. And as it is also written, so many accounts are given as if they were going to happen, because in the police station we have to run a protocol to avoid sexual abuse and avoiding it. And it's written as it is, 'cause it looks like that kind of thing happens in our border houses. And this report doesn't say anything like that at all. He just says that legal guarantees are fulfilled. And women, in so far as they are women, are always considered. I think, then, that the view of the genus is considered in the niceties. Is there still a lot to do? Sure. We all agree, there's a lot to be done. But I'll tell you what, don't you ever question the commitment to our team and to our fun with equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. In the middle of the team that hasn't been running any corrections, the USAPulag representative, Mrs. Llanos has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u72	Thank you again, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, I think it is true that the concern about this topic should not at least be or seem to be a monopoly of some groups, because I think it is something general, of everyone. Because, indeed, as Mrs Arana said, in 2003 the United Nations General Assembly, in its resolution 58/183, urges Governments, agencies and institutions to pay greater attention to the issue of women in prison, including the children of women in prison, in order to identify the fundamental problems and ways of addressing them. A further step was taken with the adoption of the rules for the treatment of women prisoners and non-custodial measures for women offenders or Bangkok Rules, as mentioned here, in 2011. A normative body consisting of 70 rules, ranging from general principles to more specific ones, such as minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners, which established the need and importance of raising awareness among the general population of the situation of special vulnerability faced by women deprived of their liberty. But to point out that it seems that as in this matter nothing has been done or that nothing has been done so far, and to say that there are actions in the rest of Spain as well as in Euskadi. For example, in the rest of Spain, for example, the National Police has not long established the National Office for Gender Equality. It has also organized, for example, a course on gender equality in the National Police, which establishes the need to train executive-level officers and to lead the 32 focal points in the National Office, and to enhance institutional relations with other external agencies with competence in this area. In Euskadi, it should be noted that the Basque public authorities must incorporate a gender perspective into all their policies and actions, so as to establish in all of them the general objective of eliminating inequalities and promoting equality between men and women. Thus, Emakunde points out that integrating the gender perspective means systematically considering the different situations, conditions, aspirations and needs of women and men, incorporating specific objectives and actions aimed at eliminating inequalities and promoting equality in all policies and actions, at all levels and at all stages of planning, implementation and evaluation. Therefore, taking into account national, international and own legislation, this gender perspective should be included in all policies and, therefore, also in security policies. I believe that so far, and as Mrs Red told you, we all agree, that the concern is common and that I believe that the actions of all the institutions and, therefore, also of the Department of Security are something that we have all spoken about. The initiative that shows, or is based on the same proposer when it comes to putting it, is the experience, the experience of the police detention of women in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, whose conclusions were presented, as has been said, in the Committee on Security of this Parliament. What happens is that I, hearing some of the speeches I have heard here, believe that we have heard different things or have read different things in the report, right?, because in those conclusions it was pointed out, first and foremost, that the number of women detained is much lower than that of men, according to Ertzaintza data, which also coincide with the data of local police; of the total number of persons arrested or charged, indeed, compared to 89.1% of men, only 10.9% correspond to women. Although it is true that in recent years the number of women's detentions has increased as a percentage of men. And most of the women's arrests – I am here, Mrs Etxebarrieta, you have made some interventions, haven't you? – and they are provoked by crimes against heritage. I don't know, some of the laws that you have referred to that influence or not, most of the women's arrests are caused by crimes against heritage, which I believe against heritage, there introduce gender specificity in a differentiated treatment, I don't see it, but good. We were talking about the Bangkok Rules, but it should also be noted that they refer primarily to women prisoners and we cannot forget that, in any case, one thing is the stay in prison and another is the situation of detention, which, as the same report indicates, does not last more than 24 hours in Euskadi. The work itself recognizes that the ISO 9001 standard, which has been implemented in the Ertzaintza since 2001, sets out a number of objectives to be met during the different stages of detention, in order to guarantee its quality, and the minimum duration throughout the process, and it is also true that it could be exerting a persuasive effect in favour of avoiding arrests and, where appropriate, prioritizing charges. And it sees this trend as clearly positive, because it has reduced the number of arrests and, therefore, the number of people and the number of women, of course, passing through police cells. It is true that it established as one of its perhaps negative questions that, given this speed, sometimes they might not understand, but do not understand either men or women, but I do not consider that a woman has less ability to reason to understand the reasons for detention, which in any case are explained to her, than a man. And if there are aspects of improvement in that sense, we will have to introduce them and I believe that the Ertzaintza will introduce them, but I say the same for a man as for a woman. It is true that the report undoubtedly brings very interesting conclusions, and that I believe that they should be taken into account and that they will be taken into account by the Department of Security, within its own equality plan, because, as has been said here, the Department of Security already has its equality plan. A plan which will also be affected, as has also been said here, because very recently, in this month of May, the VII Plan for Women and Men of the Basque Autonomous Community has been approved, from which the rest of the plans of the departments will subsequently emerge or will have to be modified, because each department has its own equality plan. We believe that it is within those plans and actions of the Department of Safety and Security that the conclusions of this report should be taken into account and to the extent that they can be taken into account, because, as has been said here, some of those conclusions, putting them into practice, have difficulty. It has come here to say that Ertzaintza has no gender training. Yes, he does. That it can be improved? That there is always scope for improvement? Probably, but he has it, he has it. There are, as I said earlier, other contributions which are made that I believe should be taken into account, not only in the case of women's arrests, but also in the case of men's arrests. And it is true that in some of the issues, in some of the approaches, I wonder whether that treatment that is being attempted or that gender-distinguishing perspective that is being tried to give to women, if more than introducing the gender perspective, we would not be or, in the end, may be at risk of being involved in something that the drafters of the report themselves said that the detainees proclaimed, that excess of paternalism that sometimes existed with the women themselves. I believe that sometimes neutrality in detention is not something, that is, neutral behavior towards a detainee – whether male or female – is not something negative; because sometimes introducing such differences can lead to paternalism that was also rejected by the drafters of the report. As I say, we consider the contributions to be interesting, but that, in any case, some of the questions arise as if they were novel when we believe that they are already being implemented and that, of course, we did not see the need for a specific plan, but rather, within that plan, include those contributions. As I said, action is already being taken, for example in November last year Security organized a day to promote equality policies in the Ertzaintza and local police officers aimed at officers, aimed at explaining why and how to integrate the gender perspective within the police, in which precisely the experiences of different police officers were analyzed. Then there are – which we will certainly have to pronounce when the initiative comes, to which I have referred the spokesman of EH Bildu – some specific issues, such as the basic kit that if I come out again I will refer to or if not in that initiative I will refer to. For example, the recommendation that there should be a female agent in all the police stations, because it will be difficult to comply with it until we reach a number of women in the Ertzaintza comparable to that of men, because otherwise this guarantee could go against the women agents themselves and the professional career of the women agents themselves. With regard to the issue of cross-denunciations, and the perverse effect that they can have and that we can agree with, I believe that they transcend a purely detention issue at that time. Why? Because, you have been told here, when a person, in that case a man, is going to report the person he allegedly assaulted and filed a complaint with, an agent of the Ertzaintza is obliged to collect that complaint. What is quite different is that an approach is then taken which, as I say, would be more within the judicial or legislative sphere, in order to avoid precisely that perverse effect that cross-complaints can produce. And well, I believe that EH Bildu – I am finishing, Madam President – if I believe that the intervention here has practically come to us to talk about the social bases and the elimination of machism that I believe is sincerely transcending, of the concrete initiative that here brought us to debate, and in relation to the last paragraph, I have to agree with Mrs Berasaluze, who says that in agreeing, as we are undoubtedly in this group with the absolute inadmissibility of the existence of sexual abuse or abuse, it gives the feeling, with the amendment that you have proposed, that this is a usual practice in Ertzaintza and that no measures are to be taken so that they do not occur, and all the contrary, there are protocols of action in Ertzaintza, as in the rest of the police, precisely to ensure that the treatment of all detained persons is the right and proper one. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u73	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The answer time, together Podemos, Ms. Arana, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u74	Eskerrik asko again. Mrs Red, it is a shame that, being so agreed, so agreed – at least for what you have given me to understand by your words – I refer to a text that you did not like or that there were improved nuances and we had no answer, no proposal. I'm sorry for that, because we really intend, from the beginning, and I think you're already getting to know us, is to reach agreements. We really still have the capacity to surprise ourselves and we really do have the PNV grab the autopilot and don't let go, and I really have my eyes like plates. If everything seems to be being done and they did not agree with many things, I repeat, they could have proposed something. They're coming to tell me, to talk about the plan. Nobody said that the Ertzaintza does not have an equality plan, we are saying that within that plan we have to make a plan to evaluate in a transversal way internal and external policies and the gender perspective; because in that report it is stated that there is a problem, and that there are police personnel who have never been asked whether or not they are looking after a gender perspective and caring for women as they should be and each one with their circumstances. In the world of women and feminists, they keep putting forward new debates, new proposals, and you at your disposal, with the autopilot, with the list of things they do and repeat over and over again, and over and over again, and that in view of the data and the reports, they are not enough. We make proposals for us to be able to eradicate, improve and overcome the current framework and what we find today. Look, there's extensive bibliography. I tell you that feminist criminology is already a widely recognized and legitimized stream. I also tell you that there are initiatives in different places in the world that are very interesting about this that we propose here today, whenever you want to sit and talk, and you juggle to throw balls out and continue with the autopilot. You're going over the second, third, fourth and all the waves of feminism and you don't even know. They really have a myopia that I'd really worry about, I'd look at it. The Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Llanos, has not even tabled an amendment, we see what concerns you about security issues and yes, you are interested only when you can do sensationalism and punitive populism with it. They portray themselves with their silence, they have not devoted a second to this problem and we believe that in that report there are many things to attend to and that we should be concerned about; not to mention the PNV and its lack of political will to reach an agreement, not a counter-proposal, not a single counter-proposal and that to Mrs Berasaluze I commented that I was willing and hoped to reach agreements and that I hoped that I would make some counter-proposal and we could talk. Tick, tack, tack, tack, I'm still waiting. I understand, your autopilot is programmed so that if you support the PP no longer bothers to negotiate, they only do when they stay out of the game board. Mrs Berasaluze, your proposals for amendments are always, and those of your party, continue to do, continue to do, what you say you do, self-critical zero, large doses and tons of self-congratulation. We propose to them to discuss and reach agreements, it is that they have not even bothered to tell us "this coma here we do not like, or this phrase we do not agree with it". It's just, really, zero proposition. The automatic pilot who, by the way, we have realized that the automatic pilot serves the policies of Emakunde in the periods run by the PNV, because there are works of that institute that were promoted during the government of the PSE that they ignore, when they do not reject. For example, Emakunde's publication on the pay gap at that time was the reason for going and coming into the agreement, I don't know if they remember. Other times they have the custom of proposing things, isolated points to save the situation and to make up their unacceptable omissions. But it is also in this case, as in many others, that you skip without any shame the rules of international recommendations, the Istanbul Convention as well as the Bangkok Rules. And you also skip the guidelines and policies of Emakunde, from the institute run by you. So, we no longer know whether to pay attention to what Emakunde says and writes or to what other people in the Government say and write, who uncompromisingly ignore their government partner. I remind her that Emakunde was the one who financed this study and, therefore, promoted the opening of Pandora's box, and Landaida herself explained during the presentation that the study's conclusions and I quote textually...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u75	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u76	I'm done right away. ... show gender differences - I didn't say it, Mrs. Landaida said it - in how the police identify and resolve it, and now they want to put it in the drawer. Automatic pilot. I ask you to tell us in your next speech what you intend to do with that study and that problem that is detected and documented, and do not come to me with any of the three options, follow, make-up things or leave policies of equality in the schooner. The amendment that you are going to adopt is designed to make up a much broader and deeper problem. We are not going to be calm or calm, we want ambitious proposals not to save the ballot, we want processes of profound changes, we want to broaden the look, integral proposals and not just one patch behind another. And I'm done, we want clear plans with leaders, timelines, targets, targets, indicators and clear resources. No more or less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u77	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Gather EH, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u78	The lower number of arrests, with fewer women in detention, is the cause of the problem. In other words, we are saying that we are in the presence of a serious invisilization problem, that women do not place themselves in the centre of pretty security, as is the case with the prison system, because we meet with a smaller number, or therefore it does not mean that we ought not to make their peculiarities and special policies, taken in this variety, which is what we were trying to reflect on here in some way. In this principle of equality, it was necessary to make a special line of the moment of arrest, which, in some measure, was fixed on the table, and which we have hitherto seen, we have said that nothing has been done, but that there is a great deal of improvement; otherwise, what has this study done? Why do we have the consequences there? Put it there? Well, I think it's time we arrived and proposed, not to say that we're putting equality into the plan. And then, yes, we tried to make fun of it, tried to get in a lot of points, so as to get to that job that was there, so to try and get some juice out of it. I don't know, there's been a lot of issues, and one of them, and we agree, that the case of the public or the crossed charges is not only applicable to the Border, clearly and clearly. But we don't think it's enough with the announcement, and we were asked to make some kind of research, because they have information, because they are the ones who get that constant information. What can we do with it? To face that, what can we do? Because we've got a problem and it's working out in the study itself, the problem has only begun, and if we let it grow up we'll find it in front of a big problem. So, we were saying, you said, you're doing a lot of things, well, if they're done, what's the point in this research? What's the point of keeping making proposals? Apaga y vámonos. I don't know, I'll close the folder and we'll never come back with proposals. That's not it. And I think it is not without doubt what you have proposed. But of course we have recourse to details, to more concrete propositions, to insert this point of view on the planet of equality, because we believe that the material we have placed on the table is sufficient to follow and improve it, or even to act upon what is not done. For you have spoken of the formation of equality, but it is precisely what we are here talking about that equality or feministness of the state which is at the moment given to them. And just in order to face this patrioticism. That's one of the problems that are happening or wrong, and that was one of the things that came up in that report. And I understand, Mrs. Llanos, that doubt you planned. But I think, either from humility, but that it must be that when we speak at last of neutrality, we are speaking of a state of neutrality; in the centre, which have hitherto been guided by politics, in the centre of which we have marked the direction of the fairs which we have hitherto described, that is to say, because there was a certain man. In that case, she will have her own peculiarities, but she will not be in danger, no doubt, to make her better. And this ain't just gonna do no good for those women who're gonna be arrested or can be. We think it's something that will do everyone a lot of good. Because the breach of this supposed neutrality, and the consideration of multiplicity, is something that will do everyone any good, and which will always contribute to positive. So, in conclusion, with the doubt that it has arisen about the protocols of sexual assaults, we are not at all saying that space is the most given, or if it were to express it, we could certainly have accepted another formula of writing; we would certainly have admitted it. But the protocols against sexual attacks must be everywhere, workplace, and space. And if we bring him here also, if we bring him to the legislature, do I say that there are more rapists here? No. We just say that this space needs it too. From the point of view of prevention, and, if it ever happens, we have all the mechanism to deal with it, as is said in any firm, because it must be here too. We were just willing to talk, and to try another way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u80	Yes, very briefly. We agree, Mrs Arana, with the objective that you propose, but this initiative, I understand, is the result of the presentation of that report on that March. And you have raised things that neither the report says, is that to make that report, it worked with women, with lawyers and with Ertzaintza herself. And you are proposing the creation of things that neither this report says, so the Government understands that the report needs to be analysed, and on the basis of the proposals in that document, that action be taken, if any. Because what we cannot deny is that many things are being done, and that this is an issue on which progress continues, and that the gender perspective must invade everything, in all policies. And I believe that it is a work that the Government is doing, a commitment that Emakunde also acquires, because there is no contradictory approach between what we parliamentarians here are proposing to the Government and what the director of Emakunde says, but I believe that the problem is perhaps in the exaggeration of the speech, not in the content of it. That is, in my humble opinion, what has happened here. And then, Mrs Olabarrieta, it cannot be concluded that the drop in detention is due to invisibility. It can't be concluded. And you wanted to discuss the issue that, I think we have told you some that the report itself recognizes that the number of women's arrests has fallen to make them more imputed, with invisibility, is that I believe that these are two things that we should not unite. And as I say, I think there are many things that could be done and I think that the refusal to vote in favour of the compromise amendment that you are proposing is, for example, in point one you propose a sub-plan of the plan. A sub-plan of the plan, Mrs. Arana. It's within the plan, a plan; that is, that's a sub-plan. So it is a little complicated, first, to elaborate it for the government itself, complicated to manage it, and then it is complicated to see exactly the policies that are achieved from the creation of tools and tools, without highlighting what we have today and demanding full compliance with what we have today. I therefore believe that the report is a positive one. I think of what I have read or what I have interpreted, but like everything, the interpretations are not always the same, it is that, although much remains to be done, everything is not so bad. What needs to be improved? Of course, in this and everything. And I believe, as I say, that the gender perspective should be involved in all government policies, but I believe that many things have been done. It is not, therefore, that we do not agree on the concern, on what is to be achieved, or on the need to put many things into action, but perhaps on the discourse itself or on how to try to shape what you intended to do. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u81	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u82	Yes, thank you. Mrs Arana, look, I find these issues serious enough not to over-pollinate in this rostrum. But I also have to tell you that eyes like dishes are left to me every time I see him in this rostrum. I usually see him from my seat. Today it is up to me to discuss with you, and you are always with your mistake that mistakes, mistakes that mistakes, giving us lessons to all, because, propose what you propose, you always end up talking about the same thing. I think he has a speech already written, that copies it and sticks it for each of the debates he brings here. And I'm not going to let you talk to me about automatic pilot, or question me here to the directors who have been in Emakunde representing the Basque Nationalist Party, or any of that, come on. I mean, and balloons out we never throw, huh? And the lessons, what I've told you before, please, the fair ones. Because the stake for equality and for including the gender perspective in all the policies that the party I represent carries out is, well, it's certainly true, that is to say. Self-congratulation too, for little, but what I have told you here is what is already being done. And I also told him that more can always be done. Obviously. And their original proposal and our amendment were not that far apart. You were talking about that sub-plan, which Mrs Red told you, that I saw no need to make a plan under another plan, because we have proposed that the conclusions that have been drawn from the report, which I believe here was the origin of your proposal, should be included in the equality plan. Because when the report was presented, I also appreciated it positively and also when talking about the lower number of women passing through the police station compared to men, it may make the issue of the presence of women in a police station invisible in some way. And that this report has brought it to light, and that from there we can draw out issues that can contribute and that we can improve the treatment of women in police stations, and that it can even apply to men, I absolutely agree, but perhaps I believe that the divergence today has been more not in content, but in ways or in forms. So, I think we need to keep moving. The Department of Safety and Security is committed to further progress, and I think I really would not have liked it at all, of course to bring the debate to the point it has reached, but I will not allow it to say anything from this rostrum either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. And finally, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u84	Thank you, Madam President, for the sixth time this morning. Well, look, Mrs Arana, look at how you and I on many issues are coincident, so, and I have told you before, I think that the monopoly on equality, on the gender perspective, should not be exercised by any group. Nor should we give lessons, not even, and I believe that this is to accuse this group or this Parliament of sensationalism because it has not tabled an amendment. Look, I think if there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that I'm making a mark on the Department of Security that's important, but not on sensational issues. I think in almost everyone, come on. I think the one who has to be with eyes like plates today is the lady counselor. But what I'm not going to do, either, is that if something is being done, just don't recognize it. It's just that I don't think it's right, not a right way to do politics. Look, when the report was presented, of which, by the way, I really do, it's just like my lack of training, or I don't know how to tell you, of knowledge on this subject, but to say that the report questioned the sanctioning system as an instrument of social control of women, I did not draw that conclusion from the report. Now, I tell you, it's also because of my lack of training in this area. Why didn't I make an amendment? Because when I heard the report – which is true that there were interesting contributions – I spoke with agents of the Ertzaintza, with trade unions, with staff who are working and who are making arrests. When you presented your proposal and a more specific proposal from Mrs Goirizelaia, I took it to different agents and asked in different police stations what was being done. And I came to the conclusion that it is true that there is room for improvement, but that it is true that many issues that were raised were being made, probably with room for improvement, but which is also requested, I believe, because in the end the groups that support the Government often put forward amendments. But in this case I think it was an instrumental amendment, because I am convinced that Emakunde has transferred that report to the Department of Security, precisely so that this margin of improvement or those actions that can help precisely this visibility – which is already visible to women – but an increase in that visibility and an increase in the introduction of a gender perspective into all security policies and, in particular, with regard to detention, I am convinced that it has been passed. But from that point on, we are starting to do a series of initiatives, as if we had done nothing, as if we were starting from scratch, as if everything here was not done, in this particular matter, certain issues. And then, I'm not going to get into each of the proposals, some of which I don't think can be done, because they would go against the women themselves – in this case the Ertzaintza agents – but look, there's one that I can't take away. He says in one of the questions: "The basic hygiene kit, which is a question to be solved in protocols of action in detention, because it is true that minimum standards of hygiene have been raised significantly over the last decades." I suppose that for any detainee, male or female, who has raised the standards of toilet. In this report, he points out that "it must be accepted that women in general, because of their gender status, are often subject to greater external monitoring of the physical aspect". Do we really need to give a special kit to the women in custody to give greater importance to that physical aspect? This is what comes in that basic kit and I refuse to have a female detainee in the special kit give certain products so that her physical appearance is valued well when she has to appear before a judge. I believe that, of course, recently in favour of equality between men and women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u85	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the argument is over, we'll vote together for the middle-direction signed by Podemos and EH Collect. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u86	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the whole corrections of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] Wait, not yet, for now. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-31.u87	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Then I'll read an institutional statement. Institutional expression of the Basque Parliament concerning the demand of releasing the defenders of the human rights of Turkey. "After the fall of the July State in 2016 has failed, human rights have been rendered formidable in Turkey, and this has produced a severe influence upon civil society. From June 2017, July, July was arrested for eleven human rights, including Amnisti, head of the International Turkish, Chief Taner Kili and the Amnisti International Director of the Turkish International, sitting down to Idil. "Turkey has locked up these activists just when they are most needed. The independent media have been silenced, speaking freely has a high cost and the Turkish population lives in fear. Their detention makes the people for whom they were fighting in the face of the relentless purge of the Turkish Government more vulnerable. None of these people have done anything wrong, yet all of them are still charged with terrorism, despite the fact that the accusations are ridiculous and unfounded. "Since there is no credible and acceptable proof to be included in the crimes which are attributed to them, the Eusgarche of the Euskulian law immediately demands the government of Turkey, and without any condition let Taner Kiliç and withdraw all the charges against the defenders of the eleven rights of mankind." As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
