ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, I have to say that the sixth point has been abandoned for another reason. First point in theme list: "In the schools of the Autonomy of Euscal, to establish a common economic unit with the taxes, a partnership contract in the development of the education program. The discussion and the final solution of the proposition proposed by the Parlamentary People of Euscals. The opposite proposition. It's the star of the Basque Group, Mrs. Bengochea has the word to defend her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u1	Good morning, Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our exhibition by saying that we perfectly assume that this is a teaching that should be given to students, but it's more, we think it's short. Why? Because of what we are aware of, of what our group is aware of, is that citizens have a vast lack of knowledge of what is the functioning, our organization, our community. Let's see, if you tell a young man to get a birth certificate, you don't know what or where to go; you have to explain it to him. If you ask for the importance of a faith of life, you don't know what or where you have to go. But it is not just that, but I dare say that a large percentage of our citizens, for example, do not distinguish between a criminal and a civil case. They don't know, they don't understand, they're bewildered. And not only that, but we can go to more things: they do not understand what the competences of the State are, what is an organic law, what is a basic law, what is the general interest, etc. And of this ignorance, what happens? For this ignorance or ignorance (of which we are probably responsible, politicians, that we have not done enough pedagogy, because then we find that there are fake news, that they are accepted, even if they are incredible, but they are accepted, because people do not know how we work, there are bubbles, there is distrust towards the administrations)... With this, what our group means is that we perfectly assume that these kinds of subjects have to be taught, and that is more, they have to be increased, because knowing how your society works is basic to defend it. It is very difficult to love and defend what is not known. Now, we are here, in the beginning of what we hope will be a development of this kind of knowledge sharing about how we work, and we find this convention that I have here, which, in fact, we do not understand. Let's see, if this is a subject that's going to be given in schools, why don't you take it to 100% Education? It's just that it would be the basics. It is as if we are studying the roads of Euskadi and we would also ask the relevant Members of Parliament to contribute money. Education is a competence of the Basque Government; we will review our skills and the distribution of money a little bit. I know that the percentages vary, but roughly speaking, from everything that is collected in Euskadi, the Basque Government has 70%, roughly; the deputies, 15%, and the municipalities, from the other 15%. That is to say, with 15% of the seats, they have to deal with things that are fundamental to the lives of citizens, such as some competences in the environment, competences in urban planning, competences on roads... And I would like to remind you that, for example, in Gipuzkoa the motorway collects all traffic, not only from Gipuzkoa, not only from Euskadi, not only from Spain, not only from Europeans, adding Portugal, but transcontinental, many goods that cross from the African continent pass through Irun. Keeping that kind of road is an incredible effort. But more than these competences, what concerns our group, are the competences that the deputy in social welfare has. We have created a series of expectations (and we must maintain and increase them) as to what service the deputies have to give to all those who need their fellow citizens to carry on, that this is a chapter that is going to increase, increase and increase with the aging of the population. Then it turns out that with that 15% the parliaments have to deal with the attention of more and more services, more sophisticated and with a greater number of people who request them. On the other hand, we have that the Basque Government has 70% (of course with very important competences: health, safety, education... But of course, if you have education, why are you going to ask the outlaws (who have their own powers, who have resources, I will not say little, but above all what they have are growing demands – especially in the field of social welfare and with more and more citizens demanding them –)... why do you have to pay something that is exclusively for Education? Look, here I have the agreement (and also something that is starting timidly, because we are not even talking about covering all educational institutions): for stage 18-19, only 39% of educational institutions will be covered (for the truth, these are discrimination, because I believe that we all want our children to receive this type of education); for stage 2019-2020, only 52% of the schools will be covered, and for the last year for which forecasts are made, which is the 2020-2021 course, we only reach 70% of the centres. Why don't we generalize this education? And then, we can go to money, and the truth does not seem to be an extraordinary amount, because during these three years the Basque Government will cost 646,000 euros. Let us see, if we were at a retrogressive stage, at a stage of increasing difficulties, but I think we all agree that we are at an expansive stage. We have been able to read the data recently in the press that in these first two months of the year (January, February and a March piece) they augured a surplus over the calculated budgets; more money was going to be raised. Therefore, I think we all agree that we are in an expansive era, thank God. So, let's see, if these three years are going to cost the Department of Education 646,000 euros, why do you have to charge the Foral Chamber of Alava 41,000, the Foral Chamber of Bizkaia 158,000 and the Foral Chamber of Gipuzkoa 123,000? We are talking about this deadline, the deadline for calculating the convention, which ends in course 20-21. We are not talking about large amounts, and less at a time, as I say, expansive. What are you going to do with all the money that was raised extra last year? What will be done with all the money that is calculated on the basis of the data that we already have from the first months of the year, what will be done with all that money next year, when the liquidation is done? There's money! Don't tell me there isn't, because there is! Don't tell me this isn't a matter of education, because it is! So, I believe (it is clear to our group) that this has to be assumed by Education. And, as we say, being the first stone of an education about how we work, it has to continue to develop. And besides, look, it's not that hard. Yesterday and before yesterday, to prepare this point, I read again the Statute of Gernika, to see the competences, etc. The Statute of Gernika is 19 Paginitas, it is nothing more. We're not talking here about incomprehensible archanes about how we work. 19 pages. So I say (because, of course, you always look at those 19 pages of the Community out): wouldn't it be time to look at those 19 pages of the Community inwards, and to give the parliaments, and to give the municipalities the necessary funding and, above all, to assume the powers that are written there? Because, of course, to demand other powers, the first, but to execute the powers we have described in those 19 pages, ah, that which the deputies also pay. We just don't understand, we don't understand. Considering that knowing how we work is basic for any society. Yesterday, with great rejoicing (and it is understood), the representatives of the PNV came to tell us how our comrades on board had asked for an increase in the budget line, both in the Basque Government and in the Bizkaia District Council. Indeed, once this is going to be the case, there is nothing left to worry about why only in Bizkaia 35% of the schools will enjoy this education. Our goal is to make it much more than 35%. And once this is the scenario, what is asked, is that this type of knowledge reaches more centers and, therefore, is better budgeted. But before that, we answer, we face – and forgive the word – or we confront – it would be better – the agreement, because we still do not understand why a subject has to be co-financed by the deputies, with some sums, moreover, that are perfectly manageable by the Basque Government at a time of economic expansion. That is why our group is going to vote in favour of the convention not coming into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Now, on the opposite round, who wants to participate? Good. Socialists. So Mrs. Castelo has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Well, I come out today to intervene on this point, because when we had to do the distribution within the group, we understood that this was a matter that, logically, came from economics, which had little or nothing to do with the issue of education as to what its treatment was. Of course, then I was surprised that all the spokespersons from the rest of the groups that were going out were going to do it by the Department of Education. This is because what we are talking about today originates from an agreement signed in July 2017 by the finance departments of the four institutions (the three outlaws and the Basque Government), which sign an agreement to develop, in compliance with one of the actions contained in the Plan to Combat Fraud, which was drafted by the Inter-institutional Commission to Fight Fraud and which was presented in this Parliament, an action of prevention, which consisted precisely in developing a didactic unit on economics and taxation in schools, an action that was launched in 2017, and what the People's Party is asking us to do here today is to oppose its extension. He did not object to its launch – that was in July –; here appeared the members of the Anti-Fraud Commission in November, his group mentioned absolutely nothing, and it is when we arrive in March 2018 the extension of this agreement, when suddenly the People's Party jumps with it that this agreement does not have to be extended and that its only cause – the only cause you have explained there – is that it has to be paid exclusively by the Basque Government. Then, when I finish my speech and talk about the algarabía with which the Nationalist Party told you what your colleagues had done yesterday at the Bizkaia General Councils, I will tell you why what you have commented is not true. I think it is appropriate for us all to be clear what is the origin of this action, which was undertaken in a common way in the three territories last year. And I think it is appropriate because the origin of this initiative lies within the various preventive measures that are being taken in the fight against tax fraud in recent years. And it is that this particular measure, as I have already told you, was incorporated in 2017 in the Plan to Combat Fiscal Fraud, which is prepared in a unique and unitary way for the three foreign estates. We had the opportunity – I told you – to appear (and I will recommend reading the minutes of November 22, 2017, in which you will see that no group – neither yours, nor Podemos, nor EH Bildu, nor even the Nationalist Party, nor ourselves – commented or said anything about that agreement, we put absolutely no glue), in which we were given the data of what the forecasts were and which were still within the deadline. Because this is not a compulsory subject of teaching given in the Basque Country. This is a formative module to raise awareness among our future contributors of the desirability, the need to contribute to the system, so that the system has sufficient income to be able to deliver the services needed. It seems to the Socialists that the fight against tax fraud must be an integral task, which must be fought on all its fronts. This is logically one. I am not going to give you a review of the many measures that have been taken in recent years to tackle the fight against tax fraud (mainly because I thought that in the verbal opposition we were going to be with the fellow economic spokesmen and it is not going to be so), but they are measures that, as you all know, have been making improvements in the mechanisms and results of this struggle and that have been supported, on many occasions, by most political groups. I say to you that it is worthy of mention because we Socialists believe that the fight against fraud is an issue that concerns us all and each one of us and that, therefore, it is wrong who wants to question it or to party with it. And it is true that we have also stated from various fora (those of the general meetings or from this one) that, despite the fact that we have and that we have greatly improved the processes of struggle and the results obtained in the fight against tax fraud, there is still a long way to go in this field until not a single euro is left without contributing what is appropriate. So, I think sometimes, when we talk, we assume that what we have today has always been and that is not the case. It is therefore good to recall that not even five years ago, after a long and intensive negotiation between different political parties and institutions, we opened up a scenario of joint action to combat tax fraud and that is why the Interinstitutional Commission on Fraud was set up, which is responsible for drawing up the joint plan for the three territories. This was done for the first time in 2014. We only have two evaluations carried out and a plan in place right now; that is, we have four plans: this has not been the whole life. In those consensual plans – don't forget – between the outlaws, economic departments and the Basque Government is this action from which that agreement derives. Thus, in 2016, within what the plan says "Promotion of civic-tributory education", it says that we must strengthen the collective fiscal awareness of citizens by promoting educational actions aimed not at concrete content: here we do not talk about what to do with a faith of life, we do not talk about the issue of the roads of Irún, we do not talk about the competences of the autonomous communities or of the State...; here what we are talking about is to ensure that from an early age there is a fiscal awareness, addressing a theme from ethical training and citizenship. If you were so interested, surely, in these mandatory content of awareness, that you know each other, that the Administration is not something far away for students, and for the promotion of certain values, moreover, as you have said, necessary, and so on, surely it would have been much better if the People's Party had not been brushed, as it was brushed, the subject of Education for Citizenship. I mean, what we can't do is one thing and the other. But already in 2017 among the preventive actions of the Joint Plan to Combat Fraud one particular one was contemplated and was the realization of an educational module – an educational module, not a subject – that will be taught in those educational centers that voluntarily adhere to the project (because you already know that there are a number of options in which you can work within the curriculum, not within the mandatory ones, to which the centers can choose, the same in road education, to raise awareness regarding the risks, or other types of issues that are carried out from the different centers in that capacity that they have to develop their own model). So I hope, and I hope, that the implementation of this proposal (which originates from the convention that is being extended and opposed in this Parliament by the People's Party) will continue and that this Parliament will reject its opposition and that we will be able to move forward with this tax awareness of citizenship from an early age. Furthermore, it must be borne in mind that the satisfaction with the reception of this module has been satisfactory and has been shown to us in the Committee on Follow-up to the Convention. It is true that in 2017, although the deadline for subscription had not yet expired, we already had almost 90 centers affiliated to this program. And I think it is essential that you understand that this is one more step in the fight against tax fraud, it is not a question of educational curriculum. It is a measure to combat tax fraud, which is the responsibility of all the Basque administrations; not the Basque Government: it is the Member States and the Government. It is not a question in the sense raised by the People's Party, but rather that this measure is driven by the departments of finance and economics, in collaboration – as it cannot be otherwise when the schools want to be used as an instrument or as a vehicle – with the Department of Education of the Basque Government. That is why their funding is shared. That, by the way, this shared funding has been assumed without any question by the three outlaws and by the Basque Government. Therefore, where there is no problem I don't know why you want to create them. And I, it's true that I was going to finish my speech with that curious coincidence that you called "algarabía." But of course, it's just that you look at what happened yesterday. Yesterday at the General Councils your spokesman, Mr Ruiz, presented a non-standard proposal that he had registered not three days ago, that is, not after you opposed the convention and, since the convention is not going to be able to paralyse, then we ask for more money because we want it to be extended (that is not true); Mr Ruiz had registered this initiative in January, and after that initiative in January, you, in March, have registered in this Parliament the issue of suspension and non-contribution. I mean, it was one thing before and then the other came. The justification for Mr Ruiz's proposal in January (in November we knew the proceedings here because the Committee on Combating Fraud, the interinstitutional committee, appeared to us and explained it to all the economic spokesmen, that was in November); in January, his colleague at the General Councils in Bizkaia, in the Chamber, in those Chambers to which you question to contribute, say or base it on the necessary fight against tax fraud. In other words, he did not err in what was the substratum of this action and knew perfectly well that this was about tax fraud and the need – and he says it textually in his initiative – to "incide and deepen the pedagogy as a key element to raise awareness and raise awareness of the need to comply with future contributors". We do not intend to explain the income tax, we do not intend to explain the company tax, we do not intend to explain the guts of the tax system... It is not a matter of content, it is a question of ethics, it is a question of principles, it is a question of understanding how to enter and how to spend, and why that need to meet obligations, because that generates resources for us to then pay for services and be able to meet their needs as citizens. In that sense – which he understood perfectly – he commented that it was necessary to comply with fiscal obligations, and I all this, so far, is what I share. But so far the consistency of the proposals of the People's Party came. Remember: January your partner in Juntas, March you here. And I imagine that depending on the rostrum that you use, the general meetings or those of Parliament, because you do different issues, because what Mr Ruiz requested yesterday at the General Councils in Bizkaia is that the budget allocation should be increased. In January, before you objected to this agreement. And what you are telling me here is that they do not put anything in it, that this is only paid for by the Basque Government, because you do not understand that this does not come from an educational issue, but from an action against tax fraud. So, I think what we have is a theme, so, as curious (at my house they would say, "We have an important cocoa"). It is better than the same that you first clarify if what you want is to expand, that this reaches more centers..., or if what you want is not to be financed because you believe that this has to be a compulsory subject... When you are clear, you can ask others whether or not to support your actions, but in the meantime, what we believe is that in the fight against tax fraud what has always been good for us and what has always been successful has been the unity of action and the failure to engage in partisan attitudes on these issues. What makes no sense is that on this issue in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the appropriate appearances nothing is said or questioned and then suddenly someone comes up with a tangential attempt to prevent action to combat tax fraud from being paralysed by this Parliament. From our point of view that is totally inconsistent and also dangerous. In the fight against tax fraud not a single step back. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. In the turn of answers, Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u5	I understand the frustration of the representative of the Socialist Group, because she wanted to measure herself against what she must think to be a higher level, such as the economic spokespersons. And of course, the poor woman has had a displeasure, because she has had to talk to humble representatives of education. I, truly sorry, understand that you fly in a higher status. But I will also tell you one thing: I understand that you believe it, but it will never make me believe it, because I believe that education is probably one of the pillars of this society. The representative of the Socialist Group loves to talk about "you must, you have to think, you don't know what". Look, that's a position – I'm trying to find a word that's not too offensive and I can't find it. You, you, let us others think what we want, that we defend what we want, that we manifest ourselves here – which is the House where we have the freedom to speak – and, please, don't give us so many lessons from "Miss Rottenmeier": "It's that you don't understand, it's that you don't know what...". Quiet. You continue to overfloat in your great heights and let others at least exist. And of course, it makes it so easy for me! You talk about coherence. Let's see, if at the moment there is a political party that says in some things one yes, one thing; in others, others; that today defends this, tomorrow happens to defend the other..., it is the Socialist Party. Please don't make it so easy for me! I still remember the statements of his secretary general in Euskadi before we reached an agreement on tax reform and those he made later. Don't make it so easy for me, don't make it so easy for me. And I'm also going to tell you why, because I want to respect you (what you don't do to others), I want to respect you, I understand you have your opinion, and I take it, but, of course, when you start giving lessons here, it's that you have to have the patience of Saint Job not to answer them. That's for starters. Then, let's see, if we all agree on the sharing of this knowledge, you draw the opponent with horns and tails, that we do not want to fight tax fraud, and it reaffirms itself. But really, really, have you heard me? We are the first to fight tax fraud. I am also going to tell you one thing, we believe that this subject is necessary, as I have said, and also extended to how we work; but I am going to tell you that probably those who know the most about taxation and those who know the most about taxation are the defrauders, they know how to do it because they know perfectly well about taxation and taxation. Now, I understand that we have to train our young people and, as I say, in much broader fields of our coexistence and what we do. And from ours for you – for you, not for us – the insignificance of representatives of education – for you, not for us – we tell you that education is paid by the Basque Government, and this is something educational and educational, and it will pay – well, it will not pay because we will not win – it should be paid by the Basque Government. And we'll tell him again. And of course we know that the level of satisfaction is very high, of course, of course we do, so we want it to be extended to more centres. We know it's an option, but we want training in how we work to be basic, and it's basic, too, I tell you, so that then people don't create fakes, there's no bubbles, there's no mistrust, so that they love our society, because what is not known is not loved, I've already told you. So, we stand in our position and, indeed, what I am going to ask of you is a little more respect for the different areas that make up the work in our society and for the different groups that defend different positions. Lessons, few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. To answer, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u7	Every time he comes down, he leaves a ball. I go out to the rostrum so that you don't take offense, so that if I don't go out and answer you from the seat it doesn't seem to you that I don't give you enough importance. Look, it's complicated to frustrate me. Disgusting me too, lighting something simpler, but you are not going to get it on this issue and I come out for two seconds to intervene. I have not said that the economy is a higher area than education, you will know what complexes it has. What I told you is that we were very clear that the origin of these measures, of this agreement, was not in the Department of Education, was in the Department of Economics, because it is an action to combat tax fraud. If you find it offensive that I go out here and give you data and tell you questions or clarify concepts, that's a problem you have, don't think of me. If you had no more arguments to discuss today, if you had no more questions to tell and you had to fill out here a few minutes, that's your problem, not mine, and when I find you incoherent at this particular point, is that you yesterday asked for more there and less here, and you can't ask for one and the opposite, because that of the coherence that you are now claiming with a loudspeaker in hand at other places where you say "is that some say one thing and then the opposite," or this month a thing and such... Well, if you don't want or want to be able to say that, you'll have to apply it beforehand. And there can be no opposite actions and the following. I mean, you can't brush Education for Citizenship (which by the way, being from your educational field has not answered it to me) and then say that people don't know certain issues, principles or values. So, I think you – with all the respect that I can tell you and, by the way, I when I intervene then do not rectify my party, because I tend to be respectful though insidious – what we have done, well, of course... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u8	Silence, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u9	I say it with respect.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u10	Please be quiet. Please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u11	I say the questions with respect, that they don't like it is something else, but that happens to me in many areas of my life. I'm used to saying things, then people say it in the hallways; I say it in front of you and you're offended. I have said it with all due respect, I in the rostrum have neither offended nor come from "Miss Rottenmeier" nor I like to be told by other people that it comes from other issues. When I come down here under the arguments that I believe, personally and from the point of view of my political group, that they are the ones to be contrasted with the formation that the proposal has made. If that seems to you to be a "Miss Rottenmeier", it is a problem that you have. I will tell you one thing: in this matter I believe you have not convinced. They have not convinced on two issues, because they have not given valid arguments and, secondly, because they do one and the other: there they ask for more and here they ask for less. Therefore we cannot under any circumstances..., and we also encourage the rest of the parliamentary arch not to accept the opposition to the extension of the convention that you have requested.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Now that the argument has ended, we'll vote with the contrary proposal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 9; contraries, 53; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u13	So it's not accepted. We'll go next to vote, and in the first place we'll go together Podemos. Your word is broad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u14	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. The question, in our group, is not the tax education that finances, but the question of another private company, which it really requires to be financed. Is it necessary to hire a private company to run a tactical unit? Shouldn't the Board of Education join with its resources? We should review the situation from where and how the project came from. Five years ago, the Thure of Gipuz started the tax education module at several schools in the country. That's when theactic unit we've got now was established. The Giant Fordal Forum, who doesn't have educational power, hired a company to start the project. That was logical. On the other hand, three years ago, regardless of Gipulia's experience, the Councillor Cristina Urarte promised to make his own education project in the year 2015-2016. But nothing had been accomplished. The funk and the funk and the funties were supposed to be an extra-asse to fight the tax-heating against fraud. The consequence of this reflection was, that the education was doing little, that was last year's decision to attach to the Gipulia project, that is, to interact with, and so they hired a company following the example of Gipulia. Our band, a year ago, introduced an illegal proposal in the tax firms to take the rudder and dictate it, even though two years later, to fulfill it, both DBHn and LHn. Due to the problems of our schedule, we planned that it would be discussed on May 30th at the Board of Education. What a coincidence it is that one day before the ogasuns of the three aldudians, Peter Sub-Shane and Cristina U.S., had a press conference in order to explain the whereabouts of the project. Thus education seemed to have done something, to have been an active part, but it was not so: he did nothing but explain himself to this photograph, and it was the bakers who did all the work in the house (and from this point of view our thanks for the work they had done to our charities). While it seems to us positive to work together and in collaboration, from Elkarrekin We can insist that the Education Department should be the one to lead the project and put the necessary means at its disposal (without that practice, increasingly usual, of the Basque administrations to outsource services) and, by the way, to implement tax education also in primary school. Of course, this course has been of transition, so we advocate that the duration of the convention in the current terms should no longer be extended in time. In that interim Education has arranged a whole course to update with the berritzeguns a project that, moreover, is already developed and checked by Gipuzkoa since, I insist, five years ago, and that it can work perfectly without the help of any external company. Or is it that the environmental departments of the Member States finance educational units dealing, for example, with pollution prevention? I don't think so. Precisely why we wanted to put time limits on that transition, on that unfulfilled commitment of the counselor, but we were not allowed when we voted our GNP in May 2017, we were not allowed the time limits. In short, we believe that the debate is not who finances the project, but whether it is necessary to hire an external company for it, rather than to train the existing teacher, spending nothing more and nothing less than 646,000 euros of public money in three years when we should leave for free. We say no to public outsourcing. That is why we do not want the convention to be extended in terms of financing its development and implementation, which is not an obstacle, so that there can continue to be a necessary collaboration on educational content with the parliaments and the social partners. That way, it'll be our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u16	Good morning, everyone. Because we don't share the arguments the Poppsi has shown against the agreement, we've refused. We have refused to return the agreement, as you did the former with complete consistency, because you did it this evening, and brought the discussion here. We've given the negative because we don't yet know the results of this program 2017 and 2018, and we haven't had a chance to investigate the consequences. So we give another bottle of trust for three years and we'll have a chance to examine what this program is giving us and evaluate the consequences. On the other hand (I assure you, Mrs. Bengoche, at the price of my personal position, though I don't share your ideology), have you noticed? that you have here proposed the opposite of what you have proposed in the Supreme Courts of Biscay, though with great consistency, as you did when this program started, that you also came here and maintained the contrary position, and I confess to you the consistency you have. However, we won't hide it this evening, as we did the other day, we've got some worries. And I'll show you the worries that are very brief. One, same title. Because, in our humble opinion, the title is commonly connected with the substance of the content. The public system should be aactical unit about taxes, Mr. Subalguy and not economics and taxes. Because according to the model of the economy, this ditactic unit can become disturbing. And we believe that the policy of the taxation ought to be closely connected to confirm and develop the public system which guarantees the rights of the citizens. The tax policy and the public system must be completely united. And we are afraid of the pattern and furrow that can be encouraged. On the other hand, we are concerned with the fact that the counterpoise of service for the doactical unit is visible, since we have trained teachers and formats. And if they're not, then we can cook them, right? And what kind of company can take the leadership, there's a line or something else. It's also troubling us that aliens can change the content of the diactical unit. Hence provincialism may be encouraged from the aldudias, and the rates of kingdoms may be encouraged: three countries three models. And that's what we think is not exemplary or useful. On the other hand, the political policy which is fostered by the Aldunities of the present day, and which is still in force, is the opposite of philosophy and content which was placed on the table, and which are not in the same direction. That's the philosophy we make. So if we have these concerns, we'll see what happens in the development of this program. But, come on, we're going to give you a little confidence. We're even continuing, we're asking a few questions... In 2019, we are going to start the evacuation of the ditactical unit and we'll have a chance to contribute. What a pity it is that there is only one chance of a contract coming back or not, and not having before the opportunity to make offers and to form a ditactical unit, or to form this agreement, because it seems to me to be inconsequent. Because we have a culture, a beautiful possibility of a thought, a culture of correlative, a collective personality, culture of transparency, social justice, social cohesion, solidarity... We must understand that what is good for all of us is good for each man and for himself, and in this society we have difficulty in understanding it. We need to understand the health centers, the ambulances, the doctors, the schools, the public transports, the domestic services... and it seems to us that this is the fundamental policy of the prosecutor and its fundamental principle, and that it is possible to make a work there. And finally, in the discussion we had last time, I'm going to throw out one thought for today, and I always say and repeat, and I won't get tired of repeating and thinking: the school cannot solve all the problems of society; we must all do it, and we must do it among all. School, don't throw down all the weights of society, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians. Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. For our party, tax education is indispensable, and thus we have more than once expressed it. Now, as of last year, the Popular Group has brought us an Adjuration against the extension of this agreement, and the other the Aldunities are not to be paid in such an enterprise. Mrs. De Bengoecha, we don't agree with you, and we don't agree with a business like that because we don't see any meaning at all, much more because you've introduced yourself in the same way last year, and the result was the same as today. Moreover, we do not understand your position, and I told you yesterday, and you have also been commented on by several of the speakers who have preceded me in the speech, when in your group at the Bizkaia General Councils you made a non-standard proposal totally contrary to what you are presenting here today. And I quote you textually. In his request, his group said that "the General Councils urge the Supreme Court of Bizkaia and the Basque Government to increase the budget allocation with the aim of extending the Tax Education Programme to the largest number of schools and pupils". What are we left with then, Mrs. De Bengoechea? However, the first steps of this Chamber of 2013 were made by a monographic dispute about the scope of the tribute. From that point on, more steps have been taken. On the one hand, there was a committee of fighting against fraud, and on the other, a plan against fraud has been introduced, and finally a new tactical unit was created in the Basque Schools to make us know these things. We see, therefore, that this initiative has not its origin in the Board of Education, but in the struggle or strategy against fraud, and that this proposition, after all, is derived from it. Hence the institutions which have a full right to this subject ought to participate in their finances, because it belongs to them, and is their own jurisdiction. In addition, on many occasions we have called from different bodies for the implementation of public policies to be inter-institutional and cross-cutting. What is more transversal than the setting up of a teaching unit on tax education through the four large public institutions in Euskadi which have competence in this area and also sharing funding equitably between them? Or what is more transversal than cooperation, collaboration and coordination between institutions and departments through each of their own competences, with a common objective, which is nothing more than to raise students' awareness of values such as taxation, justice, solidarity, etc.? Today there are more than 109 centres and 3,600 students, approximately, who have joined this fourth programme of the ESO and Baccalaureate, figures that are expected to increase throughout the next three school courses through the extension against which you have claimed today, until 2021. Anyway, I wouldn't want to end without talking about a couple of points that we think are essential. One of them is the responsibility of all the taxes, not only of a theme left on the roof of the Board of Education, or on the roof of the Treasury, but of a number of agents and promoters. And on the other hand, the end of all the citizens, and above all, that new generations should be sensitive, and that they should know how important it is to keep our taxes. In a word: we have here the great challenge, that it is more than ever at our disposal, that we are all in charge of taxing. It is for us to do this, we must be the first example, because it is our business, and that we have been chosen for it, beginning from the legislature, and being taken to all degrees, in co-working, co-working, and all the rest of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u19	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Second point on the subject list: "The bill of law made together by the parliamentary Podemos, the development of the Public Esquire by the Euskal Radio Company, to the change of the 5/1982 Law. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're parted, and then we're going to argue without having to read it. Besides Podemos, someone else would like to be a part of it? Side shift? Well, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u20	Good morning, everyone. Today, almost a year ago, we presented in this House a bill to amend the EITB Creation Act, a law that, as was made clear then, needs to be updated. In that proposal we, from Elkarrekin Podemos, proposed a series of concrete changes to the structure, some of them referring to the board of directors of the entity. As is known, he did not want to go into the process of legislative reform and was bet on reactivating the presentation for the comprehensive reform of EITB, which in the previous legislature ended in absolute failure. A legislature in which this House also repudiated the management of its director-general, who, surprisingly, I repeat, surprisingly, continues to lead Basque public television. In that bill we advocate a series of measures to reform the board of directors, a body which, in our view, has no use today, nor does it serve to carry out, because of its lack of competence, the task that advisers should be able to carry out: to control and supervise the management of the institution. The board of directors of EITB is a Florentine body, it must be made clear, a Florentine body, which is absolutely useless, something which we have been able to corroborate since it was renewed by Parliament. Those who were appointed to proposals of Elkarrekin Podemos have known its dynamics and its functioning. To this body the management comes to report on its actions once a month and to answer, almost always orally, the questions posed to it. Answering in this case is almost an euphemism, on many occasions it is not even answered or, even more serious, written answers to counsel are denied. The system of appointment of the board of directors depends on the parliamentary majorities of this House, which makes it impossible for it to be a monitoring body according to the European standards of other public television stations. We proposed from the beginning to bet on a change of roots in this system and to turn the board of directors into a real body for the control and control of the management of EITB. As I said, he preferred to reopen the paper. In other words, it was chosen not to solve the serious problem that EITB has with regard to this board of directors. It was chosen not to solve the problem at least immediately. Let's go to the competences that the EITB creation law gives to advisors. As we will see, they are in reality empty powers of effectiveness, so much so about the system of appointments and because the organ is inadequate to its functions by law. Article 8 states that: A two-thirds majority of the members shall be required for the following matters: One, for the report on the appointment of the Director-General. It is not perceptive if a sufficient majority is not reached, in which case the law says that the board of directors refrains from issuing its opinion. In other words, it is in practice the Government that has the power to make such an appointment if a two-thirds majority is not reached. Also for the approval of the plan of activities of the entity on the proposal of the management, without need of amendments of any kind. The management presented its report and the advisers voted. The replies of the parliamentary majorities on the board of directors ensure the approval of this report without any input from the advisers. A majority is also required to approve the staff of the entity and its companies. Another step to make the roller work perfectly, without the counsellors being able to make amendments or allegations. Also to approve the pay system. More of the same. To approve the preliminary draft budgets, without any chance of amendment. If rejected, it is approved by the Government, i.e. that the budget presented by the management is always approved. Finally, to determine semi-annually the percentage of programming for social and political groups. This matter has not been raised or discussed in the current board of directors. Article 9 of the Act provides for the competence of advisers in a generic manner: To ensure compliance with the principles of programming in accordance with the provisions of the Act. We do not know whether it refers to candles, because, in practice, many of these principles are not properly complied with at present, nor does it concern the right to receive objective and impartial information, nor does it oblige EITB to promote culture in Euskadi, let alone the right to citizen participation. Other jurisdiction: Receive notification of management appointments. In other words, to acknowledge receipt of finger appointments; yes, finger appointments made by the Director-General. And when asked about the reasons for some recent appointments, the reasons given have gone so far as to highlight the qualities of the selection company (the latter for a few years), without clarifying anything about the characteristics of these processes, despite the fact that information has been requested on many occasions. Another competition: Approve annual memory. The report presents the address without having to be added of any kind by the advisors. Also to report on the draft provisions on advertising. I mean, spend the moment listening to the lady counselor. Another competence is to establish regulatory rules for the issuance of advertising through public sector companies. Subject that has not been dealt with on the current board of directors, and in this respect we might say something curious that we attended last week to the issue of a report by a political party at the time of the highest hearing, without being clearly indicated, as required by the General Advertising Act, which was about advertising rather than information. Pretty worrying and suspicious, let's see if it's gonna be that someone's paying a favor to keep him from rolling any heads. Another competition: determine the percentage of own production each year. Nothing has been discussed on this matter in the current board of directors either. It is obvious that management's bet is not precisely its own production, but externalisation and privatization, even of the public service function in terms of political information spaces. Iturbe's director has never responded to this either. Another competence: to know all those issues that the Directorate-General submits to it. A euphemism not to say that what it is about is listening to sit-downs and silences what Mrs Iturbe is right to say. Finally: to know all those matters relating to the recruitment of persons and services, management and administration of the public body and of the companies and undertakings which depend on it and which the advisers request. We are aware that many of the questions that some counsellors have asked have been left unanswered and that the management has refused to give that information in writing, despite the fact that the questions are being asked in that way. Looks like the principal likes the dictation better, let's say it's from the old school. And as a pancake, we have Article 14 which says: "The Governing Council will not be able to deal with matters other than those on the agenda, unless agreed against unanimously adopted by the members attending the meeting". We have found in the law a firm bet for assembly procedures and for deliberative democracy. In summary, a board of directors to be informed, heard, watched and voted on what the director or the representative of the management attends. And so, in fact, the interventions in this council, in addition to those of the leadership, are limited to those of a few councillors who, despite all the obstacles, try to carry out the task for which they were chosen, the rest of the body present and little more, well yes, raise their hand to vote for what they have said before. The proposal that we are bringing to the debate today is very simple and, from a democratic point of view, more than necessary. We propose to add the following to this list of competences of advisers, which would amend Article 9 by adding the following paragraph: "To discuss issues that counsel consider important for the development of their control work in order to comply with the principles of transparency, public service and good governance." This proposal has several reasons to be. The first: as I have explained, it is a question of empowering those who are more able to carry out their duties, giving them the competence to discuss matters which they consider necessary to carry out it, debates, which are not currently held on the Management Board, since they can only ask questions which, once answered, do not give rise to debate because it is prevented by the Rules of Procedure, unless the magnanimity of the Director allows it as long as she wishes. The second is for democratic health, ladies and gentlemen. It is incomprehensible to us that it is assumed that the board of directors of EITB can only discuss the issues proposed by the management, that is, that the advisors lack the effective capacity to propose topics for discussion, beyond the narrow margin that the Regulation reserves for them in Article 8.1(f) which states: "Propose proposals and suggestions in the area of competences that the EITB Act reserves to the board of directors for inclusion in the agenda. " An agenda that sets the presidency, and that is so because there is no willingness to hold any debate that addresses the current problems of EITB. Let me tell you: a body in which there is no debate, it is a body that is absolutely useless. The third reason: it is a perfectly manageable measure at this time, it is not incompatible with the work of the paper, to which I shall refer later. If there was will, this addition to the law could be done quickly and ensure its entry into force within a few weeks. And the fourth and final one: it is a necessary step at the present moment of impasse and lack of direction in which it is submitted EITB: without a project and with a general director questioned. The Government's opinion on this proposal for a law, the truth is that it has not surprised us even a little. Reusing the paper as an excuse not to address the serious problems of management, transparency and governance of EITB is something perfectly understandable for those who have absolute political control of this leadership and a sufficient majority on the board of directors to give the approval to everything that the leadership presents. But with this opinion, it leaves in evidence its total and absolute lack of will to start working on the solutions that EITB needs, it leaves in evidence that it does not bet to resolve here and now the power to have an organ, such as the board of directors, that does not fulfil the role that it should have. For us it is obvious that rejecting this small change in the law, something that could be done without hindering the work of the paper, demonstrates the null will to bet on equipping people counselors with a useful tool that allows them to do, as I have already said, their task. A year ago this House decided to open, or create (I would use more the term "reopen"), the EITB Comprehensive Reform Paper. It would have been better for us – I said at the beginning – to start talking about legislative reform, so that we would bring a proposal for a law with an articulated and a proposal for minimums, ready to negotiate and to reach consensus. The tripartite voted against and the presentation was formed on 20 March last year. Well, let's talk about the work the paper has done in a year, during which it has met about six times formally, a whole show of will to speed up the work. Some work that the political groups, which had already failed in the previous parliamentary term in the same paper, had left unfulfilled. We were the first to present a proposal for a work plan with a timetable, areas of study and methodology; we committed ourselves from the beginning to it, although it was not our original proposal. I have to admit that we were a little naive: make sure that in our calendar it was proposed that the final opinion be in March 2018, and I say naive because the proposal was realistic, if there had been any will on the part of the other political forces to get to work at the pace that required the importance of the matter. What did the paper do in a year? Well, to our regret, rather little. We began by discussing whether the UPV methodology, based on the report made in the previous legislature, which served as the basis for a participatory process, seemed to us from the beginning, to others not so much, despite the fact that it was a report that had been requested and paid in the presentation of the last legislature. Many did not see the way to do it because it involved a significant disbursement. True, but it was a very complete methodology, a very complete methodology that was going to give us very complete results and information in order to be able to address the problem of Basque Public Radio-Television at root. We, from the beginning, proposed to make an agreement among other formulas, then Bildu left the press conference to say that if they did not leave the paper... After several meetings where we were stuck, we tried to unlock that situation and made another proposal... It was passing the time, Christmas came and, oh surprise!, the UPV methodology is accepted or resumed. Go back to the exit box. And there we go: a year to agree that the UPV will advise the paper, the Basque sociometer and the EITB itself to conduct opinion surveys aimed at citizens, EITB workers and experts. Delays, delays and more delays, abrupt script twists and suspicious posture changes. The last, by the way, quite surprising, went on to award the cost of this consultancy of the UPV through a minor contract, to which only Elkarrekin Podemos opposed. That is, a year to decide to start the prospective phase (and two appearances, which I forgot). Exhaustive work, an example of the commitment of the paper to citizens and EITB professionals. How late are we supposed to be? Are you willing to affirm in this House your commitment to comply with what was agreed today a year ago? In other words, should the opinion and the proposed legislative amendment for the first half of 2019 be adopted by the end of this year? We have serious doubts, but we invite you today in this House to ratify your commitment and to be able to be loud and clear so that we are all aware of what is being said here. So I'm closing up. Today we find that the parapet of the paper is again used to say no to this proposed law that we bring here, which aims to add three lines, three lines to the current law of EITB. That is to say, assuming that until the presentation is concluded – and the truth, that at the rate described things are not going very well – there will be no change in EITB! It is not going to democratize or adapt the board of directors! You're not even going to allow the counselors to have the functions they have! And this with the approval of the Government and its two partners, one of whom, as we know, reprobated the current Director General. And they're going to say no, taking refuge in procedural matters, that the board of directors ceases to be the Florentine organ (repeat: Florentine organ and useless that it is) and can begin to move towards its conversion into a true control body of EITB and its director. And I'm done. Our proposal talks about competences for further debate on the EITB board of directors. I would like us to have an opportunity to discuss it here today too, and we would be very happy. So I hope that, following my statement in favour of this proposal for a law, you will come out to express your arguments who oppose this proposal for a law, and do not use the Rules to prevent the opportunity to contrast ideas (I imagine you already know what I mean), because otherwise you will be demonstrating your null will to do so. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. On the other hand, who's going to participate? Social Partyists, Eubertarian patriots... Okay. Well, Mrs. Romero is the representative of the Basque Socialists. - Yeah? On the other side? Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u22	Madam President, 10 minutes. First of all (thank you, which I did not say when you gave me the word), I will start by not thinking of cutting, at least, no head, to see if it will happen to us like Mary Antonieta and end up cutting it to us. I think it's absolutely a waste of time. And secondly, as I have to comply with confidentiality (I am a member of the EITB board of directors and I cannot violate secrecy) and, therefore, even if I am a member of Parliament, nor am I covered by other members, I will not do so. Just by allusions I'll say, I've never been "body-in-the-box," because I think I'm pretty alive, no one has ever told me what I have to say, never, not even my party on that board, not even my party, and besides that I've never considered myself a vase. True, a lot of people have considered me, but I myself have not considered myself a vase. That said, therefore, that I consider applicable to all persons who are, out of respect for them, I cannot say anything more about a body that is subject to the confidentiality board. I've got another schedule. There has been talk of the Socialist Party. It is true that the Socialist Party during the previous parliamentary term had a series of punctual initiatives (as punctual as this one, a little more complete, but more punctual regarding the management of EITB and the management of EITB), but ended in a global agreement with many other groups on a special commission, which I do not consider to be any failure, because it was the beginning of what we now have: a global and comprehensive agreement for total reform from the foundations of EITB, in which we remain committed. And what I do want to say in this rostrum is that if the political groups want to boost EITB's comprehensive reform paper, let them say it right now and in this debate. Or do we want to keep working? Because if it's about wasting the time of extraordinary professionals, who are working to coordinate us, to support us in that participatory document, or it's about wasting too – that's what they pay us for, in that there's less problem – that of parliamentarians in exposing our ideas, our proposals in that council, it's said now and we each go to the legislative initiatives that I am convinced that we all have. We've had them for three years. We have an EITB model. Not the best, not the most perfect, the socialist; other political groups have another. Of others, we don't know. But we have ours. And if that model already has to be made, each one his, and it serves no purpose at all the presentation, we say it now and we say it already. Because it is true that the paper was created on 15 February by an agreement of this plenary, that on 9 March, after creating the paper, we discussed a proposal of law of Elkarrekin We can on modification of the board of directors (but in this case it was not only the functions, it was also the election, because we were in the period of this), but it is true that the paper was then constituted. And it is true that there have been divisions or much debate on how we were dealing with the participatory method to then come to the conclusions and proposals for reform, which will no longer be those of the PSOE, those of my group, which does have them, but that of all the political parties that we are in this House. And there I can say one thing: we have never put a problem in the Socialist Group. On the contrary: we have facilitated all the agreements, and all the groups here know that, and I believe that no one will be able to deny me. We have not voted against any of the proposals that could facilitate such participatory work that would underpin this comprehensive reform of EITB that we want. Not once! Although we were often more or less in agreement with what they had done, or more or less in agreement with different tripartites or bipartisans that were being given, and they just don't match those who are now in the government and the opposition, because in EITB's presentation we have quite a number of variables in that sense, depending on the moment we have, we have some majority or others. Therefore, we are going to be serious in the debate, we are going to be very serious and respectful of the work of the people who are, because I think I can say that neither did you in the paper, the one who did not want to cooperate, nor did the other people who are present. That there have been divergences? Yeah. That there's been a difference? Yeah. That there's been agreements? Also. And it's been very hard to achieve them. Therefore, I will begin by not even questioning the will that you and your group have had to collaborate in this presentation. Now, if the paper is not useful, and we do not want to continue working on a comprehensive reform and we are going to partial reforms, let's say, no problem. But we will not waste any more time on this House or on the professionals who assist us. That's all I ask. From respect and consideration for the political initiative of each group, because no one is obliged to work together with another in this paper, no one. Just as no one is obliged to do it loyally or not. I'm not getting involved at all. We said it in the previous consideration, the one that you mentioned, that occurred more than a year ago (it was March 1 and we are at 22), if I am not mistaken. There all the groups voted against, because we were all in favour of that presentation. I do not know what will happen now, what votes will take place on this point of view. But at that time, as we all bet on comprehensive reform in a paper, we all voted against a reform of the EITB Act that affected the council and was broader than the one that is now being presented. But, well, in this of the coherences, in the end, because it will have touched on me the subject in which we are going to be consistent in order not to get involved. And we say what we said then: that partial changes are not worth us; that in this Parliament in different legislatures nothing has been achieved with partial changes; that for us it was a triumph that there is a comprehensive reform agreement to work on a paper among all the groups in this House, because we aspire to change from top to bottom EITB as a public service, because we aspire that its professionals can develop their career in the body, to access new responsibilities. We hope that its leadership will not depend on a short-term majority and its management will not depend on political sympathies; we hope that it will have guaranteed its funding so that we have assured quality content. We are – I say again – a party that we have a proposal and we are prepared to work together with the rest of the groups in this House, not only with regard to the functions of the board of directors, but also with regard to its methods of election and other issues relating to governance, public service and transparency. Because there can be no partial reform that affects the pensions of the EITB Council, when we are dealing in a comprehensive and comprehensive way with governance, public service and transparency in the presentation. That's why I'm saying, or one thing or another. And nothing happens because a different decision is being made right now. What I hope is that it will be done with loyalty and seriousness, because people can change their minds. And as people can do, for example, when we vote, we can also do so by political groups because we understand that a certain decision to work on a paper is not the right one and we need to make specific legislative changes. And don't worry, we have made them, in the Socialist Group, we introduce them and we debate them. But then, I insist, both the work of the House, of the professionals we have hired, and of those who have been working, parliamentarians and parliamentarians, deserve to know, and we already know. More functions to the council... Yes, but it is that those functions that the parliamentary group proposes have to do with the contents that we are going to reform from top to bottom, or at least that we want to do from the Socialist Group, and that I have already mentioned, public service, transparency and governance. If we still disagree in the presentation of the concept of public service, of the transparency we want and of the governance we want for EITB, what functions will the council have on specific issues that we question, because we are not all political groups in agreement? That is our reason for voting against and because, I say again, with all due respect to the world, I will neither cut off my heads nor want to be cut off, nor am I a florist, nor call anyone a florist, no one, no one a florist, of course, not even the political adversary. But it seems to me that we have made that journey in this Parliament, and not just the Socialist Party, in specific amendments, and for once, for once, for the time being, even the majority party in this House has joined in the comprehensive reform of that paper agreement, let me say this, we are going to take advantage of that work. That is what I consider and why I say the same thing, Mrs Arana, because you know me a little bit and you know that I am saying the same thing I said in the other consideration. Same thing. Same thing. We do not want short journeys, we want a long journey, which really, in the most consensual way possible, changes from top to bottom what is Basque public radio and television, because it is a country instrument that we need, to improve it, to form it and to make a better and much more critical society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u24	Yes, thank you. Good morning, everyone. We were on our way to Abspentium today, and we were planning to vote, but together we'll change the vote after we've heard the language of Podemos, and we'll vote against it, and so I'll take part in this opposite turn. And we've changed our vote at the last minute because we don't think we're in any way a balanced interference. We didn't think it was an intervention of what had happened in the year of ponciferation or attached to it. And we, too, can agree on the balance of one year's power, and it's an empty balance. And I think that's how we all confess. There have been some obstacles, because there have been some reasons, and some excuses. As Mrs. Arana said, we had a similar argument for a year ago, and then we voted no, that the power was not yet established, and we called to join the power and the power. And then our vote was not quite promising, and the meaning of the vote we take today is quite processing, not belonging to the content. And reason and argument are the same: We have a power, and if we accept this initiative now, that would bring it to us to produce another power. It doesn't make any sense to us. But the question is, if we were to begin this course (or, in this case, Podemos,) because it has already decided, or because it sees, that ponciness is not going to produce any profit, or make any progress which it requires, it would perhaps be logical in this sense, and we would have proposed the initial abstinence in this sense, but I think that this is an exercise which we all must all do in the end. And we say: The meaning of our vote is quite procedumental. We don't agree with the contents, we don't agree with the administrative committee that's planned, but I repeat: our vote is not because we disagree, but because we think there is a place to discuss and reflect on these matters at this moment, which is ponciency. And it hasn't started. Okay, we agree. Why isn't it working? And this I would explain, for it is also said: "A press conference was held by the People of Euscal," saying, "I don't know what to do if he doesn't get out of it. It's true. The Basque Country has insisted that this year the power should be set up in the parameters and terms of the law granted here. That's what we insisted on. And, to be honest, that's why the power has been delayed. But we thought LBP... We were at LBP and among others in LBP, the question of the party who wanted to leave the first moment outside. And with EHU, or any other operator, it was possible to make a treaty with the institution to ensure it, to avoid it. And we weren't ready to get through. It must be an integrated discussion, a discussion must be about the future, and there must be a dispute about multiple sectors. Multi Sector, as this Parliament approved. And that's what we insist on, and we'll insist again. With the contents, I repeat, we disagree. Why don't we agree? Because in a future model of EIB, we believe that no administrative Council (not a modified) has room for it, because we are far beyond it. Because we speak of a law of vision, and speak of a council derived from that law of vision. Dot. We disagree. But I repeat: it is not because we disagree with that negative vote. I see a logic (if the logic is perfect) when the popular party is excluded from the peace cannity, when he decides not to participate in the peace canonity, and attempts to seduce and sabotage this peace can be made outside. I can understand that. What I don't understand is at the moment, where we all are in a poncienity where we bring such enterprises, I don't know whether to overcome it or not I don't know for what. And I repeat: Perhaps we should all do this exercise too. And if we see that this power does not seem to be given, perhaps we must all leave it, and we shall all begin here with such enterprises as every one will, both the legislator and the legislator. But we, to be honest, at this moment, the Basque People are still assembled, where there is not yet a case of participation defined and not working, and now we're betting on power. So what we plan here today is our devotion to power. The power must speed up the pace, the ponciness must speed up the work, and we believe that we ought to go to the development of what it already can give. For, I repeat (and I believe that this has been also said before), we are talking of an integral reflection, a deep shake of what EIB needs, which, in our opinion, is more proper to abstain from, than from private and isolated undertakings and enterprises, if it proceeds from a discussion and reflection which is complete. So that was the reason we changed our vote today. And I repeat: we agree, perhaps, that this course of power, this year's development, is not what we all wish for. But we believe, in some degree or other, that we are all responsible for it. And I want to emphasise this too: If we want to remove this power from these four walls, we want to encourage a reflection that is really shared by many sectors, in which professionals, professionals in the sector, where colleges, where they are interested, whichever of the audience (the audience sees it every day, or sees it every day, and sees it not every day, EITB) Well, that's the only thing you need to do. And we have seen it, I repeat, in order to avoid an essay from the first moment. And again I say we're not gonna be there. That's just it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u25	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Eubertarians. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u26	Yes, good morning, everyone. Mr. President, president, chief officers, congressmans, good morning again. Buckminster Fuller said: "Never change things by fighting against the existing. To change something, build an alternative model that makes the old one obsolete. Cooperation is the optimal strategy; selfishness is unnecessary and irrational. The war is obsolete." On 16 February 2017, as has already been said here, we discussed the launch of the EITB Comprehensive Reform Paper, on the proposal of Mrs Llanos, whom I would like to thank for her initiative at that time and for her willingness to work within the framework of this paper which she has demonstrated throughout all these months. Critical work, yes, sometimes from harsh criticism, but always from respect and from constructive will. At that debate Mrs. Aguirre said to us: "This is not a fighting matter. We'll all win if we re-create EITB because we love EIB too. We think this discussion is the debate we have to make for time. EIB is a giant and needs his time." Mrs. Aguirre was telling us that day, and today, with Mr. Urruzuno's participation, I believe, she's been very coercid about it. Mrs Arana also spoke on that day, February 16, in which we discussed the composition of the presentation and announced to us: "With this theme we will give much war." And indeed: no proposal, no spirit of work, no spirit of collaboration... Just war, nothing but war. And I, as Buckminster Fuller was convinced more than 50 years ago, am convinced that war is obsolete and that without cooperation between different it is impossible to change existing models. Therefore, my group is going to vote no to this (of course) bill. The reasons remain the same as they were to reject the bill that We Can, as has also been said here, brought us to this House and we debated on March 9, 2017 (after we had already agreed to make up the paper, Mrs Arana, not before, after). And the reasons were then, and are now, that the debate for the comprehensive reform of EITB is resided within the framework of a paper in which we are all represented groups. This is a value, yes, ma'am, Mrs Romero said, Mr Urruzuno said, this is a value, indeed, even if you are not able to see it. That we need this meeting space to carry out the work that we have entrusted, because they are hard and complex work, that is, from respect and from the spirit of collaboration, without that implying renouncing the principles and convictions of each one. Also because the necessary reforms go beyond incorporating a paragraph, a paraphernalia, at a point in an article of the law of 82, which we propose today Podemos, and whose only claim today is to have its title, to give war, but not to elaborate an alternative model. Because Lander Martínez was also telling us that March 2017, which was the one that debated at that time: "We would like to ask for a bit of measure, it will not be that some are more interested in charging with our Basque Public Radio-Television in the service of harassment strategies to the general public." Did Mr. Lander Martínez mean Elkarrekin Podemos? Have you gone from harassment strategy to general public? Perhaps they do not consider it worth working hard – because we have to work hard, Mrs Arana – to put EITB in the place that it deserves and that we all deserve Basques? And again I will bring Mrs Llanos' words here in that second debate that we had, in the March bill, when she explained her vote against the law's consideration. Mrs Llanos rightly said to us: "We consider that in this presentation, after the joint debate, after the participation of all those groups we believe should participate, where different conclusions should be reached and, where appropriate, the amendment of the Law on Creation of EITB". And Mrs Romero, in March of last year, very rightly, told us in that plenary that EITB to become the Basque audiovisual reference, needs a broader reform, and that that is why the proposal for a law on objectives and proposals (like today, even worse) was short. Mrs Romero told us: "The proposal is limited in its objectives, it is out of time – and it added to us – it is out of the way." I make these words of mine today. And in March, on the side of the EH Collector, Mr. Urruzuno participated in it and said to us: "That it has been shown to us today that the proposition of the law for us has been shown by us, in order to present it to us at the present moment, nothing of the kind. We may lead this dispute to the perfection we have formed, and there we shall have the full opportunity of talking." Therefore, seeing all this, I am convinced that in this subject, what we are willing to do, and what war we have in view. A year ago, as I said, let's go to work, we've got a piece of equipment, we're willing to have all our contributions in power and discussion. At least we do. We are working, as Mrs Romero said, assisted by professionals of great value and deserve our full respect. We have progressed slowly, it is true, but we have progressed; we have reached agreements that allow us to move forward, and we are at the time of speeding up, of working, yes, of working, Mrs Arana, and you too are welcome. We're waiting for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Passing on the answering round, Mrs. Arana, representing the Podemos team, has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u28	Mrs Romero (since the appreciation that you know I have you), your position is unsustainable. Your party reprobated the passed legislature to Mrs Iturbe for justified reasons. Reasons that continue to be given today, Mrs Romero, even more and worse, in view of the management disaster. But the PSE keeps quiet and allows the PNV to tell you what to do. Shut up and let you not bet today to take a little step to start changing things in EITB, Mrs Romero. Shut up and allow the Director General to follow the lead of EITB, a Director General that you reprobated. That's their responsibility; not ours. You will soon have to explain in this House what reasons you have not to request your immediate cessation. On the other hand, yesterday an agreement was reached on Spanish Radio-Television supported by the PSOE which seems to us to be an example of democratization in the system of choice of management and board of directors. If it has been possible to do so there, let us hope that also here: let us agree to the election by public tender linked to a project of the management of EITB and of the board of directors. It will not be us who are invigorating the presentation, Mrs Romero, or Mrs Oregi, or anything else. Our commitment is firm and I believe that this time we have shown the flexibility that we have had in all the debates, in all the agreements, but I do not like to be caught up in it, and we are running out of patience. On the confidentiality of the board of directors. I have not said anything that has been said in that council, all my arguments I have collected from the media. You'll know who you're talking to and who you're passing on confidential information to. Mrs Romero, I invite you to get out of the car with us and ask for commitments to be made in the presentation, to ask them to be fulfilled, to continue to be made and to continue working. And I didn't call him "flower," at any time; I referred to the council. We don't need to be outraged by a metaphor, we're talking about advice, not people. Mr Urruzuno, for you will know what you are defending and what interests you have. They have been making a proposal for the reform of EITB for months, which coincides in many respects with ours, you will know why you are now aligning with the government and bet on what I took you a few months ago to say that they were going to get up from the paper. The responsibility is yours; it is not ours. We have already said that our commitment to the presentation is firm, but we are not going to remain silent watching the months pass at this rate of turtle and the commitments are not fulfilled. If Bildu's okay with it, I told you, you'll know. Mrs. Oregi, I don't know where to start with you, really. The only public harassment Mrs. Iturbe does with her management. If it becomes clear to you again, we were the first to present a proposal for work. It's on the record, Mrs. Oregi. You can go to the register and look at the date. The first ones. We presented a paper to the paper entitled "Bases for unlocking the paper". Don't lie, please. We have tabled more than 20 amendments to the UPV methodology document. Us. Mostly accepted. Is that called "not working," Mrs. Oregi? Is that called not being willing to reach agreements and propose reforms to make this work? Come on, come on, let's be serious! So we don't make proposals, we're not working... How many proposals have you made? I mean, because if you want to compare we can compare the proposals and amendments that you have made to the document, the proposals and amendments that we have made, the initiatives that we have recorded on this subject, the initiatives that you have recorded... Ah, well, that you are government, okay! I'm quiet, he's got it all fixed up on the board. Look, Mrs Oregi, as I told you before, this GNP is neither an obstacle to the work of the paper nor anything of importance. It has already been stressed that we have been involved from the outset in their work and that we have made a lot of efforts, a lot of efforts, we have been very flexible (and I think we cannot be blamed for not being flexible) to try to unlock when the paper was stuck, even though some commitments made are not being fulfilled. And finally (I think I have it pointed out here and I don't want it to escape), we talk about the counselors, the law gives to the counselors – I say, because it seems to me that it is not clear – a number of competences. I have already reviewed them before, which are in fact insufficient. The board of directors of EITB is not a body that promotes or facilitates discussions, and that is something to be recognized here. There is no debate on the board of directors. It is not because of the reasons I mentioned earlier, because it has a regulation that prevents it and because there is also no political provision for that to change. Moreover, the question goes further: it is evidence that EITB has a problem of politicization of the council, which replicates parliamentary majorities; that is, it cannot be made a real control of EITB's leadership. And it is also evidence that its composition, as far as members of civil society are concerned, is completely out of date. They are under no circumstances independent representatives, at least they are not independent representatives in the meetings of the council, in which they always vote, curiously, in the sense that the government party does. That's very curious. After all, the party that governs the EITB. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Durplica's round, Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u30	Yes, thank you, Madam President. He's not touching me good things. The PSOE has done something good in Madrid, even if it is the partial reform of Radio Televisión Española. The only thing that this partial reform was absolutely necessary to change the counter-reform of the absolute majority of the People's Party, but it has not been enough to return to a quality public television (in Spain, in this case) a quality public service, with transparency, with governance, as we did when President Zapatero was here, and as we want to do here too. That is the consistency of the Socialist Party, which sometimes, like having to deal with other groups and political forces that do not think like us, because we have to change it, precisely. And I did feel alluded to, it was a comment: "People on the board of directors are going to raise their hands, they're from flower shop." I have felt personally alluded to, because, I say again, nobody tells me what I have to say, nobody tells me when I raise my hand, because sometimes I raise it differently from others.... For not breaking confidentiality, because on this subject it will have to be said that the Socialist Party has the only commitment within the government agreement is to make a comprehensive reform in EITB, which is what we are trying to do within the paper. It has no commitment to the management or management of EITB, which we believe is in interim until the reform or an absolute majority is obtained with another name, be it women or men, and replace it. If you have it, you tell us and we work it; if you have it any other group, too, they tell us and we work it. A person who meets those criteria that we all have, sufficient to lead EITB, public service, governance and transparency. There can be the white eye, I do not say no, but I really do not want to stifle this issue, if there is that name that is placed on the table, it does not have to be the Government, or the parties that are part of the Government or those of the opposition. Let's put it on. And if it doesn't get in the way of the subject. And if not, let them tell us at once if it's one thing or the other. Are we going to be on Thursdays with timely reforms of the EITB Creation Act or are we going to work on the paper? That's what we haven't been told. I make an appeal there to the People's Party: he was part of the agreement to create the paper where the comprehensive reform is going to be dealt with, said Mrs Oregi, because within it is where we are doing that work, and to be able to participate. I thank Mr Urruzuno for the commitment to continue working within the comprehensive reform, we will see what consensus or not can be reached, but we will start by working with the people who are going to help us in the participatory process, in the appearances that we have proposed all the groups and in the results given to us by the various working groups. I insist: the burning land policy has the route it has. We have to act with facts. Do you want a comprehensive reform or do you want partial reforms every Thursday? The Socialist Group is prepared for both, but let one thing or another be said. And second of all. If you have a name, by any of the groups, of a person who obtains that absolute majority, who meets the criteria that we all understand must have, and that we have not yet agreed (to lead a quality public service, with transparency and with governance), let it be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Urruzuno, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u32	To move the positions of the teams, I think they ought to give more argument than those who have been given, at least to make the Basque People move their positions in this matter. I won't go in and tell you who's doing a lot of work, which is a little bit and... I'm not going in because I don't know. I know what we have done, what we have done, and what we are about, because we believe in this power (and I repeat: it is not another thing in the world.) This power must answer to an integral EIB reform, to an integral. Or (and I repeat again) let us conclude, that this reform or perfection is over, and that every one has a free way here, that he has a green light to bring here the enterprises he pleases, both the legislator and the legislator. Because I said together, the initiative that Podemos brings here today doesn't make any sense to us. Why? If this sense were to be carried out, it would automatically bring about the origin of a power, where it is already extended. Just like that. And this is our negative, it is a projection, it is the subject of methodology, it is a procedure, because we do not agree with the content. We disagree with the contents, too. You're saying that the administrative committee is charming. We've accused that a thousand times, but we believe that this commission, which you're planning now, is not worth even the model of EITB, in future. That's our opinion. and we believe that the variations ought to be much more profound both in general and in the administrative council. Then you say "Euscal People" herself will know who he is." I repeat: We believe that the arguments ought to be stronger if they would seek or move the positions of the political parties if they would or would. We know where we are, I don't think there's need to tell you what the Basque People think of the present EITBz. The Basque Country belongs to the Collector, and the Basque Country, which Collector will present in its own time, is a proposition that will answer to this Intended Reformation of EIB, an integrated proposition. A proposition, which will give a certain shock, and not only to EIB, which is the principal public extension here, but a proposition which ought to come further to organise the field of visible eroscals. That's the position of the Basque People and that's where we stand. Therefore, I repeat, we all think that we ought all to make an error of sincerity; We're in power, or we're not. And if we are not, and if we see that the roads are already shut, because we are not able to make a treaty between all and some, then let every one do his own Carrill, and every one his own, and every one his own endeavour to present to him what he sees fit or convenient.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u33	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u35	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Eubertarians. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u36	Yes, our refusal is processing too, but that's enough. That's enough because it's not the first time this happens, and we think we have to work on that form we've formed. The law of 82, which today was intended to amend in a small part, very small, and that as a result of that amendment we were not going to have, beyond the result explained to us by Mr Urruzuno, a creation of a paper that overlaps with the one already created, says more things. It says, for example, in its Article 20, that there is a parliamentary committee that will exercise control over the performance of the public companies of the EITB body, so that it does not impede its functioning. And this operation implies, as I have already explained on other occasions, lifting the blind every day and filling with content every minute, every hour, every day, every day of the year. And for that, the entity's professionals, including its management team, need a minimum of stability. In my opinion, it is absolutely irresponsible the harassment strategy you are running towards this public service. Irresponsible and, in my opinion, unacceptable. And you told us that the paper does not go forward – I disagree, the paper goes forward, it has started to take steps and will continue to take them – but it is that in the paper some we make proposals and others dynamite proposals; some we maintain a coherent and constructive line of work from the first moment and others, you, you, are giving bandages – flexibility not, Mrs. Arana, bandages –, with the sole objective, it seems, of obtaining your 140 characters. You've come in here with 36 votes against; you're coming out with 54: think about it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. If the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. (Pause ) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 11. The contrary, 51; white, 0; abstaining, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u38	So the bill was ignored. Next, vote. Mrs. Llanos, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. I am going to explain the meaning of the vote cast by my group (which we abstained) and I am going to explain the reasons for this abstention. Firstly, we agree with the proponents that it is necessary to discuss EITB and that it is necessary to amend EITB, and it is necessary to amend it in depth. In March last year a change in the law of the public body was brought to this House and we are commenting on some issues that are perfectly applicable today. Not only is it necessary to modify the law of creation of the entity, but it is necessary to modify the EITB in a profound way, as has been said here, "from above down", for several reasons, and one is explained in the proposition itself when it says that the framework in which this law was born is a framework quite different from the current one. And we, with regard to that ad hoc amendment, did agree that, in fact, that board of directors should be a more supervisory board and a board in which there would be more debate and that the advisers could present topics for debate. And it is true that with the modification this was possible, and we agree with them. It is also true that some of the issues that appear in this amendment, which already maintain that of the entity's creation law, have been criticized for not actually being fulfilled. I believe that its fulfillment, rather than being reflected in a role, is due to the very will of the entity's leadership, which is sometimes difficult to change within a law itself. But as I said, it is necessary to change EITB from the top down, it is necessary to change the law, the model, the structure, the organization..., as other public televisions have done, because while other public televisions have carried out comprehensive reforms, here this has not been done and therefore we proposed that paper in which EITB is fully reformed, because we were in that conviction. A presentation (and it is true and I am not going to accuse anyone) that does not go as fast as we would like, a presentation in which this group has already proposed that measures should be taken to return to our television its character of public service, its character of television in which all Basques and all Basques are represented, a television that improves management, a television in which it is necessary to modify its financing, a television close to us, that deals with and addresses the issues here, the themes of Euskadi, that boosts our culture, that boosts our sport. A television that is dedicated to informing and not to indoctrination. A television that makes a flag of objectivity and plurality, that advocates to promote and collaborate in the defense of the democratic values and principles of coexistence and involved with the delegitimization of terrorism. All of this now, of course, is far short on our television, and that is why we proposed the presentation, to carry out a reform in EITB, to give EITB a new model in which all this is collected. But it's true, the paper doesn't go as fast as we'd like. And in what, of course, cannot be converted the paper is a screen that allows for no debate on ETB, that in the end the entire legislature and the defects that we have all seen in ETB continue to be maintained. We have said here that our group is prepared to work on this paper, is ready to make contributions, but it is true that if this initiative is adopted it could lead to the creation of another new paper, which would not be the most appropriate procedure and which is why we abstained. In agreement with what was proposed, we have abstained from giving that last opportunity to this presentation, because we believe that it is necessary to carry out a comprehensive reform and not to make patches, but I repeat, what can not be allowed at the end is that the presentation is a parapet not to debate on ETB, not to modify ETB and not to reform an EITB, which is necessary reform. And just a point, because it's got my attention. The truth is that the manifestation of the opposite view of the government... Man, a little more work could already have been taken by the government to show its position against, a mini paraphito that the amendment of the law does not proceed because there is already a paper... We see that the Councillor of Culture bothers to talk about EITB, but it seems that Mr Erkoreka and his department too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u40	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Third point in theme list: "Pull together the propose of the parliamentary band as regards the method of evading the pensions, and of managing the measures on the road to deserve them. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The lady of the Kortha, the representative of the EH Group, has the intention of introducing and defending the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u41	Yes, ma'am, Congressman, good day to all of you. March 17, Bilbo glued, thousands of people, according to several sources, went out into the streets in the defense of public pensions. His anger in the street of three generations, another plan of the public. Three generations in the street to deserve the present and the future. Collaboration of dignity, the entire force of Bilbon and the rest of the capitals. Our old people have shown us the value of protecting a decent life. There were also some of his distinguished members in the street, the mayor of Bilbo, and several other members of the EAJ, who were present in the street (and among others I believe Mrs. Gorospe was there). And in this state of affairs, the member of the Pactal of Toledo, representing EAJ, said that he was in a stool because they agreed with all the proclamations that were made there. The shouts of the people were clear: they demanded worthy pensions. And the organists read a document: now and then they demanded worthy pensions to come, and refused to rise to 25%, and the least decent pension they imposed in $1.80 euros. That was the one that preached there. Some of you were there, and you could hear it from there, and they said it openly, that they will not give up until they have earned a decent pension. After March 17, Monday came back. The pensioners filled the streets again, and to-day we have them at the door of this parliament (a few above), with the same demands. Well, here and today, and today, we have an opportunity to give an answer to this proclamation made on the street, to give him an emergency response. That Saturday solidarity becomes a political act. The day after the Mobilization Derio Vasco published an interesting article, and I think the data he received is worth mentioning. It was said that one of the four pensioners has a pension below 735 (at least this is the state of his friends 198.441). If we reduce another level, the situation is still more serious: If we examine the preparations below 650, it would place itself at 31% of the citizens, a friend of 1700,000. And below 500, so symbolically, almost 90,000 people. If the Focus is in widows' pensions, 60,000 people (most of them, women). And these women, as I have said, are especially affected by the situation. For ten o'clock life is supported by those who have been working without receiving wages, and who are then at full prevarication, because they are the lowest pensions they receive. As often as we have said, and you know that I have no commission to say so, it is fortunate that this member of Ercolon has a tool in some way to cover the horrible wound of those low pensions, and by means of means of an income, the pensions of almost 16000 friends (though those who receive those low pensions are much more). These facts are set before us by the pensioners, our old men, and the preparation of life, and are revealed by many pensioners, and by many of them the crudeness of their situation. Look: Yayo Herrero wrote a tweet about these mutations, and I think he got an essential idea for the discussion today: "Una socieda decente es aquaella que reconace y se ocupa de mayores, que no entiera su memory y no les conna a la precaedad." We have often repeated that an advanced society is obliged to guard and protect its members, and to build a just and advanced society, it is important to have a strong, coherent, balanced, and well-fed protection system. And among the various aspects of this system the pensioner has a central position, which is to guarantee a worthy pension for all pensioners. To guarantee this dignity, not only by asking for functions and tools to build its own system, but by applying precise measures, which relate to the prerogatives and estimates of a government. And it is more and more remarkable, and I believe that a scientific evidence is becoming, that the lodging-house system of Spain will not secure the worthy life of public life, because the pretty qualities which have been established in the Spanish State for the last years, and which have been established in the Spanish State, produce the life of pensioners in a very disturbing manner, and wholly premeditation of their condition. It's come to the end of the situation, with the prospect of the recent pensioning and revaloration of Madrid government and the dejoination of that deposing sum of consumption. And we all know the consequences: During these days we have read over and over what so many pensioners suppose of their lives and such measures. This decision, which is highly injurious, now, by so many pensioners, in the way to poverty, is entirely conditioned by the decision of the Spanish Defensor del Pæblo and Arricus, which has made them doubt, and which is the condition of modern and future pensioners. As the pre-view of growth is far greater, the maintenance of pensions from 2020 to 20% will, more or less, prevent the pensioners from loss of 13% to 15 percent. And that's a great influence on low pensions like that. And the situation doesn't look like relief. Nay, more: The situation will get worse when the new calming system is started. This question will not be a solution from the Spanish Government (as we all know here), the pensions will not rise, and the Spanish Government will not fail to listen to these pensioners' proclamations. At a great rate they will attempt to place a crab (almost a la despair, as it was said in the present day), but if they do not make changes in the present structure and organization, the system will collapse, and the pensions will have a dark future in Spain, and as one of these days received from a headline: winter is coming for many pensioners. We are connected with a poor Spanish system, which reduces pensions, and hardens the conditions of receiving them, and does not guarantee that pensions should be supplied for the short term, and still less for the length of time. And that's what we have. if we follow our present and future under the model of the state. In this sense, it is plain that we have our own system, which is our clear bet. We have said several times, and when we speak of sovereignty, we especially speak of such matters; but whilst the conditions of the construction of this peculiar system arise, we think that the anguish of state obliges us to draw us to the rescue of persons, and to step forwards to action, and to make an engagement with the pensioners of the Basque family. All the groups of people who participated in these mutations, we heard the coincidences of the pensioners. In the presence of anxiety, we are required to take measures and decisions to lighten the situation, and we have power to do so. We have been interposed to make our own decisions, and we must respond to these proclamations, we cannot hide behind the intsonized walls of this legislature. To ensure the public pensions which will ensure that all the pensioners of the community will secure a decent life, we must, we believe, be the object of public policy, and therefore, as has often been said before, we are obliged to apply the exact measure of a decent pension to all of the pensioners of Essalcal. And in this way we place the other proposal of the just as we present it to the present day. And we're asking for a very simple job, and I'm saying it's easy to plan, then... Let him dig deep in that way. For we admit that the attempt is made, but it seems to us that in this way we must endeavour more. And besides, the amount of the props that we asked to raise progressively by default from the low pensions we planned for two measures. On the one hand, we asked that the promotion of pensions should not be limited to that sum of 0.525, that the pension should be carefully examined, examined, studied, and put into action. And then, as the minimum pension of $180 was intended, we asked that in the four-year-old pensioners to apply the minimum parameters of European social letters progressively to this premier condition of women. And besides, we required a specialized administrative unit, which will be managed by the maintenance of pensions, an administrative system which may be the germ of our own system, a much lighter, more dignified, more normalized system of lodgings. This initiative sought to open a means of completing and meriting pensions within our daily jurisdictions in the safety system, by means of our interference in order to ease the embarrassment of the situation, which was our own system, to open the way to a competent system of pensioning. This is not a claim made in the heat of the street. "Nada docado a una subasta, como una subasta populist, como se decía hoy." After having closed the door of this legislature, more than 800,000 pensioners here presented, it is a proposal brought to this legislature, which we have often brought forward as a reference. We don't want to deceive anyone, and we know that the way to attain it is not easy, that in the budgets important efforts must be made, that they require some slight change, and especially that large legal agreements are needed. But in the same way the benefit which would be brought to the conditions of the pensioners would be of the size of the labour they had to do. This is why we have shown groups our flexibility and our will to negotiate; but once more it seems that we shall receive the refusal of the teams supporting the government. And it's hard for us to understand the position, because, like us, you participated in those acts on Saturday, and because the demands were clear, and it's hard to understand that you don't want to apply for this as much as possible. Nor can it be understood that the demand of the Spanish Government, when united with the mutations, has no political will to do all that is in our power here. You'll have to explain it to us, but not to us. You'll have to explain to those who were marching next to you in the streets of the capitals. We believe that, as I said earlier, a decent state takes care of and protects its elders with all the tools it has in its hands. Yesterday we were talking about this precisely, about the challenges that an ageing society has, about how we care for our elders, about how we guarantee worthy lives to the end; we were talking about policies of good living. Well, that's what we were talking about. With the approach we were talking about, we were talking about precisely this sort of thing, nothing more or less. Or is the social investment paradigm that was praised yesterday not valid for pensions, to supplement pensions? Is investment in supplementary pensions not an investment that is considered to be efficient from that point of view? We're talking about the prefect's beautiful ways to leap into worthy life. Yesterday you spent your commitment to protect the people who are most vulnerable. Well, today we're talking about the same things: to value life and life by the way we have to do together. That path that was possible yesterday, why isn't it possible today? You can't understand. Can't understand that change of posture. We have added proposals to the table, concrete propositions, concrete reference, concrete terms. We've been willing to negotiate, but no negotiation with the proposal has been offered, no opportunity to negotiate it. It is true that at the last moment there have also been slight movements. It seems as if this proposition, which up to this point had been exaggerated, was a frivolous proposition, that it was now a matter of some sort, that the pressure of the street produced by it, and I believe that we are on that road, we must put it in that way. The other day I heard of Mr. Parlamento de las Ondas, who said that we must make a large debate about it, and that we have commitments besides what we ask Madrid, and that we must talk about it. And we're glad to have had those moves today, but the symbolic policies, we said the other day, have no way. Those men and women who live in the prevarication of our interests are of no use to them; they are concrete actions and concrete commitments required. And you can bring your proposals. We're ready to analyse it. There may be different ways to end these pensions. Get your suggestions. We didn't get any. We don't know what your proposal is. You plan to compress through the RGI, but this proposal to the Reformation of the RGI, which we have just now laid down on the table, has still reduced pensioners to restrictions, and will make the situation more difficult by the first proposed measure. An RGI for housing, that complicates quite the situation of many pensioners and many pensioners in this country. So, what have you guys got to offer in the meantime? We made a proposal. We are ready, as Egibar says, to make that road together...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u42	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u43	These commitments to make. But what is your offer? What can we discuss around what? What's the use of settlements around here? Consent, honesty – or something like that Mr Iturrate said – were the keys to decent pensions. For we are willing to ask ourselves honestly, to make those analyses and to give in and to make a path together and to define. But what are you willing to do? Zer was a double dungeon? "Our proposal is frivolous," said Mr Iturrate; his proposal is unqualified, because there is no proposal, there is no proposal. The proposal is zero for all those pensioners who protested with you last Saturday in the cities of Euskal Herria. We wait for your proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u45	Good morning! From our group, from our coalition, the truth is that we agree with the content that we have read in the proposal, in this case of the proposing group, of the EH Bildu group. It is true that we do not have so much coincidence then in part, in part of Mrs Kortajarena's speech. But with the content of the initiative we agree because, above all, we believe that what is being proposed is that we use the tools that we have in Euskadi, the tools of self-government that we have here, to give a concrete and immediate response to a need that is in the pensioner sector at the moment and that is being strongly demanded in the streets, also overflowing the streets of our cities, just as it is also happening in other parts of the state. And above all because we also believe that this (as well as being able to do, beyond the nuances of how it can be done, how far we can get and where resources will come from, etc.) is compatible, and for us this is very important, to continue to defend that public pension system that exists, that is at a bad time, that some of us already consider to be their own (not their own in terms of our people or the Basque people, but their own in terms of covering the needs of pensioners and pensioners, workers of the whole State, in a concept more of class than of nation). It seems to us that both are compatible and, therefore, we agree with the content of the proposal. We believe that from this Community we also have sufficient tools to give that answer and supplement pensions so that our pensioners and our members have a decent life, because at this moment, and they are telling us very clearly on the streets, they do not have decent living conditions at this moment. We already know all the data, and Mrs Kortajarena has already given it (I do not want to repeat it), but there is a couple of data that I think are quite striking, right?, when we say that 50%, that half of the pensions in Euskadi, do not reach 1000 euros. We used to talk a lot about the milleurists, didn't we, because half of our elders don't get to milleurists. And there, it has also been said: almost one in four pensioners does not reach the interprofessional minimum wage, which is an indicator under which we are talking about absolute precariousness. And so, what the streets are telling us, the claim that is being made on the streets, besides legitimate, is absolutely justified. And that is why we believe that we need to make the most of the tools we also have in Euskadi to give an answer from here and that this is compatible with continuing to defend a public pension system, which is something we have already done in this Parliament. True, on March 1st with a good agreement, I believe that with a good agreement, although you already know that we would have liked to have included some more things in that agreement, we already did. But today what we are saying here or what is being proposed here is that, in addition to that, we use our tools to give an immediate response to our and our pensioners in Euskadi. It seems to us that this is to be done (it seems that for the moment it is not going to be done, because it seems that neither EH Bildu's proposal nor our amendment to the whole, which also contained this element, are shared neither by the People's Party, nor by the Basque Socialist Party, nor by the Basque Nationalist Party), but it seems to us that if we did so, that if we were courageous and gave that response to the elements of self-government that we have and used the supplements to pensions to guarantee a dignified life to our elders, we would also be helping that struggle that we have to do so that the system we have is indeed an effective system that guarantees decent pensions for the whole State. It would be a boost, because it would be a demonstration that public policies can be made to ensure that older women have much better pensions than they now have. In particular, in our amendment to the whole, and that is why we have not reached a compromise agreement with the EH Bildu group, because it was not going to come out even if we had agreed, that we could have done it perfectly, because we agreed on this issue of supplementary pensions, but we therefore included that other element, that of ratifying us in that agreement of 1 March, not by chance, not by repeating ourselves (also, in some way, in the amendment of PNV and PSE talk about it). We, of course, are not doing this by repeating what we have already approved and agreed in this Parliament, but because we believe that behind that agreement there is now a lack of commitment from the organizations and coalitions that sign it and vote on it, there is a lack of commitment to fight it. Of course this has to be done in the streets, it has to be done in Congress and we think it has to be done from here too. We believe that those parties that signed that agreement and support the Basque Government must also encourage the Basque Government to defend that from the Basque Government itself. We believe that the Basque Government, beyond its own powers, is also an actor who can push the whole state to agreements like this that we have reached and that would benefit all pensioners throughout the state. There's been no agreement. We understand that the groups supporting the Government were not willing to make any concessions in the sense of supplementary pensions and, in particular, I think, I do not know whether I am wrong or not, I think that in particular the Basque Nationalist Party was not willing to do this. I am saying this because the amendment that you are submitting is an amendment that says nothing. Ratify that agreement that we have already reached and then say we continue to comply with the law. Well, I understand that sometimes you have to present things to then try to negotiate, but that amendment doesn't say anything. Keep the law going, that's what it says. Well, I don't know if it's necessary to introduce an amendment to say something that we all understand, or you most of all understand, that is being done and that should continue to be done, right? And of course, when it comes to negotiating, when you don't raise anything, it's very difficult to get hair on the trigger, because if you don't have any hair on what you've put in to negotiate, you force others, you force them to bring in concrete issues, because we believe that it's about doing politics, presenting concrete issues on the basis of our ideas, you force others to, in any case, reach an agreement that practically doesn't say anything and where we leave all the elements that we think are necessary to move forward. Well, we already knew that today was going to be difficult for anything to come out of here, but it is true that we are not going to stop regretting it, because it is true that this weekend we meet people from different political parties in the overwhelming demonstrations that took place. And we think that those demonstrations were not only telling us to defend in the Congress of Deputies the reforms that my group brought to this House on March 1st and that finally they were negotiated and some more that did not enter into the agreement. I think they were also telling us that here, if we have a Parliament, if we have a Basque Government, if we have competences, if we have self-government, we have to use those tools to alleviate people's lives, because most people on the street don't understand so much about competences, but they do know that here we have some tools to improve their living conditions. And that is why it seems to us that using supplements to pensions from Euskadi to alleviate the situation of our pensioners could be done, should be done, and that this was a good initiative. And that, moreover, as I said at the beginning, this is perfectly compatible with something that for us – I have already said it once in this House – is absolutely irrevocable and unnegotiable: the defense of the improvement of that public pension system that we have at the moment and that is being heavily attacked by private interests, as I have ever said in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u46	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, this debate is a little fake. We are talking about pensions, we are talking about pensions, but the proposal of the two groups is to raise the GIR to 1,050 euros. Then, of course, we are against it. You know that. Then I will go into what they really propose, which is to raise the GIR to EUR 1,050, which is obviously within our competence, because we do not have to supplement pensions. That's what we don't have. Now, raise the RGI to 1.050, or up to 2,000, that's what we do have. They're talking about dignifying pensions. I, look, we live in one of the countries in the world where most of the world lives, including the countries of Europe. Since there is the health adviser, they explain to me which country in Europe has the health system of Spain, or of the Basque Country, which is the same. Not one, not one – no, I'm sorry – not one! And now let's talk about pensions and the dignity of pensions. In Spain the minimum is 780; the average is 1,077, the maximum is 2,580. The replacement rate is 81.8%. This means that 81.8% of the salary is paid when you retire as a pension. That's Spain. Do you like Sweden? Sweden. The replacement rate in Sweden is 36.6%. Now, Sweden, Mr Hernández, has a very peculiar system, because on the one hand it has public social security and obliges workers to contribute to private pension funds in order to supplement and reach 50%. I am saying this so that you and some members of this House can be told how it works out there. France. The average pension, like the Spanish pension; the maximum pension, 1,134. Half. Replacement rate, 61 %. Germany. Average pension, EUR 1,003; replacement rate, 38 %. With private plans, they reach 50%. United Kingdom.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Minimum pension, 108 euros (I believe it is not an underdeveloped country); maximum, 840. Now, of course, private plans reach 52%. Italy. Minimum, 501 euros. The maximum, look, no limit. It is the only country in Europe that has no limit and there they call the "golden pensioners" to those without limit, who can bring what they want and then they get the pension they want. Spain has the second highest, after Luxembourg, in Europe, but in Italy they have the "golden pensioners", whom they call them. Denmark.................................................................................................................................................................................................. Minimum, 727; maximum, 1,020. I am talking to you about public pensions, about Europe's public systems. Norway. Minimum, 870; maximum, 2,040 (similar to Spain, but slightly worse). Austria. Minimum, 604; maximum, 220. Ireland................................................................................................................................................ Minimum, 476; maximum, 488. We can also talk about Greece and the minimums (I say this because there are some who identify with these governments a lot). The minimum, 357, and going down, it's still going down. That's the least of Greece. So when we talk here about a decent public pension system, it turns out that in Spain we have one of the most worthy in the world and the best in Europe. And when we talk about what goes up or down pensions, since 2007 pensions have risen by 40%. Wages, 11%. Because there has been a government in this country that has been concerned that pensioners retain their purchasing power, which the rest of us have lost. You like to talk a lot about risk of poverty. Many times I've heard you talk about the risk rates of poverty, and how bad we are in this country... I encourage you to go out for a while, just cross borders within Europe. It sounds like a lie! In Spain, the poverty risk rate is 15.3%; in those over 66 years of age, it falls to 5.4. In Spain, the risk of poverty is not the pensioner, it is the worker. Only Denmark wins us, which is in 3.2, because in Germany they are in 9.5. I mean, at this time of talking about dignified pensions in Spain, listen, in Spain the contributor first receives a pension; the non-contributor does not receive a pension. And there are people who don't rate because they don't want to. Because he doesn't feel like it. I know people who don't count. And there are people who have low pensions, even below the minimum, in the case of some widowhood, but who also have other income, and that does not mean that you are entitled to collect the GIR or supplement the GIR, because the GIR we have put it for people who do not reach certain income, whatever type they are. Not from a source of income. And man, precisely because of the policies of the People's Party government, it is turning around, and as more jobs are created and jobs are no longer destroyed, as contributions start to exceed expenditure. Sure, and that's good. We're happy. You seem to regret it. We are very sorry, but that is what the public pension system will guarantee in the future. Mr. Hernandez, you've been warning us all day that there are people who want to charge the public system... Yes, you, burdening him with expenses of people who have not contributed and matching the minimum pensions. Look, every worker knows, and every self-employed person knows, that if he pays for the minimum, he'll get the minimum. Everyone knows this since the Social Security Act was created (I think it was in the year 60), everyone. And that whoever wants to have the most knows the savings instruments he has, if he can, but he knows. And that's the pension system. And then there's the social welfare system together that we've given ourselves, and that's where the GIR comes in. Finally, Mrs Kortajarena, you propose that we raise the GIR to EUR 1,050. By the way, I don't know why. Can anyone explain to me these 1,050 euros of the European Social Charter where they come from? What article of the European Social Charter is it in? I mean, for asking, because I've checked it out and I kind of can't find it. So, I don't know if it responds to someone's twitter, who bought it from everyone, or it's a fake news, right? Because if someone is able to tell me where that comes from in the European Social Charter, when in Spain we have the highest public pensions in all of Europe, they are telling me that we are the ones who fail to comply with it... Man, let someone explain to us why you bring us these arguments and proposals here and where you got them from. Because I will also tell you that there is the European Committee on Social Rights, that if any country signing the treaty fails to do so, there is a sanctioning procedure. And I don't know it, but I'm willing to be told, first, where this 1,050 euros (or 1,080 euros) comes from in the Social Charter, and why Spain has never been sanctioned.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u48	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u49	Well, we are going to talk again, with another variant, about what we talked about two weeks ago in this Parliament, and the Socialist Group is re-claiming in this rostrum the right and the need to have a public pension system, and the right and the real need for a public social protection network that guarantees in every household, including pensioners, the care of their vital needs. The public pension system is a right recognized in the Constitution and a necessity in a country that wants to continue to be defined as a social State. The public system of social protection is a right that we have gained here in Euskadi, knowing how to develop our own self-government, and that the Socialists want it to be expressly recognized in the future statute. And a need, which like the Basque has the firm will to move forward in a cohesive way, and that is why we are going to take advantage to reiterate today the socialist commitment to both public networks and to continue deepening them from the consensus, both in the Congress of Deputies and in this Basque Parliament. That is why we call for the closure of the obstacles imposed on the soundness of the public pension system in the last six years by an absolutely terriblely administered majority, and that is why we are working on a proposal for a reform of income guarantee income that reaches those realities that we have not been able to reach in these years, and very specifically those pensioners who have had to take care of their family members. That is the position we have come to defend in this plenary. We share the analysis from which the proposing group is based, the evident impoverishment of the majority of half a million people who in Euskadi receive a pension and the obligation of the public authorities to use our tools, of self-government in this case, to guarantee minimums of dignity in all households, as we share the objective of the European Social Charter. I repeat: we share that goal of moving towards a minimum pension that guarantees these requirements of dignity. And what we are proposing is to combine those factors to the right extent. We understand, although radically disagree, that an independentist party wants to have its own differentiated system for Euskadi. It seems to us that it is not only a bad business, if the accounts are done well, but that it is a model that excludes us from the common and shared project that we defend with the whole of Spain. That is why it seems to us that the essential thing (and two weeks ago this Parliament expressed a strong position on this matter which I would like to claim again here because it seemed to me to be a great deal of agreement, in which we were represented almost all the members of this Parliament) is that the debate is about the public nature of the pension system, its guarantee of financing and the sufficiency of the recipients; that the current pensions are updated according to the cost of living; that the lowest pensions are revalued most; that their funding is shielded so that contributions are not spent on benefits; and, in order to obtain new sources of income, that contributions are guaranteed with the recovery of labour rights nullified by the latest labour reform, which links economic improvement to wage improvement. We believe that this is the way to achieve the objective set out in the European Social Charter, the guarantee of the constitutional right to a decent pension with which all vital needs can be met. But we also do not want to avoid our responsibility in every area in which we work and have been defending that we have to express to the very last consequences the competences we have in Euskadi in order to put them at the service of the citizenry. We have defended it and we have also been doing so. As is known, this Government has assumed as its own commitment what in its day were agreements that were pushed forward in the last legislature and that affected the pensioner collective. That's what we did when Rajoy's government attacked those people with what was called the "medicine," which this April will mark its sad sixth anniversary. At that time, here in Euskadi there was a socialist government that reacted immediately with an alternative decree, which wanted to cover with our powers the hole that left that measure. That rule was appealed and suspended, and already from the opposition we devised another formula, today, by the way, consolidated, as it was the one of compensation for the payment of medicines, that each year comes to cover this right of about 100,000 pensioners and that we now want to extend to other low-income families. We also explore how to compensate energy costs for those who, as with many pensioners, for various reasons do not access social emergency aid, but their income does not allow them to meet these bills. And we know that all this is insufficient. We also find that the crisis had turned many grandparents and grandmothers into the silent network that was taking care of family obligations that should no longer be theirs, to meet the vital needs of their children and grandchildren for what was not provided for by the pensions. And that our network of protection, that of income guarantee income, was not within its reach because this situation was not contemplated. That is why, in the governance agreement, we believe that it was inescapable to address the reform of the GIR, whose debate until then had been poisoned by those who did not understand that it was not about dealing with people with needs, but rather addressing those needs and, above all, getting fewer and fewer people to have them. What the Socialists would like is for no retired person to go to the GIR because their pensions are sufficient, but the reality is that there are more than 15,000 who already go to that supplementary right today and there are more than enough to have it for reasons that have arisen. And the socialists recognize that reality and hide from none, and we look around to know how we are working on that issue, to know also what we can improve on and how. We see, for example, that in Navarre, which has the most similar protection system to ours, a pension supplement rule has just entered into force that seeks to make a similar effort to ours, but that sincerely remains quite far from guaranteeing those mythical 1,080 euros, not even with a three-year projection. Therefore, it does not seem very reasonable to me that those who did not know or wanted to do so in Navarre demand it here, in the Basque Country. Therefore, it seems to us that those of us who share this defence of the law and the need for a public pension system should not defocus the debate to the greater satisfaction of those who only want to drain the lump sum. And as far as we are concerned, we maintain our commitment to both the public system and to reform our social protection system, to strengthen it, to reach out to those who must arrive and to ensure that, above all, there are fewer people who need it, because they are able to find a decent job and because they are able to have decent pensions. And in any case, whatever the outcome of today's vote, I want to keep in mind that the majority spirit of this House is to strengthen and dignify pensions, and I want to re-emphasize what I thought was a magnificent agreement, which we reached two weeks ago in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u51	Thank you, Mr. Congressmaster, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all of you. We have a question as to how to form and to deserve pensions, as well as how to regulate measures, as we have gathered them together. The subject is very important, and the care of pensions is in the street. That's where we've got the crowded marchers on Saturday. The pensioners and young men, women, men, thousands of men of all ages, went out into the street to proclaim worthy pensions. It is not the first time that they come to be, nor shall it be the last, as they have plainly declared it. I'm sure we all agree with this proclamation, with the need of decent pensions. Who isn't for worthy pensions? Who doesn't want the pensioners to keep their purchase capacity? We have often discussed the Pents, which is the last time, and here, on March the 1st, because they are now at the common meeting of 15 days, and I confirm all that Joniaz, who is my teammate in dispute. And coming to the subject today, we think we need two very different sides, and so we get it in our middle course. On the one hand, the measures necessary to maintain a public pension system in Madrid, for we are within a jurisdiction of the state. And on the other hand, while Madrid takes precautions, what we can do here, Euskakid, in the circle of our jurisdictions. I'll start with the first point. We fully share the concern for the maintenance of a public pension system that remains a guarantee of intergenerational solidarity and that also remains an essential pillar of the welfare state. We show our commitment to a public pension system characterized by its sufficiency and sustainability, based on the existence of decent pensions in a framework of solidarity and transparency. To this end, there is a need for certain sources of funding to ensure that current and future beneficiaries, i.e. pensioners, are provided with predictable and adequate pensions. In our view, the social security system must contribute to a number of first-class social objectives. One, to be the predominant system of social protection in the field of pensions. Two, maintaining their public character in both financing and management, which favour the diversity of sources of financing and the prevalence of basic social principles as well as solidarity. Three, ensure that older persons are not at risk of poverty. Social security must therefore recognise sufficient and non-regressive minimum pensions, which must be updated in accordance with the CPI. sufficiency and irregressivity, and maintenance of purchasing power. Four, be predictable, avoiding corrective factors of uncertain and, in any case, pension-reducing developments. Five, promote solidarity. We continue to insist on the need to transfer the management of the economic system of social security, in compliance with article 18.2 of the Statute of Gernika, approved by Organic Law, 40 years ago, and pending compliance. We are fully aware that the system is facing major challenges and, in order to be able to provide solutions that adapt to that challenge, a forecast of diagnoses and proposals made well in advance is essential. This forecast is complex, but if you let time pass without doing anything, the consequences will be even more serious. And these challenges can be summed up in two large blocks: the demographic challenge (as Mrs Kortajarena also mentioned yesterday, we had a full monograph in which the demographic challenge was also discussed) and, on the other hand, the challenge of quality employment (which we have also discussed on many occasions in this forum). And I am sure you will share that the two issues are sufficiently silent and that they require the joint work of political groups, whether in the government or in the opposition, that they should be out of demagogy and populism, that we cannot waste any more time on sterile discussions. They demand a firm commitment to seek solutions to ensure that the public pension system remains sufficient and sustainable. Can't create fake spectivity. That's not the way. The measures we have to take require agreement and agreement, and at least with those we would preserve the public system. As I have said before, the challenges before us are not weak, and they must be examined in time for correct answers, and the measures to be taken, and the consequences which they will produce, we speak of short or long periods. I know you will say, or you will think it's a matter of time, but I'm sure you heard it in the day of demonstration (and in the days before and after) telling a lot of pensioners that they were going out for their nephews (and, Madame Kortja's, you said, too, that it's an intergenitarian matter). With this, I'll go on to the second part of my explanation. So, what in the meantime? Until the changes required in Madrid are completed, what? What can we do about Euskadin using our jurisdictions? In this country we have long been concerned with people who have the lowest pensions, among whom widows have a special protection, and have always formed them by means of the rent of money. We're completing low pensions from Euscal society for the past 10 years. What we do not share is that due to the abandonment of powers and the mismanagement of the State, Euskadi will have to respond to a problem of this magnitude via RGI, complementing pensions through this benefit. We are willing and willing to speak, to sit down, to look beyond the next election appointments, to put aside partisan interests to agree on measures that will make the public pension system sufficiently and sustainable. Let us proceed with a high eye, knowing that the agreements we reach will not have immediate effects, but that they are essential for the maintenance of the system. Let us put aside the demagogy and populist positions. And with regard to being able to supplement pensions via GIR, while a global agreement is reached, three ideas which this Parliament knows very well, but which I want to put here to remind you of. On the one hand, lower pensions are already being supplemented. It is true that it does not reach the 1,080 euros proposed in the original initiative. Two, the Basque Parliament asked the Basque Government to produce a document that would serve as the basis for amending the Income Guarantee Act. The Government submitted this document to the relevant committee and, in addition, it did so on time. And three, the Basque Government is about to bring to this House a proposal to amend the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, also in compliance with a parliamentary mandate. Therefore, by not sharing the fund, which is what you are claiming, which is to complete all pensions or the shortcomings of the existing public system through GIR, we do not share the moment and time in which this request is being raised. So we don't see any point in what the fundamental suggestions are required at the moment. Therefore, we show our strongest commitment to working quietly to find realistic answers to the important challenges we face for the maintenance of the public pension system, a work that must be carried out in the Congress of Deputies. We continue to insist that the management of the economic system of social security be transferred to Euskadi, a request based on compliance with an Organic Law, Gernika's Statute of Autonomy, adopted almost 40 years ago, and because we are also convinced – and this has been demonstrated – that in Euskadi we better manage our own competences (because it is true that health works very well, but it works better in Euskadi than in the rest of the state, Mr Damborenea). And with regard to the possibility of completing the lowest pensions through GIR, we believe that this is not the time. It cannot be intended to fill all the shortcomings of the rest of the institutions by means of income guarantee income. It is necessary to be clear what is the object of this benefit, of the RGI, and for what it was created. It was to alleviate a timely situation of vulnerability of people so that they did not fall into poverty, so that they did not stay behind. Its purpose is not, because it would be impossible, to form economic duties which other institutions do not occupy within their proper sphere, and still less to guarantee incomes when we are in the course of a change of rent. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u53	Yeah. Congressman, thank you. I, Mr Damborenea, who belongs to a party that is a fake news machine, for I don't have much to tell you either, because talking about protection system with you, seeing the results of your conception of the protection system, is quite difficult for a group like ours. Anyway, just tell him that the poor are not that shadow that is necessary for the picture to look good. I don't know if you'll understand, but, well, it doesn't matter. I would say to Mr Hernández that, with many things in mind, we do not share the country's vision and that sometimes moves us away, but at the bottom of this issue we agree. And I subscribe to many of the things that Mr Pastor has said here, what happens is that of spirits and good intentions, unfortunately, pensioners do not eat. And you accuse us many times of not bringing these things from eating, and this is one of those things from eating. And lately, in all those demonstrations that people are doing, in those plants in the face of the precariousness that we are living on the streets, what they are telling us is precisely that symbolic policies no longer serve. What do you propose, an institutional statement? A statement of intent? What is it materialized in? If you specify what that means, that commitment to the European Social Charter, we subscribe to it, but what we understand is that we need to take a step further. We have to take one more step. I'll stay with the will Mr. Pastor has shown us (I believe we can pull it that way) and what Mrs. Argrei said. We're ready to make a deal, we're ready to talk, if it's a matter of time, we'll add a table and talk. And there may also be other propositions on your side, and we are ready to examine and open the ways. But that's what you need to sit down for, you need to figure out suggestions, and you need to open those roads. And we need to agree on how these finances will come. It is said that projects must have certain funding. Well, yesterday Mrs Artolazabal presented here a measure, for which she does not have full competence, which she did not specify whether she has certain funding or not, and which is going to materialize, and which has been presented as a star measure of yesterday's full monograph. And Mr. Pastor referred to the pharmaceutical copago, to that attempt to alleviate a situation and decisions that are totally harmful to the life and quality of life and the dignity of the people, that were tried to correct, and that, despite the vetoes that came after, the ways were sought both for financing and for being able to materialize it within the framework of our competences. And, of course, such measures have led to an improvement in the quality of life of these exponential people; and the GIR itself is an example of that. With which, okay, we are in that attempt to talk, to negotiate, but we have to propose something on the table. It's no longer worth coming down here, making these fat institutions, looking at Madrid, we know what's coming from Madrid, we know that this will never be solved in a short time, if there's no change from the root in Madrid. And if we've made our way for a system of our own, if that's what we've agreed to... For here the government of Navarre was mentioned, and yesterday the government of Navarre made an agreement firmly favourable to a proper pension system. And the chances of bringing together paths have been opened. And more or less, but the chances of doing these roads together have been opened. I'll just tell you one thing. There was another exclamation on Monday's mutations, and it was very clever: "PNV, mójate! "I don't know. That was the cry. And with all the comps we have here, we have to move too. I think today's effort has brought us a little nearer that way, and Mrs. Arreg said that there may be a matter of time here, that space can be spoken, that space can open... We'll have to get specific suggestions. We have our own. Bring yours, we'll hire them. Because against what's said here, our proposal doesn't only talk about the RGI. He talks about all the possibilities that the protective system offers us. And there's different possibilities. Eta bukatzeko, Naked Snake Arantza Tapiak gay beasts beat harira esandako gauza beat. Eta berak esan zuen: "That when there is will to comply with agreements, there are budgetary tools to materialize them". The roads can be made; there can be different possibilities; they don't have to be our choices alone. We can agree. The means that can be performed may be made, because in other matters we have shown that they are capable of being made. Maybe it's a matter of time. We're ready. Even the streets, you know what they said, they won't give up and they'll stay there. And we'll make that way and we'll be on our way, but what's at stake is a lot. This is a major political problem and we have to give a country response. Herri-erronkei herri-erantzunak eman behar zaizkiolako. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u55	Well, maybe the conclusion that we could draw after listening to Mr. Damborenea is that let's stop fooling ourselves that all we need to do is a powerful communication campaign to tell people on the street that you live here as a motherfucking bitch, and that our pensioners and our pensioners live very well. That is the conclusion I draw from your intervention. I have not made any comparison with other countries, usually I don't usually do it, not for anything special. You usually refer to me the countries you understand are my reference. I don't know how you know that, because I don't know where you get my reference countries. I tell you that Sweden is not my country of reference; I do not know that system; I have never been to Sweden. But what I do know, and know a lot of people on the street, is that the idyllic image you've given here isn't real. And I do not describe that Euskadi and that the whole of Spain is hell where there is no way to live; but there are a lot of people, and among them the pensioners, who are what we are talking about today, who live badly and who have trouble reaching the end of the month, and that is undeniable, that is undeniable, and that is why there are a lot of people manifesting themselves in the streets. That's why. And that's why some groups bring proposals. I know that you have your policy, and we have a policy that, in general terms, especially on this issue and on many others, is contrary, and each of the parties will continue to defend one and the other policies, but I do not need to make those comparisons because I believe in the measures we are presenting, which have an ideological basis, and we are defending them. But there are things that seem to me, well, absolutely entrepreneurship, and among them going out here right now to say that, well, "it's that there are people, I know people who don't rate because they don't want to...". Of course, of course there will be people who don't rate because they don't want to. As Christians often say, "there must be everything in the Lord's vineyard," right? There are also people who use their positions in government positions to steal and corrupt themselves, and from that you know enough (and I don't want to divert the subject). But most of the people who do not contribute or who have not contributed to their working life are women who have not been able to contribute, not because they did not want to, who have not been able to contribute, among other things, to the patriarchal system that we have, where they were in charge of the reproductive system, which is also part of the system, and that is the reality, and among them my mother, that if she has not contributed enough, it is not because she has not given it the will. So it seems to me irresponsible to come out here and say that there are people who don't rate because they don't want to. We already know that there are people who don't rate because they don't want to. Some. And there are also people who dock banks, so what? We thought, as I said earlier, that our amendment had two issues. One is, indeed, Mr Pastor, to refer to that agreement that we have reached, that I do not think it is just a declaration of intentions and I hope it is not just a declaration of intentions. And I am going to give the can, not only to the groups present here, but also to the Basque Government, I said earlier, so that it is not just a declaration of intent, because I believe that on the basis of what was approved here we must act, not only our colleagues in the Congress of Deputies, but we too from here, because political groups and governments are also agents for political impulse from outside the Chambers. And I certainly do think that that was a good deal, I don't know if it was magnificent, because there were things he lacked that I think would be great, but I do think it was a good deal. But here today, above all, we were talking about other things, about what we can do here and we were talking about pension complements. In our amendment it says nothing about GIR. I don't know if through GIR, it doesn't seem bad to me, it can be an element, or it can be through another tool that is concretely "complements to pensions". But if we are being asked for answers on the street, it seems to us that we have to start talking about whether we are putting in place these kinds of measures that will also respond from Euskadi, with the important elements that we have of self-government, to this question. And this is not to the detriment of something that I have said before and that for us, of course personally, it is irrefutable, which is the defence of the recovery of that public pension system, which has elements of intergenerational solidarity, yes, but also of solidarity between territories, between nations and between peoples, which is very important to me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u56	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u57	Man, Mr Hernandez, that your amendment doesn't talk about GIR? With our powers to compensate for pensions, we increase 1,080, the three, to ensure adequate coverage of (...), these complements through the GIR. Of course he's talking about the RGI! Don't tell us now that we've misunderstood you! We have fully understood what you propose, which is to raise the GIR to EUR 1,080. That is what you propose. By the way (which I was going to forget and so I am going to say), our amendment (because in the end what is brought here is a reform of the GIR Act), our amendment what urges the Government to fulfil the commitment it made nine months ago, that in this first quarter, which ends next week, it would bring in the GIR reform law. That is our amendment. Which, by the way, they're not gonna do anymore, are they? And that is why the Government's amendment says that you expect them to bring it as soon as possible, because we have already witnessed another breach of this government, because you committed yourselves, and you approved in this Parliament in May, that in this first quarter this law on income guarantee income reform was to come. Mr Hernandez, when I tell you that there are people who do not contribute, which is true, what I want to say is that there are people who are not entitled or should not be entitled to a pension. That pensions are not a universal right, which is the one you contribute and depending on what you contribute, and if not you charge the system. Point. And here it is we who defend the public system, that pensions have to guarantee what they have to guarantee, not to everyone a decent pension. No, this doesn't work that way. That's what the GIR is for, not the pension system. What do you want me to say? Look, I lately, I guess it's by age, I know a lot of people who retire and celebrate it. Hey, they're celebrating! Last month I was invited three times: they celebrated their retirement. Hey, that happens to a lot of people! I know there are a lot of people who don't celebrate it and have nothing to celebrate, and those are the ones that need to be helped, and for that we have income guarantee income. The transfer. All of you have voted here on a proposal from this humble parliamentarian calling for the transfer of social security as stated in the Statute, the Constitution and the ruling of 88 of the Constitutional Court. And they've all voted no, because they called it "broken goods." I think I remember that from that rostrum it was said that that was "broken goods." Well, that's about the Statute and the Constitution... What do you want me to tell them? This "unfulfilled" comes well as a political argument, but at the time of truth it is a lie. You have not really asked for the provision contained in the Statute and the Constitution to be transferred. Mr. Pastor, the pharmaceutical copago. Hey, do you know any millionaire retirees? Do you know? Because you're the ones who "have the most to pay"... Listen, with the pharmaceutical copago, then, finally, the unemployed, who with Mr Zapatero had to pay for the medicines, with the People's Party stopped paying for the medicines. Free. That was the pharmaceutical copago that you so much get us out here: so benefit those who were the most jorobados. And, Mr. Hidalgo, in this country lives as you have said, many people. A lot of people, yeah. But I don't know why we have to be ashamed to live in one place, to have been lucky enough to be born and live in a country of the best in the world. Hey, where you live best in the world! But don't you know pensioners from all the countries coming to Spain? Why do you think they're coming? Why do you think they come, if older people are treated so badly in this country? Why are they coming? Because we have a very bad health, because we live badly, because the prices are very high? Or are they lower than in the rest of Europe? And the other day, when we were talking about the tax pressure differential, where was it? In indirect taxes, in which people are taxed, in VAT. Of course, of course you live very well! And Mrs. Kortajarena told us that she was coming from Madrid. Do you know what comes from Madrid on the subject of social security and pensions? Last year 3 billion for the Basque pensioners to collect their pension (3,000 deficits, which cost much more). And you know what's coming in 2018? Some 3.2 billion so that Basque pensioners can claim their pension this year. That's what's coming from Madrid. And Mr. Hidalgo, my mother is also a widow and a widow's pension, and as I continue, and I have said more than once, I still want her to be copper, to be copper, let us hope that the People's Party government will rule for many years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u59	Well, briefly for some clarification. Look, Mrs. Kortajarena, it's not a small difference. We bet on the public pension system that works, which we know as the "Spanish Social Security", because I don't get the rings to put the word "Spain". I know you do, don't I? I respect it, but I do not share it, because I believe that its bet is bad for the citizens of this country, because it does not guarantee sufficient solvency to guarantee decent pensions. And that's where we disagree. About the analysis of what's going on?, many points of coincidence. And you ask us for concrete commitments. Well, look, our commitment to the public pension system is unequivocal and there is a battery of measures put by the PSOE in the Congress of Deputies, which is where we have to discuss it, which establishes, black on white, what is the proposal made by the PSOE to solve the issue of the social security deficit. And here we have an unequivocal bet on the public social protection network that we have in this country, with its difficulties, its adjustments and its corrections, as you in Navarre, as you in Navarre, bearing in mind that there you neither have a guarantee network of the amount here nor have the housing supplement. And I do not put you in the face that you have no commitment in Navarre and mismanagement, for here neither. It is done, with the resources you have, everything you can and even a little more. And there is a proposal already under way to modify the GIR, which is precisely designed for this, to give it more efficiency and to reach groups where it was not previously arrived. And those are concrete commitments. And I, with Mr Hernández, do not know whether I am lucky or unfortunately, I think that fortunately, I have few differences in this debate (and I am glad that it is so; I think that is good news). And a little indication to Mr. Damborenea. You spoke in your first speech about how much pensions have risen in this country, above prices, between 2007 and today. I just want to remind you that the five years, the five years, in which the real pensions were raised were the last five years of the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, because from then on they have risen a 0.25, and that does not come to that so much fantastic increase that you said. Don't cheat on us! You're going to tell me "Zapatero froze the pensions"... Yes, the highs; and the lows rose by 30%. Look at you! Just the opposite of what is happening now, and exponential growth was just in those five years: 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. From then on, hatchet. And the hatchet did it for you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u60	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u61	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. The truth that in the end it seemed that we were in the Congress of Deputies rather than in the Basque Parliament, Mr Pastor and Mr Damborenea. And I am glad on the one hand, because, certainly, I believe that the issue of the public pension system requires that will of agreement, of talking, of dialogue and of moving forward, I believe that it will require the positions of all the political representatives represented in Congress and, of course, I believe that all of us here have the proper representation there. I'm glad we're all in favor of the public system of pensions. I think we all share the necessary means of decent pensions, and the system we have and the power system, in order to get this system started later on, that we have to take a turn to make new challenges. And when I was about the dates, Signora Kortja's, I meant that we have challenges now, but we shall not see the consequences of the measures we receive tomorrow or the day after, that we must make a short term or length. We have therefore, I think, a choice of thinking, and a good measure to agree with all, in order that the public may continue to work. We share, Mr Hernández, the importance of the agreement of 1 March, and that is why the first part of our amendment as a whole was in that direction, very similar to what was agreed on 1 March. And on the subject of pension supplements, man, what we have very clearly, and I have already said this in my first intervention, but it is obvious that it is inconsumable that all those deficiencies or that all those things that are not being done by the relevant institutions are supplied and paid through the GIR or the social system as a whole, Mrs Kortajarena. This is inconsumable and that is a toast to the sun, because it cannot be assumed. You know very well what the goal of the GIR is, what it was created for, and we believe that there is already an effort being made, it has been done since the law is in force, since 2008, and today, the departure for pension supplement is 43 million euros. I mean, when it was said that no concrete proposal, that there was no will... Man, because 43 million euros will be little, it will be... but there's a commitment, and there's a framework and there's funding. And on the subject of the pharmaceutical co-op and on the subject of the measures announced yesterday by Counsellor Artolazabal, do not worry that when the Government presents an initiative they are not toasts to the sun. They do their accounts and look at exactly how much it's going to cost, and they don't ask and ask without having any idea what the economic cost of the initiatives they want to implement. On the subject of the transfer of management of the economic system of social security, the initiative that you presented as a humble parliamentarian, as you said – for using your words, Mr Damborenea – is not the only one that has been dealt with in this Parliament, there have been many more, in which the interpretation, in our very interested and partisan opinion, of the Constitutional Court was not mentioned at all, and those are the ones that we call for to be complied with. That exactly what the Statute of Gernika says, which is an organic law passed in the Congress of Deputies, be complied with. That is what the Statute of Gernika literally says. That's what we're asking. Eta Podemeko ordezkariari. You said that people on the street are clear what the position is, etc. I believe that people on the street do understand what is going on and so, in our opinion, we understand that we must be exquisite in our pronouncements, all of us, I think we must speak responsibly and not create false expectations or things that we will not be able to fulfill. Because I'd like you to explain to me the will to get to 1,080, how you're going to do it, where you're going to get the money from, what games or what or where you're going to get it from, what other countries have set up this rent of 1,080 so that we can go to study, if there's any feasibility in any way. But I think it might be, as an idea, an idea to try to channel it there, to tell me how it can materialize. And in the meantime, everything else, as much as they say we are... I think they're mermaids' songs. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u63	So, not allowed original text. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u64	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 9; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u65	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of the Basque Socialists as a whole. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 45; counters, 28; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u66	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Punciation of the like by parlamentary groups, in order to attain the cohesion of the people, in order to obtain an inclusive and equal system of education. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed team, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u67	Good morning again. Before we begin with this subject, I want to thank the laborers, individuals, and platforms of the Gastize platform. I know you're not interested in this subject, but I'll tell you that the future is the strategic point in connection with what we've been talking about. So you will see if you lose an interesting discussion. Many and many of you here are parents, besides members of the legislature. What future do you want for your children? A rich future? They'll be able to build the life project they want and they'll have a chance to do it? (For it is one thing to will, and it is another thing to have choice). What value do you promote among your children? Do you want selfish children or soly children? Do you want claristic sons, racists, homophobic, or intelligent children who will fight for a better world, who will know how to form themselves in life, and who will know how to face different situations? Do you want what you want for your children, too? What kind of social model are you building for that? What kind of society are you fighting for? Because what we're fighting about today is the model of society we're building. That's what we have today to discuss, because the education model is associated with a social pattern. We often say "an education model," such a social model. And it's not just a fool. It's true. If the society which we are building is a social society, or if it is a social society, whether it be a society of two-speeds, or a one-speed society, where the rights will be a privilege, or a society where all the rights will be guaranteed to all the citizens, whatever the colour, the origin, economic, social, or culture of the citizens. The problem is not that of education, the problem is not that of public school, the problem of which is everybody's, the problem we have as a society. It's the mental empanada we've got. But, unfortunately, we turn the problem to school, so that this variety we cannot manage as a society is managed by schools, if it is possible to do so without very little resources and too much noise, without causing too much trouble. We're using the problem to the public school, not always, but most of the time. And then we reproach the public school that it does not resist or that it does not produce a quality project, that the teachers do not imply or that their parents do not participate in it, or that they are not democratic schools, when in the latter decades the neck of this society has been carried away by the public school, and when it has drawn its course. When public school has been the last decades of this society, and when it is a public school, it is again the 21st. when we think of the affairs of the century as well as of society, or of the precipices, as you would call them, we pull them together, and again draw them again. This we shall speak afterwards of the right of fathers' decision, to justify ourselves, and to justify ourselves, or of a pupil or family, which is different from us in the study of children. It's a lie. It's a lie when you say you want to build a school that won't leave anyone behind. Thousands of citizens, families, students, schools, teachers... Because we're leaving behind. It doesn't matter. And I will believe this phrase when I see the measures, the will, and I hope that the agreement we have made today is a starting-point. It is a lie when it is said that it struggles against poverty, that it is just when we encourage the poverty and the social race; it is a lie when it is said that multiplicity is wealth, when multiplicity is delayed, when multiplicity is generally used for the most part to put all of us to colour the photographs, or to ask for a vote. You will say that my speech today is very negative, catastrophic. You'll excuse me, but I'm sick of pretty words, I'm sick of hypocrisy, and we're late. There were some of us here watching the schools, we know what's going on, we know. We don't know if everyone knows... It was a pity that the Social Party did not approach the schools. And we learn nothing, and see all that is going on in other countries before us, we are incapable of learning or of resisting anything. and these challenges have come to stop such difficulties. They came to stay. That's the European society, that's the 21st. the society of the century, whether we like it or not, but that's what we have. But, well, you can go around the schools and you'll see that we've deserted schools, that we've deserted teachers, and yet teachers do wonders. They perform miracles by patience, by love, and dedication. But, of course, miracles have a limit too. Many and many of them are models schools, whose names I don't know what fame and what sort of names these schools are called, but they've been marked, they've been stigmatized, and you know that once you put the mark on it, it's very hard to turn it around. When we speak of the distinction or segregation of students, we immediately place the focus in migration. And you'll excuse me, but migration isn't the problem because I don't know what kind of player children are coming from or whose trainer's children... Everyone wants them in their schools. The question is, therefore, that migration is not a problem; it is a social tie; it is a problem that we have more and more complex society, and the school has no resources and no means to resist it. The difficulty is, that multiplicity is increased, that it is more complex, and that the means which it requires are not adapted to resist it, and to which it ought not to be directed. Their education is a very high-quality project. But they have bigger difficulty in developing a project. They have a greater difficulty because society and reality are more complex. And then he is not himself in comparison with the schools which must be opposed to a much lower complexity. We therefore oppose the romances and questions which we have as society, that is to say, we share them among all schools, or (it is another alternative to distinguish the means in a distinct manner, but I think both are necessary, one and the other;) or else we are at liberty. There's no need to think about it: When we've passed through school, we've been told what measures are, all personnel agree. There's an agreement at the table of high-rate education and plurality. The Basque Country is not making up precautions, we are only making agreements to push and force these measures to force them into force, to press them in order to force them. These measures are necessarily the stability of the teacher, because education projects cannot be developed otherwise; the pattern of scholarship must be modified, the schools must be provided with facility, and the resources of human resources must be increased; we need multidilinear equipment, etc., etc., etc., etc., and so on. The question is, then, that we must take steps, that politics must be made, that we must make an investment, and start the measures, leaving the focus in migration, leaving the students and families to be criminalized, taking a step forward and taking care of what is to be done by the consumers, arranging and damping the classes with their states, instead of looking at the stomachs of public schools, leaving the decision to hide them in the arms of the right, and betting on the side of the invasion, the competition between us, the struggle between us, and the education that has been built between them. 'Cause that's enough! Or we do it among all, or we don't have it! But we're late, we're too late, and society's overrun us. And what comes is worse. It's worse. Then wake up, Mrs. Uriart, wake up! And to-day we have a grip, a starting-point, and let's get the measures in force! That's what we were asked for in college. We're told to be cool, but come on. What I said: or we all do it or we don't have it. And even if the value of capitalism is competition, which leads to a purely educational market, we must not forget what is the function of education. The function of education is an equalist function, a compensationer, for the difference of choice. And if we do it wrong, the consequences we'll get from it will be hard. And what we're going to have to suffer as a society is worse, and we're going to have to invest more. What we're doing even in economic terms is not possible (such as some, in economic terms, you'll understand better). Not to mention that we are now forming worlds, parallel societies in our country, in our society: Those who don't even know what it is, who don't even know our culture, don't even speak our language. They're parallel worlds. Is that how we go on as a village? It's impossible. Even in the case of modern innovations, Madame Tapia is the possibility that she is not here today even in your eyes (Casanova will know) we would settle on another level, if we were to work on the four adjacent axes: first, inclution; then interaction; the third, the rating of divergence. What for? To get the fourth: to feel a part of this society, to perform "sensencia," the "Lido de lacentencia." And if we don't work on the first three, the fourth is no use, but we need education policy for the three of us, we need employment policy, we need housing policy, we need culture policy, not the segrant policy we're doing. Imagine what capital we would have as a country, if, as a society, the whole community were to play the same level, if all the citizens, all the citizens, should be involved in a self-organizing or independent process of activity and activity, if all of them were to be part of this society. "Sentido de la perfectencia." We're not doing that. And then we're thinking about starting a process of self-resistentization or deeper into self-portraits? I don't know how. And, Mrs. Uriart, it's up to you. Everyone here is responsible, but it's up to you. But don't look the other way, and give me what age demands. We got an agreement today. It hasn't been easy and hasn't been the first initiative, or will be the last initiative, a starting-point to unlock the theme. For the first time even a confession is given to the work of the Gastine Table, and its measures are taken notice of. The agreement to-day may be a starting-point to unlock the subject, and above all, a glance at the next lesson in order to force the measures. And it's up to you, Mrs. Uriart. Start the medaila, lead the way, but move! It's an instrument we leave in your hands. That's right, if you don't, we'll keep working, we'll keep wetting, we'll keep bringing in the initiative, because it's not the first time. And it seems to us that there is need of all of us there, because that is what we are asking of us from the schools, is what we ask of us in the family, and above all, children and children, who are in need of future citizens, and all of us. So, today there's a grip and we want you to use that handle. But if you don't share it, or if there's no will to pull it, we prefer to say to the face, that the object of the government is not a champion, but a First Step, Regiorian, &c. A two-speed village, two-speed education. Let us speak clearly for once, but above all let us quit our discourse, abandon positions, and take measures. They'll thank us very much, and it'll only be good for all of us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together represent the Podemos team. Mrs Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u69	Hello, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Today we are discussing an initiative to achieve an inclusive and egalitarian system for achieving a cohesive country, and what is beyond doubt is that from Elkarrekin we have clear that Euskadi lacks an inclusive and egalitarian education system. As we have said both in this plenary session and in the Education Committees, the Basque educational system needs profound, quiet, structural changes... And we need them now. It is not gold that shines and if this Government really aims to achieve educational excellence, much remains to be done and much has to be changed. It is true that the Basque educational system enjoys some prestige throughout the State. It is true that we are the Autonomous Community that invests most per student. It is true that we have the lowest percentage of school dropouts and that we have a high level of higher education in the population between the ages of 30 and 34. However, it is also true that we are one of the territories of Europe that most subsidises private concerted education, behind only Belgium. It is true that 48 % of the education system in Euskadi is private and 51 % public. It is true that, despite the fact that it is the Autonomous Community that invests most per pupil, despite the low percentage of GDP devoted to education, the results of evaluations not only do not improve, but also worsen. So in addition to low investment in education, we find a system that invests badly. The latest results of the diagnostic and PISA evaluations did not give a good image of Euskadi; they put the Basque educational oasis in check and it was shown, once again, that the Basque educational system continues to live in its bubble of self-complacement. When the data are analyzed carefully, the demands of the educational community are heard and the educational institutions are visited, it is easy to realize that the educational reality is quite different. Some members and "members" of the Education Commission have been able to see firsthand in the visits to the various educational centres in Gasteiz that segregation is part of the Basque educational system and that segregation does not help to move towards an inclusive and equal educational system. The reality is that this government does not bet on public school. And we are not conspirators, because if this government were to bet on public school, we wouldn't have a two-speed education system, we wouldn't continue to increase funding for educational concerts, we wouldn't have €13 million for schools that segregate by sex, we wouldn't have students studying in barracks, we wouldn't have to go out on the street to ask for more investment for the public network, greater job stability or changes in the educational model, or we wouldn't find schools where segregation by socio-economic and cultural index of families (ISEC) is a reality. And we do not say this, it is clear and perfectly reflected in the "Document of analysis and proposals to deal with school segregation in Vitoria-Gasteiz", which is the result of the Education and Diversity Work Table, in which it is requested, in the meantime, the creation of school offices managed by the Basque Government with territorial implementation and, where necessary, with local implementation; measures that guarantee the freeness of compulsory education, both in public and private institutions, aimed at students from low-income families, so that there is no payment for these families by regulated compulsory education; measures that guarantee the control of quotas for the development of supplementary and extra-curricular activities, establishing maximum amounts for them and economic aid for families with lower incomes. Control measures to be carried out by the Educational Inspectorate to prevent possible student selection practices, including the existence of payments by families not related to supplementary or extra-curricular activities, which may lead to the practical selection of such families for economic reasons by some centres. Measures for the management of living enrollment, which imply that the Education Administration contemplates all the educational institutions in the city, whether public or private-concerted, in planning the process of enrollment of newly arrived students, thus promoting an improvement in the centers with the highest rate of segregation. As well as measures to promote the stability of the classroom group, establishing a maximum per classroom in relation to re-enactment students throughout the course. Measures also for the management of access, and revision of the criteria for scheming, so that they are in favour of diversity in educational institutions and avoid, however, school segregation. And in the case of segregated centers, let the importance of implementing shock plans that progressively minimize the watchfulness be raised. Measures, all of them, which, as reflected in the initial initiative under discussion today, needed to come into force as soon as possible. In short, from Elkarrekin We believe that, in fact, we do not have an egalitarian and inclusive education system, and it is necessary to take steps and not continue to put patches or engage with ambiguous ideas. The paper can handle everything. It is time to move on to action and to genuinely commit to public school, providing it with resources and support, because we cannot allow education to reflect social inequalities. It is not by chance that the strata of the concerted network achieve positive ISEC values, while those of the public network are negative; it is not by chance that the population of foreign origin concentrates mostly on the public network, and it is also not by chance that it has more student scholarship in public centers than in private ones, because, as research and studies point out, behind the segregation is the ISEC or socio-economic and cultural index of the families. So, where do we want to go? Towards an equitable education system for all? Or towards the privatization of education? In short, it's time to start talking clearly, it's time to start really committing to public school. Let us talk about funding, let us talk about an educational model, and let us take steps, putting public school at the centre of debate and educational policies. After all, the only valid indicator to be able to say that this Government is committed to the public is reflected in the budgets, and to date we have only seen how public school cuts are present year after year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u71	Let us see, when we received this GNP, the title of which is "on achieving an inclusive, equal system for achieving a cohesive country", of course our intention was to reach agreements. Why who can refuse this? I don't think any of the people we're here. We all want a cohesive, inclusive and egalitarian country. That's out of the question. Moreover, I showed my willingness to reach agreements. Of course, in the way we achieve it, we differ. But with regard to the initial GNP, we do not agree with the Education and Diversity work. We have to say this, because we believe that part of it is an attack, not an attack, but part of it is written against concerted education. I am not saying that it is an attack (perhaps it is very strong), but it is against concerted education, the one that chooses half of the families in the Basque Country, with which we could not agree. But we did not see any problem in voting that yes to points 2 and 3. However, yesterday our group tried to reach an agreement. We were told that the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu had already reached an agreement. We asked for that amendment to see if at least apart from it we could join; we were assured that we were sent by e-mail, and the truth is that we haven't received it (maybe the mail failed, I don't say, but I haven't received it until this morning). Sure, this morning, actually, it wasn't long. However, when we get to the vote, we will ask the President to vote on points so that we can adhere to one of the points. Until this morning, I haven't received it. Therefore, as I say, our group's wish is to cooperate to this end, as I believe is the wish of all those present here. I'll tell Mrs. Ubera that I don't think she's a catastrophe or that she's presented a dark picture. I think it's been pretty descriptive. We have a very difficult picture and that, for me, is basic and I will never deny it. The problem we have is that in order to solve it we can differ in methods. For example, public school, concerted school, half and half, choice of parents. Here what we need to talk about is funding (that even at the five tables that were set up to reach that educational pact is not about funding). Then, if we have two schools with the same obligations and the sums of those obligations, comply with them, and the Basque Government comes to the conclusion that you need 7,500 euros per student (which is what you dedicate to public school and well dedicated are), what you cannot tell the concerted network that you have to fulfill the same obligations, which you have valued at 7,500 euros, with 5.300 euros. It can't be. Equal rights, equal obligations. And strict supervision by whoever has the responsibility, which is the Basque Government. That's for starters. We would put in place other resources. For example, anyone (and it's true, we're not going to talk about immigrants), anyone with needs – as the amendment said, which seemed appropriate to me – of "social etiology" must have their own backpack, their own resource backpack, because if not what we're doing is putting pressure on the teacher's hard to bear. And I want to remind you that among all professions, the profession that suffers from greater labor stress is the teacher, the teachers; it is not the doctors, it is not the police, no, no; it is the teacher. So, every creature with social etiology difficulties needs its own resource backpack. Then we have other things that we would also like to contribute, such as, for example, educational support specialists, advanced inclusion classes, teacher stability... That's right, not to get them into the mass that the burujabetza seeks, because he will understand that that is not, that is sovereignty is not exactly our purpose, but to make them citizens of the world – let's put it this way – "citizens of the world". I hope you don't join the Bureau. Why are we going to vote yes to the third and fourth points? Because, for example, when it comes to extra-curricular activities, I would like to remind you that one of the amendments that we tabled and approved by the Government was an additional amount for AMPAs, it gives me neither concerted nor public, so that they could have more facilities for such extra-curricular activities to reach all children. And what's more, we still put a separate departure for AMPAs, to do those out-of-school activities, but focused on children suffering from some kind of disability, which is another field in which we have to work. I feel that the Basque Nationalist Party did not have that will when they had already discussed the amendment with Euskal Herria Bildu a long time ago. I want to express the position of our group, which will always be there to fulfill exactly the heading of GNP, "accomplishment of an inclusive, equal system for achieving a cohesive country". That's vital. The situation is very bad, very bad; you just have to go and see it. Children who don't understand anything about what they are told and spend a year crying, as the teachers told us; stressed teachers, who I believe their only relief is to know that retirement is near... I understand that to the Department of Education the truth is that it has fallen all the possible evils, almost: buildings that need to be reformed, teacher who is about to retire, influx of people from other countries... But we have to take the bull by the horns, we have no other, and the situation is bad. Go and see. But don't think it's bad between the concertee and the public. Grossly, yes, but in the concert there are some centers with very high percentages of people who originate in other countries (usually they are from religious congregations that, by vocation, have decided to dedicate themselves to the most excluded of all the excluded). There are. But within the public, the Basque Government also differs. And I remember a visit (which will remind everyone who made it with me) to a center that had in front of another public center; two public centers that separated them a road. In one, all the weight of the extra effort had been burdened with people of foreign origin (although I agree that it is not what we have to fix, but in the difficulties) and on the sidewalk opposite there was another school, also public, which was not given the same treatment. So, funding, resource backpack, progressive inclusive classrooms (which does not mean segregating students, who can be with the rest of their class in many hours of the day but, at least to understand what they are told, whether in Basque or in Spanish, they will have to go out to that classroom a few hours of the day to learn the language), to AMPAs greater resources for these extra-curricular activities, etc. I really feel that our willingness to agree has not been taken into account, although we will ask the President to please allow the point vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u73	Well, today we have a GNP presented by Bildu on the establishment of an inclusive and equal system to join a cohesive country. The literality of the initiative is this. A non-legislative proposal that refers to integration, inclusion, equal opportunities, social cohesion... An end that is no other than to fight against segregation and exclusion. And we, the Socialist Group, can only be in favour of this struggle. A struggle for a society without segregation. We have always been committed to education, it is a principle, a cross-cutting axis of our projects. And that is why we must do, among other things, in the face of the social gap in this Community. And this situation is more notorious between the different educational networks, between the public and the concerted networks, but (Mrs Bengoechea was right) there is also this gap within the educational networks themselves. The changes that have taken place in recent years, cultural or socio-economic changes, have drawn a very diverse society in Euskadi. And in this context, education policy should be the driving force and conceived as the factor involved in the promotion of social cohesion, promoting an intervention that, on an inclusive basis, must focus on inequalities and promote equal opportunities. And these changes we face pose new challenges, in which all institutions (from the municipalities to the Basque Government) and educational agents must participate, collaborate and work together to address them. Measures should be taken to promote and assist the integration of students, with quality policies that are effective. Because the subject of segregation is a tremendously sensitive subject, which deserves a lot of work to achieve solutions. As mentioned in the various amendments, as we mentioned in our first point of the compromise amendment, the City of Vitoria has done an important job – and I can only rejoice at the work being done in this case by a socialist councilwoman of the City of Vitoria. At our first point in the amendment we urge the Basque Government to take into account and implement the most appropriate measures than on the school reality of this capital, Vitoria, they have reflected on the Board for Education and Diversity of Vitoria-Gasteiz. And in that sense, it has already been mentioned here, I have to mention the aforementioned analysis document and proposals to deal with school segregation in Vitoria. And they're going to allow me to entertain myself a little bit on the specific issue of Vitoria, because without being the panacea, because there are no panacea, I think it brings interesting solutions. It is a document containing 33 proposals, eight of which have an impact on the City Council, and it is precious to note that of those eight measures in which the City Council is involved, seven of them are contained in the Education Plan, a plan drawn up by the City Council's Department of Education for the period 2016-2022. Some of these measures are already in place, others are planned, and I will quote one of the measures as reflected in the document on school segregation. First, it is considered of particular interest that the City Council of Vitoria and the Education Administration deepen their collaboration to pursue frauds in the pattern, which lead to frauds in the process of admission of students. That is the only measure of those eight that I have cited that is not included in the plan because the Education Service is not competent in this area. Assistance was even requested from the Basque Government to the City Council to control the frauds in the pattern. Two, it is of particular importance that the Basque Government study the distribution of pupils in the centres in each of the areas of the school map (not in a single area, each of the areas of the school map), in order to obtain a real diagnosis of the schooling of pupils, which allows for the implementation of actions by both the Basque Government and the City Council for the promotion of interculturality in all the educational centres and in the different areas. And this promotion of interculturality is reflected in the program Vitoria-Gasteiz Ciudad Educadora, which covers 225 actions aimed at the centers of the city. Thirdly, it is of great interest to launch educational innovation projects on compensation in centres with greater segregation both by the Government and by the City Council (the two entities appear permanently) in order to attract these centres to the higher indigenous and ISEC students. It also includes the launch of a pilot experience in schools with needs for action in the field of compensation, which took place between November 16 and March 17, with the aim of developing a model of educational intervention with pupils influencing linguistic competence, improving the management of AMPAs and extra-curriculars and encouraging the organization of families in the life of the centre, collaborating with the teams of teaching centres (an experience, by the way, which has been highly valued by educational agents), together with the development of a training course within the summer courses of the UPV. Another measure: it is considered important that the City Council of Vitoria promote the encounter and cooperation and communication between the AMPAs of different types of schools, encouraging joint activities of all kinds (and at this time there is even a call for subsidies to the AMPAs for the development of holiday and extra-school activities among other activities). It also establishes the interest that the City Council of Vitoria establish a municipal system of extra-curricular activities by zones, with public prices and with participation of the students of all the centers of the area that need it, without this action affecting the extra-curricular activities that are already organized by the AMPA. A pilot experience on the out-of-school and area plan is planned, in line with the amendment we are submitting, in which we urge the Government to work with local authorities to promote family formation. It is also important to establish an aid system to ensure the participation of pupils from low-income families in extra-curricular and complementary activities organised by the centre, the AMPA or the City Council itself. And measures that the education service is carrying out within that program of Vitoria-Gasteiz City Educator. It should also be noted that the City Council, educational centres and AMPAs must offer training to families with reference to the school or the environment in which it is located, guaranteeing access to and participation of families in situations of socio-economic vulnerability. Schools for parents, free educational institutions and a comprehensive family training programme. In relation to early childhood education, it is considered necessary for children's schools, both municipal and Haurreskolak Consortium schools, to enable free access for children from economically vulnerable families. I put it as an example that it is possible to make this effort and start putting it into practice in cities, in provincial capitals, with pilot experiences that can then be generalized to fight segregation. And besides the municipal commitment, I think there's been a very high involvement. The agreement group has been first convened, they have been allowed to work without political interference, the conclusions they asked for have been taken up and launched, to the extent possible, and the Basque Government has worked on its measures, which is not simple, in each of the eight (seven are education). You can do a lot of things, you need political will. And in all the work that is being carried out, in this case in the City of Vitoria, there is a clear commitment from the socialists, who have taken us to the Department of Education, because there are actions of all kinds, such as the programme of solidarity management of textbooks, to adjust the payment of scholarships before starting the course so that families do not have to face an expense that cannot be allowed, and to advance in a more inclusive and equitable society through the educational system. These measures are beginning to make a reality. In addition, these eight actions reflect the five points that we have agreed on in the transactional amendment of the PNV, Socialist Party and Euskal Herria Bildu, which we will vote in favour. But I do want to make it clear that this amendment is not the solution to the problem of social cohesion and segregation, but I do think it opens up a long way for us all to go, because we are in the right direction. But here we start to do it and we have to keep moving to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u74	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u75	Thank you, Chief. Chief department, congressmen, good noon. "Esscal society is changing forever, and we live in a society which is more and more numerous. Moreover, this variety has come to remain among us. We have a variety of wholes, of other things, of the ethnic, of culture, of linguistic, of socienomical, of the genus. This multiplicity in society has reached all areas; the personal area, the field of work, the health system, the well-being system, and, it is logical, it has also reached the educational system. The plurality is indirect and general, but it is true that it has arrived at certain definite places and places with greater intensity than elsewhere. Undoubtedly, the nicest reception of students is of importance in local educational qualities, but, besides these politics, there are some other factors that are of great importance, and which condition these realities. Among these, there are, among them, employment options, town-houses, and town-houses, housing policy, the sense of being a member of a community, of a family's origin, and so on. Many have nothing directly to do with education, but it is impossible to doubt that they are affected by more than one factor in the education system. I say, "Obviously," not good, nor bad. They produce, as well as possible, many realities to be managed, always in the centre of the system and service. Seeing the conditions of society and school are continually changing, it is indispensable to anticipate, study, and study the answers to the actual conditions of analysis. I'd like to remind you that after school, more than 3,000 students arrive at euscal education system, origin, language, education, education, and many examples. This is why the education system is in a constant adaptation process, in order to give a proper answer to that inconstant reality, and to guarantee the educational taste of all students. To manage this, which is so variable, as well as possible, the Board of Education has made several proposals in order to encourage an inclusive school in the last decades, and give a proper treatment of multiplicity. Like the 2003-2007 program or the 2012-2010 School Inclusive Plan. It's about last years, among other things, it's a great deal of manual projects, a model of education and pedagogy, and the Euscal Education Improvement Plan. Like all changes or adaptations made in education, the measures taken will require a medium or length to evaluate whether they have been adequate or not. Besides, let us not forget that the interventions to be done in education must be read and understood together with those which are done in other institutions and societies, within a more extensive sphere of activity. At the first point of today, when we were talking about the tax collector, Mrs. Ubera said that everything can't be left behind on the back of the school. It was all four hours ago that Mrs. Ubera forgot her point of view after four hours ago. The Board of Education has made a number of reflections, and has already published precise proposals. On the one hand, 2016-20 School Inclusive and Culture Art Field giving students any kind of attention to Education. I want to talk about the plan. This plan is occupied by a wide and integrated view around two principal principles. First, the right to education. The basic education of all is the necessary means of supporting the conditions without making any distinction. And second, that education has rights. Hence the object of the plan is to assist the inclution of the students who have just been introduced into our system, and of families, and to participate in society, always in the frame of an incluency and cultured school. To do this, the Normative enterprises, the inspection of organizations, will be encouraged to assist those in the schools, to introduce them more easily into the education system, and to continue in the same system. So there are several employment fields relating to rules, information, and communication camps: Rules, criteria, protocols, documentation, orientation, organization coordination, census control. There are at this moment several measures taken in regard to these matters, and many of them agree that they are among the demands of the party which has been mentioned so often. As far as planning area is concerned, school map, education offers, team features... they must be cultivated and examined. As far as it is concerned with reorganizing education, school projects, advice, reception plans, plans for personal intervention, research, families themselves... But, apart from the plan, he has put on the table the precise propositions relating to human resources in dispute on the scripting table. Public work offers to download as much as possible (at least 5,000 jobs in this law); while the stability of the intermediates is completed; the substitutions from the first day in Child Education, the First Education, and the expected substitutions; the double tutorials in groups where there are many students who need a specific educational aid in education. but there are many who are on the table. Several considerations and proposals have been received in the document called the Determination of the Determination of different OSS, employed on the participation of different agents, and I will now bring forth certain principles of that part: The axis of several schools, for the cohesion of society; the integible and flexible intervention patterns of education which are to be supported by the various students, and by their own special qualities; that the students may enter and be admitted to the school in order to ensure the mechanism, the incommunicable and more consistent educational education, and that they may excite a greater number of lives and social cohesion; and lastly, which is essential to promote the mutual solidarity of families and education-makers. All these appear to us indispensable, and therefore we reflected on the whole correction we presented. We've worked and succeeded in collecting EH, the Basque Socialists, and the Eucalists of the Euncists (it's a matter of course that other teams have not joined). We believe it to be an important and valuable middle-class one, the size of the challenge we have in hand, and, considering its importance, I believe that we have acted with generosity and in a manner constructed. He wants two main goals. On the one hand, you get to go to school on education systems and get more balanced and more explosive, even in different networks and in each network. And, on the other hand, it may be foreseen that the diversity should give fresh answers to the schools which are living and managing with great intensity. In the first place, I'm asking you to come to my senses about the historical reality of Vitoria-Gastician reality, to consider the various reflections and proposals made by others, and to start the most convenient. At the second point, we've received some accounts: In order to apply criteria for increasing stability and social excitement in schools, considering the variety, to integrate students into different education networks and each grid in a balanced manner, to prevent the combination of municipals from the census rate (the cases of many families who have tried to cheat are detected). In the third place, we ask you to do a great deal of work in colleges that handle a great deal of learning, the number of students in the class, and the characteristics of those students, to increase specific human resources, including the means of treating students with double tutelages and social ethiology. On the fourth floor, we're asking you to sing to me, with local institutions, the kind of partnership that is intended to increase educational activities. We believe that it is time to put aside sterile discussions, to put aside obsessions, and to work together, that we should all put all our efforts in it, and that it is an important step to-day. Mrs Bengoechea seems to be very sorry that she did not sign the compromise amendment. I don't know if you checked your email between 16:14 minutes, five minutes after what you asked for, and this morning. That's all you'll know. I only know that there I was waiting for the compromise proposal that we were working on by the three groups. And with regard to the content of the transaction, our group is not going to object to voting for points (we do not usually do so, unlike others), but be clear, as we advanced yesterday, that what was picked up in this transaction clashed frontally with a proposal made by your parliamentary group in this House, calling for a single school area for Vitoria-Gasteiz, transferring an urgency from Mrs Comerón to the plenary of the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz, which you are trying to replicate in this House, and that the content of the transaction that we signed today and we are going to approve clash frontally with what you propose, which I hope when it is debated receives a sound not from this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u76	Thank you, Mrs. News. Passing on the day of the answers, representative of the EH Collectors. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u77	All right, Mrs. Wide, it'll take a very important step when the measures are actually introduced in force. That's what they were screaming for from college. Today, it's a big deal of arrangement, but it'll really be a step and a significant step when the action takes place. For there is no question of co-operation here, no business of association in those schools, the question is that the students of those schools cannot properly answer their attentions and their wants to give them their education. That's the problem. And the problem is that these schools are not reflected into the multiplicity in society. Our priority is to face segregation, yes. And when we're facing the segregation, or when we plan the measurements, because I don't know why we're having to put focus between the networks, we need all networks, more than the nets, we need all schools. And we said, or we all imply, or we're off, Mrs. Bengochea. And your team, at the Gasteize Town Hall, has secured education and the Society's table, and has protected the motion of the Gastize Platize platform, yes. Then we'd like to encourage you to protect the first point. And we'd like to encourage you especially to withdraw the proposition you've made for reflection, because you've seen what reality there is, and you agree with the measures we've discussed here today. Convince your team to actually face the situation and not lead you to the worse. Because here it is everyone's responsibility, so we must all do it. It's not just education. I don't know, Mrs. Overhill, if you've followed my interference carefully (I told you carefully to follow my interference). I have already observed that the problem is not only public school, but that the problem is not only that of education, that the competition between networks is not the problem, I have said, besides education, the housing policy, the culture policy, the employment policy... That all are necessary. Because what's at last playing is a lot. And besides the measures of the present day, we have two other propositions assigned to the stability of the teachers, and also to change the standard of their management. And we think that progress can be advanced, but it's necessary because we're late. And in addition to accepting (and I am grateful to Mr. Pastor, who has made the stew of the same measures as are supported in the Gastheic scale; it is the first time that the groups which support the Government, at least in the legislature, admit and acknowledge it to be the work done to the table of Gastheliize), and to pass over, whether now we are able to say these measures and governments (and other agents) in order to put them in force. Unfortunately, the question of segregation is not only Gastian, it is not Gaste sclusive, it is in all countries. And it seems to us that there must be a profound labour in the place where it is to be done in various places and countries, if we wish to obtain that end which we all share. I don't know if we'll figure it out or not. We're just trying to give this house a lift and to wake the government up and react. And what we've seen... I won't deny that the government, Mrs. Welnger, has got no moderation in it, but they told us what limit they have in schools. We've also been told what a million hands have given. We've been told how much more they needed. Then we have to accept it, and we have to improve it, and we have to put the necessary resources into their hands. And we are conscious, we are all conscious of the distrusts, the inertias... And it is also natural that we should have seen more in the legislative, and the conduct and incendiaries of the Government this time, are we not? But it is clear: or we exceed these distrusts, or else we will do nothing of them. And especially for these students, for those children, for their families, and for their colleges, because they are not the least interested in their enterprises, and in their manner of accepting them; these are the measures, the means, and the investments. Yes, and we'll try to get wet on it, we'll try to get away from the recipe of speech, from mere positions... For here, beyond position, we need the exact measures and resources we need here, but now. And to finish, I'd like to make some notes. One, unfortunately, is not just a Gastian problem. Two, with a law, it doesn't solve the problem with an ILP, it takes measures and investments, and it won't be enough for all the measures we're bringing here. So we have to keep working hard on this thing. In addition to education, board policy, employment policy, housing policy, inclusion policy, culture policy... We need them. One more warning: the problem is not immigration; the problem is poverty, mobileness, it is social, it is clasism, etc. The problem is not the public school, the problem is not the different networks of education, so watch out for speech. We all have a lot to learn. We have to do it among all of us...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u78	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u79	Because if we don't do it among all, we're off. And please, no symbolically, no more measures.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together, Poedemus. Mrs Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u81	Thank you. Well, read the compromise, our group is going to abstain because we believe that the initiative mixes many aspects, that while we believe they are related, we also believe that they deserve to be discussed in depth and on their own. We thank Mrs Ubera for her effort, but the text seems to us insufficient, as she still does not put the public school in the centre and lacks concreteness. The first point, we believe, does not take into account the real urgency of implementing the proposals and emergency measures contained in the document drawn up by the Education and Diversity Bureau, and from Elkarrekin. We believe that it is urgent to activate these measures and it is not enough to accept them and implement those that are considered most appropriate. Suitable, by whom? The second point of the proposed transaction concerns the application of new schooling criteria, taking into account the diversity of pupils, but at the same time the proposer group decides to withdraw the point relating to the amendment of Decree 1/2018 of 9 January of enrollment. So, do we want to apply new criteria? Do we want to discuss the decree again? What do we want? In the third point, the Government is urged to increase the specific resources of centres managing complex diversity. And our doubt is which centers we're referring to. According to the data we have highlighted in our previous intervention, the foreign student, the student receiving the most scholarships, the student with the lowest ISEC families is on the public network. If all parliamentary groups really mean "centres that manage a complex diversity" to public network centres, why don't we make this clear? Why do we not clearly leave in writing the need to give more resources to public network centres? Only public school ensures a cohesive country. The fourth point, we agreed, and while we believe that out-of-school women also deserve their own space for debate, we believe in the need for collaboration between the local institutions and the Basque Government, although we believe that what this Government has to commit to is not only to collaborate with the institutions, but that what the Government has to do is to support the AMPA with more resources, who are the ones who work most voluntarily in order to offer the student healthy leisure practices. In short, as long as we see real support for public school, we will certainly support it, but at the moment we do not see it clearly, because we want a Basque education system, an inclusive and equal education system, but we also want it to be equitable and this offers only a public and quality school. No more, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Basque Popular. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u83	Well, I'm not going to read you a document that, apart from the fact that we could all have read it somewhere else, it's not even from this institution, nor does it belong to this institution. But I do want to make some comments about things that have been said here. Let's see, we've been told there's been plans, there's been proposals, there's been no idea what... All the ones on the table... Well, maybe it's time for them to step out of the table and get into the schools, because, of course, plans and plans and plans... And I say the same thing I said when I asked the counselor a question: results. It's all right with plans, it's all right with mahai heurean donden propusemenak. Results are what we need. Because Mrs Macazaga in her first speech has been very generous and has spoken that education has prestige and such. See, Mrs Macazaga, I don't know why it will be, but I do want to tell you that in the state school report they make the ISEC comparison to ISEC, and if we compare the PISA results to the equality of the ISEC, that is, if we take those who earn up to 10,000 euros and the parents have no studies until those who earn more than 100,000 euros and the parents are doctors, the Basque Country always lasts. And it's to cry, it's to cry. That's one thing we have to amend. But I will quickly review the compromise amendment. We are going to vote no to the first point, because it told them that we understood that there was a strongly critical position with the schools agreed. We are going to vote on the second point, because that is precisely why, because the second point is against our position that Vitoria is a single area. Because, let's see, let's be honest, right now it's very weird that a person doesn't get the first choice, because we have less and less... I don't know, I've looked at the figures and okay, there's a percentage that doesn't get its first choice... [[Berber]] Can you get the first option? So that's what I'm telling you, that then when we score we don't need that much score anymore, exactly, what I'm telling you, counselor, because people are going to get 94% of the time the school they choose in the first choice. So, that's why I'm saying that making zones makes much more sense when people can't get into the school they want, and to decide who gets in or doesn't have to go to a baremation. That need is practically disappearing, because we have fewer and fewer children, and we have fewer and fewer children. So that's why we're going to vote no to the second. But to the third, of course we will vote yes. On all the resources that are needed in centers that have these difficulties, how are we going to vote if not? Of course we're going to vote that yes. And the fourth, when talking about different reasons or extra-curricular activities, how are we going to vote if we have made an amendment precisely so that these extra-curricular activities can reach more children through AMPAs and have even made another amendment to reach children with disabilities? Of course we are going to vote yes to point four. And point five, we are going to abstain. And you know why? Because we believe that it is very important for parents to enter the school dynamic, of course. We also want to tell you that virtually all municipalities of a certain size have this type of offer. Gurasoekin... Each one has its name, but they have this kind of offer. But it seems to us that it is not concrete, because what we asked for... We're talking about inclusion. Inclusion supposes to be able to accommodate many different cultural views, but there is a minimum that we cannot break. And the people who are here, who know the problem, know that there is a cultural minimum that is harming the citizens of the CAPV right now, which is the cultural differences that exist in the treatment of men and women. We know that there are many schoolgirls who at the moment are said not to have to go to extra-curricular activities, their future is said not to be education. Moreover, one day we will talk about this, but let us know that there are 18,000 girls in the Spanish State, in Spain, who are threatened with mutilation, girls who are taken to other countries for early forced marriages... So this seems so light, so "what is already being done", and really, what human rights are are not negotiable, they are not culturally negotiable. And that's where we'd have to focus, because there's complaints in this direction and we'll have to put our batteries on. Anyway, that's it. One and two, no; three and four, yes; five, abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Pastor mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u85	Thank you, Chief. Mrs. Uber, I always listen to you closely, but much more than you think. Therefore I repeat, that difference, this agreement is important, that it is the builder, and that we have been able to act with open hands. What we can't understand is that Podemos didn't sign this medium. I think it's the Podemos' attitude of prejugation...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u86	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u87	...that he shows the attitude of prejugation in this matter. The measurements, the proposals... Mrs. Ubera said, the question is not who proposes them, but what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, and what they are going to have.... Well, I agree, that's why I think you're gonna have to admit that, right now, the funk is going a lot more and more. The other is to give attention to the immigrants on the second plan, and to obtain a fundamental agreement on these grounds, in the document of the Foundation, where several of them are received by the operators. And it was Mrs. Macazaga's concern which schools are going to get. Schools that need them. We can measure this need of education, we can perform an index, considering the various criteria, which is contained in the document of the principles, and from that we would be capable. For it is said, when we speak of ratios, that the ratio must be generally lowered. It's not a ratio, you know it better than it is. In the colleges we visited all the groups that were under the maximum ratio of ratios. In some cases very, very low. The most important thing is to look at the features of the group beyond the number of students, the features of the students, and their circumstances. Instead of descending the rations in a general and indiscreet manner, we are more likely to give extra support to the groups of students who need it, for the purpose of education which school ought to have. By the way we propose, the supplementary professors are assigned to those groups with greater need of de facto. And you said, "They're suggestions, but they're supposed to jump from the table to the class." There is a forum to jump from table to class, which is called the Sectorial Table, and there are two sides: Those you call the Education Administration and the Social Officers. "La social part," which we hear here and again, so that "la social part" must also act with responsibility, if you think it interesting to negotiate those measures which are placed on the table. And Mrs. Bengochea is going to vote on the spot. It's all right to agree with some things, I think it's logical that you agree with the outside classes, but I repeat that what you get here has nothing to do with setting up a single field of Gastés. It has nothing to do with it, one proposition and the other collide directly. And you say there's no problem at all, it's true that today, at the first opportunity of 94% of the students, he gets the square, but I don't even want to think what would happen to the Gaste if we'd put on a single school zone. And you will tell us what criteria are to be used for calming, if we place thousands of children in a single area, in the interests of the individual faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u88	Thank you, Mrs. News. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote for the middle-direction signed by the EH, the Basque Socialists and the Eubertarians. I understand you wanted a spot, there's no problem. We shall therefore vote first and second points, and then three and four separate, and the fifth. We're going to vote a middle-direction and two points. We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters of 53; rivals 7; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u89	So one and two points have been accepted. Next we vote for three and four points. We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters of 60; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u90	So three and four points have also been accepted. And finally, we vote for the fifth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters of 53; the contrary, 0; white, 0,0; abstaining, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u91	So the fifth point is also accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group, concerning the naming of the magistrate María Elósegui for the Court of Human Rights in Europe. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Uria, representing the Podemos group together, has the word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u92	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, colleagues, parliamentary companions. Very brief, because I have undertaken to be very brief because it is the last point. It's a good day to end soon. It could be summarized that there is a woman, judge, from Donostia, who has taken the place in the European Court of Human Rights and we do not like it because it seems to us that it is a failure for civil rights, and I could sit down. But I'm going to dedicate three more minutes. In January 2018 the Assembly of the Council of Europe elected as a member of the European Court of Human Rights the professor of Philosophy of Law at the University of Zaragoza, María Elósegui Itxaso. No problem, for now (not even a candidate for the PP, Mr Pérez Cobos, who was the president of the Constitutional Court). Some problems began to emerge in the public light: the professional and academic career of the judge; her ideas, her social practice. And the truth is that it's prolific, it's been very easy to find your opinions on multiple topics, since you've written more than 17 books and more than 100 articles. There we found some problems. He has addressed on multiple occasions, in several interviews and, in particular, in his book, "Ten Gender Issues. Men and Women to Reproductive and Productive Rights", edited in 2002, the theme of the sexual identity of people. Cultural identities, diversity of behaviour, the need for minority inclusion. It is very fine using terms this judge, always with abundant references to law, philosophy and anthropology itself as true scientific bodies. We are again in a scenario of confusion, where ideology, convictions and science are mixed; where the deepest ideas and perceptions of your culture are confused with scientific criteria in the analysis of human behavior, in the analysis and in the practice of civil rights. Mrs Elósegui, Donostiara, with a long academic life, active member of Opus Dei and propagandist in the media of her ideas, has left us some of her diaphanous ideas, I will practically say exactly what she thinks. "Everyone who can have the sexual identity he freely chooses, but the person who has a sexual orientation, a gender as a social construction of sex, other than his biological sex can have pathologies; he can develop an unhealthy and misadjusted life, and it is very convenient that it be treated psychologically, psychiatricly. He may be gay, but that's pathological." The second idea is that homosexual people can live together, together... –no problem, full freedom – but that is not a linear marriage and is therefore not subject to civil rights. The third idea is "they and transsexuals must be treated psychiatricly or psychologically to adapt to their socially, freely chosen gender." Everyone can be what they think is convenient, but irreversible therapies... He doesn't agree. For example, Osakidetza accepts, as you know, as you know, the subject of surgical sex change as a right. She disagrees, considers that therapies like psychiatrics, behaviorals are more effective. These positions have caused outrage, both in the Basque and the Spanish and European spheres, of women's groups and feminist groups, of LGBTI groups, of a large part of the scientific community, of not a few active judges, and of a large number of MEPs, who have publicly demanded their revocation and have criticized the methodology for proposing persons relevant to such important positions. She is the representative of Spain, the only woman of the 46 members of the European Court of Human Rights. Elkarrekin Podemos and most of the political forces in the Basque Parliament want to join this wave of indignation and echo the criticisms of social groups. We criticize the procedure of his appointment, we demand the withdrawal of opinions delivered that affect civil rights and his revocation of the assigned post. Freedom does not produce pathologies; it is repression that produces pathologies. It is precisely the repression of the construction of a freely successful social and sexual life that produces pathologies, which produces unhealthy life, which causes illness and disorders that are sometimes difficult to deal with. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted at the United Nations on 10 December 48. More than 50 years have passed and have inspired processes of coexistence and constitutional and other norms, in many countries, to organize human coexistence (the horror of the First World War and the genocides of the Second gave rise to these principles). The Declaration of the European Union Convention on Human Rights is the daughter of that declaration, and the European Court of Human Rights is the son of that declaration. It is about guaranteeing human rights; civil rights; social rights as a framework for coexistence between people, peoples and communities around the world, and between us as well. This is the important thing. We were particularly concerned by the violation of article 14 of the Convention on Human Rights of the European Union: "The enjoyment of the rights and freedoms recognized in this Convention must be ensured without distinction of any kind, especially on grounds of sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other views, national or social origin, belonging to a national minority, fortune, birth or any other situation". It is a question of assessing and monitoring whether personal convictions, whether beliefs, whether the prejudices of the new member of the European Court of Human Rights are independent or may have independence necessary for legal action. Here's the thing. We think it is complicated, and that matters such as "inclusive citizenship" or "inclusion of the other" (abounding in the literature of Judge Maria Elósegui) cannot be words that adorn curricula, that adorn lectures, that adorn interviews. They are ideas of silence, they are profound ideas that require in certain relevant positions public behaviors of service and unequivocal defense of civil rights. Finally, I would like to add two other points which have drawn our attention in a worrying way. One is the alleged falsification of his curriculum by publicly proposing his active participation in the drafting of the Law on Effective Equality between Men and Women, Organic Law 3/2007, of 22 March, which was drafted at the time of José Luis Zapatero. He seems to have been confused, he seems to have lied about his role as an external contractor. One thing is the external contract she had and another is the drafting of the rule. She has had to be the director of the law herself, Mrs Soledad Murillo, who has not certified her participation in the drafting of the law. This subject seems to us to be a serious one, a subject that requires public explanations. To falsify her abundant resume to improve her position of access to the post of member of the European Court of Human Rights is not balad in the analysis of Mrs Elosegui's morale. And finally, its repeated position against the so-called "after-day pill" as a contraceptive method of free use, against legal abortion, claiming that it produces more deaths than its clandestine practice, makes us not trust Judge Elosegui. We do not believe that he has an unequivocal position in defence of the civil rights of all people. We share the indignation of women's collectives, feminist collectives, LGBTI collectives. And finally, it seems to us a profound nonsense to put in relevant positions people of this profile with the times that run. What's the weather like? For times when it suits us all and all to strengthen social rights; times when the culture of strengthening and the extension of civil rights for all and for all, to improve above all the freedom and social cohesion of our communities, are central elements of the future; it is the processes of inclusion and coexistence that we hope our children have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u94	Just thank all the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the People's Party, because we have in a microsecond come to an agreement on retraction, revocation and protest over this appointment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u95	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u96	We are finalizing today's plenary by debating a non-legislative proposal which, at the request of the Podemos Group, will replicate in this rostrum the debates that have already taken place in other areas, because this has its origin in the European Parliament. And we will discuss on the occasion of the appointment of Judge Maria Elósegui as a member of the European Court of Human Rights. As Mr Uria said very well, we could make a summary of three seconds and withdraw, but since we have, as I have done, the effort to highlight the reasons why we disagree with this appointment, we will surely repeat all the same arguments. The position of the Socialist Group is well known and, therefore, will not surprise anyone the position that we are going to defend from this rostrum today. The Basque Socialists are, by definition, internationalists and, by vocation, deeply Europeanists, and we understand Europe as an area of citizenship that guarantees rights and integrates pluralities. That is why we are ashamed that, in what must be the spearhead of safeguarding these rights, there is anyone who denies the diversity and freedom of citizens to feel as they please; that is why we are ashamed that the Government of Spain wants us to represent everyone and everyone who responds to a limited and retrograde view of people's rights. There are those who are working from the most diverse areas to boost the European project, a project which, with all its shortcomings and all the corrections that need to be made, must be the solution for socialism. And it must be as a guarantor of the values of freedom, diversity, peaceful and democratic coexistence. And there is no freedom, no diversity, no peaceful and democratic coexistence, if those who make decisions disregard the most basic rights of citizens. But there will be less if, moreover, in the last refuge that people can find to assert their rights, that is, in the European Court of Human Rights, they encounter those who believe that homosexuality is a pathology, those who believe that transsexuals should be subjected to therapy and those who, moreover, falsify their curriculum by wearing it with a non-existent commitment to women's rights, with a single desire that is to respond to their personal ambition and, of course, not to an ambition of social justice. A reality with which anyone who wishes to seek protection in this court can now be found since Mrs Elósegui was appointed on a proposal from the People's Party Government. She is a judge who accumulates homophobic, unacceptable statements, both in articles and in interviews and in books she has published, and who has very well reported Mr. Uria. It is worrying that someone who believes that any attempt to present a homosexual couple as the equivalent of a happy marriage is merely an impossible claim, or someone who believes that homosexuality is a suffering experience, or that being transsexual is a tragedy, a disease, is designated to be part of the highest European Court of Human Rights, which must be established as a guarantee of freedom and equality for all. Of course, this Parliament, the Basque Parliament, has an unequivocal commitment to the sexual freedom and equality of women. That is why it is important, I believe, that we ratify this compromise today, expressing our express rejection of the statements of public officials, against these principles. But it is also important that we make it clear that those who have such an exclusive vision can take up positions in which the rights of those whose equality and freedom they despise must be guaranteed. Because the Court of Human Rights, let us not forget, that although it is based in another country, it is the last instance envisaged by our rule of law to preserve individual rights, civil rights. It is the place to which one can turn when one believes that even the Constitutional has not protected him, and his doctrine, his judgments are obligatory in our country, we like them more or we like me, they are incorporated into our jurisprudence. And of course, the socialists, as it cannot be otherwise, we assume so. Whether this court upholds a Party Law that obliges us all to act in accordance with the Constitution and the law, expressly rejecting the use of violent methods to exercise politics; whether the court repeals a legal doctrine established in Spain in relation to the accumulation of sentences by prisoners convicted of serious crimes, even if this may lead to the prompt release of those who have not acknowledged the damage caused; or whether the Kingdom of Spain is condemned for ensuring effective judicial protection of those who have reported ill-treatment or torture. That is the space that anyone can go to, and we know that now in that space there is a judge who has publicly expressed that all those people who have made a decision about their sex life other than that they would have taken or have taken go against biology and are to be treated as sick. And there is no need to hide in euphemisms; this can simply be called "homophobia" and "pure transphobia". And homophobia and transphobia are two attitudes that go against human rights and against the Europe that we have built and that we want to strengthen. And since they are against human rights, the truth is that this person cannot be a guarantor of human rights. That is why we show again today in the Basque Parliament, as we have done in the European Parliament, our absolute rejection of this appointment, we express our explicit support for the initiative that has been launched in the European Parliament by the delegation of the Socialist Party, and which has been supported by the MEPs also of the Liberal Democratic Group, the European Unitarian Left and the Greens, to request the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights to ask the judge for a public retraction of their statements and, if this does not occur, to revoke their appointment as judge of the Court. There is also, as the proposer has said very well, an additional circumstance to add to the already lame choice of this woman as a member of this court, and it is related to the falsification of the curriculum she submitted for the assessment of her candidacy. It attributed, as you very well said, Mr Uria, the preparation of the preliminary draft of the Organic Law on Equality between Men and Women of 2007, something that has been proven to be totally false, and that Elósegui herself, in a gross attempt to justify, has stated in a newspaper that it is contained in her résumé "a way of summarizing in English and French a phrase that is very long, with no desire for anything". Man, I don't think this has any morality or ethics, and in my house, and with no desire for anything else, we would say it in a very synthetic way in Spanish and Basque, that is: "It has no shame. Ez dakkazu lotsarik." For this reason, in the last request we make in the compromise amendment (which is true that we have had an easy time in being able to agree and that is to thank the proposing group), we are going to ask the central government from this Parliament, that for the selection of candidates to be part of this court, who must enjoy – and let us not forget that this is what the law regulating their selection says – of the highest moral consideration – and we believe that Mrs Elósegui does not have that high moral consideration – it is based exclusively on criteria of independence, merit, transparency and impartiality. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by ratifying our full commitment because the European institutions, also in their judicial bodies, reflect the citizens' union to which we aspire, based, as has been said, on full gender equality and on non-discrimination on the grounds of sex, sexual orientation or any other reason. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u98	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good noon to all. Very little to add to what the representatives of the groups who have spoken before me have said. So, seriously, I'll be brief this time. At the beginning of the year, the naming of María Elósegui, the magistrate of the European Court of Human Rights, created a living controversy. The magistrate, it seems, has made statements against women and the LTBIQ in various conversations and occupations. We say 'think', for he says that he did not make these statements, or at least that they are derived from the context. These conversations and publications are in everyone's hands (Mr. Water himself has read several paragraphs from them in this place today), each of them can interpret. Elósegui, without doubting the form and curriculum of the magistrate in this case of doubt; but without doubting the principle of all others, the profiles of the persons who offer themselves to a magistrate of this court must be strictly guided from the principles of merit, transparency, and impartiality; and this care, in order to fill up the whole excisence of that post. Affirmations such as that "homosexuals will develop different pathologies" or that "psychological and psychiatric therapies must be applied to transgender people" are, in our view, unacceptable in a professional called to hold a position at the European Court of Human Rights. These claims do not comply with the guarantee that the profile of the persons belonging to the said institution must meet the requirements of such high responsibility, as Mrs Castelo said. We cannot accept such expressions as these, nor amongst those who form the jurisdiction of the legislative, nor amongst those who form public institutions, nor among the individuals. They are absolutely unacceptable, ethically and socially, and, of course, they are contrary to all the principles and principles of human rights. Our team wants to take advantage of this opportunity to proclaim his commitment to actual equality. And we express our will in all these areas that we will continue to guarantee this commitment. The Basque Nationalist group considers it very worrying to put at the head of an institution that is supposed to defend and protect human rights a person whose manifestations are a clear violation of the principles that make up those same rights. Demonstrations that violate women's rights, against real and effective equality between men and women, or against the rights of homosexual and transgender persons. By an initiative set forth by the 70 members of the Parliament of Europe (which was addressed to the Parlamentary Assembly of the European Council, and to the Court of Human Rights), it was requested that the Elósegui should address his own expressions. The representative of our party is one of those who protected this initiative in the House of Brussels. As I said, in relation to the request made by more than 70 MEPs requesting the Court to withdraw the candidature of Judge Elóségui if she does not retract her homophobic, unacceptable and alarming manifestations, PNV's representative in the European Parliament, Izaskun Bilbao, signed this letter, and our group in today's debate does nothing more than act accordingly. It is important that both European authorities and citizens are aware of the ethical and moral position contrary to the right of a person to perform his or her work in an institution whose main task is to ensure precisely the protection of the rights of all persons and to combat any kind of discrimination on the grounds of gender, sexual orientation or any other consideration. And there's little to add to our team's discussions for today, because of this, we've had the complete agreement of today with the original initiative of the team proposer. I wish to thank the Representative of Podemos, Mr. U. Uria, as well as the representative of the Socialist Party, Mrs. Castelo, and the other groups who have not made any corrections, to protect our correction (I believe, nevertheless, that the Representative of the Basque People will protect him from gathering together for what Mr. Uria has advanced. Therefore, I would like to thank him beforehand.) And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, who represents the Potion of the Basque Groups, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mr Uria, we cannot from the People's Group support the GNP that has brought us today, because we do not agree with it. And I will try to give you the reasons why we do not agree and, moreover, try to convince you, because I do believe that a mistake is being made. Sincerely, judges cannot be chosen for their ideology. No democratic country in the world chooses judges to examine their ideology. Judges have to be chosen for their knowledge of law, and what has to be ensured is that they apply that knowledge of law and not their ideology when making judgments. I may or may not share, or my group may or may not share, the ideology you have told here of Mrs Elosegui, but that is indifferent. Our obligation is to respect it. And respect it because it is required by the 1950 Convention on Human Rights in its article 9 (freedom of thought, freedom of conscience and religious freedom), and in article 10 what it contains is freedom of expression. I mean, this lady may have opinions that are not criminal, that are not contrary to the law. For example, you have set us an example, and you are in the justification of your initiative, which says that you are against the next day's pill and that you are also against abortion and that, therefore, feminist groups say that you are against equal rights between men and women. Look at you, that's barbarity. There may be a person who is in favour of or against abortion; that abortion is legal does not mean that it is mandatory and that everyone has to be in favour of abortion. If she has a position – and I insist, I don't have to share it or not share it – on that particular aspect, she has the entire right of the world to express it freely, and that is why she is not against the equal rights of men and women. Not at all. It'll be a lady who's against abortion, period. For that kind of reasoning I cannot share your position, the agreement that all groups have reached. Nor can I share it for a reason, because here it has been said – I do not know if for all those who have intervened so far, but at least for you and for Mrs Castelo – that Mrs Elosegui has lied in her resume. You should know, and you should have found it with the ease that I found it on the Internet, the certificate (I will read it, that my memory does not give so much), the certificate that the Institute of Women made in 2005, which literally says: "It is certified that Dr. María Elósegui Itxaso has been part of the group of experts that has prepared, at the request of this body – the Institute of Women – a basic proposal for the drafting of the draft law on equality between men and women, work that has been carried out with complete satisfaction and within the prescribed time." - No, no, no, Then, yes, he did. This certificate was exhibited by the current Minister of Justice, Rafael Catalá, at the Congress of Deputies on the question of a socialist deputy. And the same person who hung up on social media – a leader of the Socialist Party – who said on social media that it was a lie, that he had not participated, sent a letter to Mrs Elóségui, apologizing to her, saying that she had been wrong. But you come back here and insist that you have indeed lied in your résumé when, meridianically and with minimal research on the Internet, you can see that, indeed, you did collaborate in the drafting of this law, and so was issued by the certificate, in 2005, of the Secretariat of the Institute for Women. An official document. That would be another reason not to support his claim. But here it is that when you come to an agreement – well, you come to an agreement, no; you join the amendment made by the members of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, of the two groups supporting the government – and you say that you join this initiative that has come out of the European Parliament (70 MEPs, not even 10% of the House; it is also not to throw rockets, 70 parliamentarians is a barbarity, 70 MEPs are not even 10% of the House), in which a very curious thing is asked. Look, they tell the president of the court and the legislature, they both tell them that this lady withdraws from their opinions and that if she doesn't, the procedure for revocation will start. Okay. Two comments on this. I mean, this lady is not valid for that position, but if she goes out one day to the rostrum and says, "hey, I'm retracting," then it's valid. What is this, a hairdo? That is, either meets the requirements or does not meet them. With him going out to the rostrum and saying, "I'm a feminist, I'm not a homophobic, I love transsexuals," with that I could already hold that position? Because that is what the initiative that has been referred to the President of the Court of Human Rights and the Legislative Assembly of the Council of Europe says. Curious. And on top of that it says, "And if it doesn't retract, then the revocation procedure starts." Well, look, thank God, fortunately, and our legal system, the judges are immobile. And who has appointed or elected this lady, who is supposed to have read her resume, who knows her – because she has been working for the Council of Europe for five years – who has collaborated with them, and they are the ones who have elected her by majority in front of the other candidates, they cannot revoke her appointment. There's no legal capacity to do that. It would have to be the members of the court themselves assembled, and by a two-thirds majority, who say that they have ceased to meet the requirements that brought her here. Then how are we going to support it, how are we going to ask from this Parliament that if it rectifys already we give up all the barbarities that it has said and is a perfectly fit person to occupy this position? And we also demand that the assembly revoke an appointment. That it's illegal, that it can't do it, that they don't have the capacity to do it... These are several of the reasons why, of course, we are not going to support your proposal, because, frankly, it does not seem the right one. I insist that I do not share this person's views. When I heard the news, I also remember perfectly, I heard it on the radio, I didn't know the name, I didn't know the surnames, but the news was that a Basque woman held that position at the Court of Human Rights for the first time. I told my wife about it and we celebrated it; we thought it was great news. Then we saw the controversy you brought back. Controversy, I insist, based on lies, because you have not falsified your résumé and you, Mrs Castelo and Mr Uria, should know, and if you did not know you should change your position, because it is very easy to find the certificate, I insist, official, an official document of the year 2005 in which you are grateful for the work you have done. I believe that these are more than sufficient grounds to oppose the initiative that you have put before us, and that is why, from the People's Group, we are going to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u102	Good afternoon, everyone. Maria Elósegui. It has been a great saying that this judge has been appointed to be in the City of the Human Rights of Europe. He has made a great remark on his words, which have been chosen once by media. And it's no big deal. But I'm afraid Mrs. Elósegui's words are not merely anectata, we've heard so many of them say. It's a crowd that doesn't approve of what's happiness. Look, I'm planning an exercise right now. I'll give you the pieces of Mrs. Elósegui's texts, and other people's words, and see if you can figure out whether Elósegui or someone else fired them. "Any attempt to present a homosexual couple as the equivalent of a happy marriage is simply an impossible presentation." Follow her. "If all of us who aren't gay went out in protest, we'd collapse the traffic." Sofia of Greece, Queen consort. Yes, all the Spanish and Spanish who could not choose her as head of state would collapse the street. "A man and a woman is one thing; two men is another thing; two women is another case; as I suppose a trio will also be something else." Ana Botella, and the pears and apples, we also remember. Just say the Macedonians are delicious. "It is known the experience of homosexuality as suffering and the fact that homosexual conduct implies a lower personal relationship and greater dependence on sex given the tendency to obtain immediate sexual gratification." Elosegui. "Masturbing is an assault on one's own body." Munilla. Busty masturbator, self-inflicted gore! "It is not explained that condoms are not effective against other sexually transmitted diseases more frequent than AIDS, such as gonorrhea, syphilis, herpes, pelvic infections, etc. Nor does condoms protect against sexual abuse itself, rather, can encourage them in the rapist, who puts means to prevent pregnancy in the victim." Elosegui. "Irregular abortion no longer brings women's deaths." Elosegui. "Laws are like women, they're about to violate them." José Manuel Castelao, resigned president of the General Council of Spanish Citizenship in the Exterior (this one had the decency to resign). "The women are apt to choose ill-paid jobs." Roberto's life, Confebask. Ostras, Roberto, you've put us on the table to stand up against the prefect of women. "We have to educate women so they don't get hit." Joaquin Leguina. "Women today don't want to emancipate from anything." Here you go. - No, no, no, "Children have penis, girls have vulva, don't be fooled. If you're born a man, you're a man. If you're a woman, you'll still be a woman." Make yourself heard. "Those who build and perform their sexual behavior according to their biological sex will develop balanced and healthy behavior; and those who strive to go against their biology will develop different pathologies. That's clear." Here (Makes you hear joan litekeen miscarriage of an lease). And we can go on, long, very long. But the fact that this exercise is proposed is not in our minds to say, "How strong this or the other has said," or "how much more advanced are we who are here." Homophobia, transphobia, mathsmic... I wanted to make out a series of barbarities, to show that this is a problem based on our society, and that the worst is often the reflection of the politics which the institutions themselves encourage. We still have the laws which tend to dogmatize them, the rights of people LGTBI still remain oppressed, and we still have the rights of women... And Maria Elósegui is the judge that the Spanish Government has proposed. Let's not forget it! This is the image the government wanted, the image of the pretty ones it inspires. The problem is not that of Elósegui, it belongs to the Spanish government, the procedure of naming these judges is that of the repression which urges pathologically. Because, like María Elósegui, the Spanish Government does not know that the rights of LGBTI collectives are human rights; they do not know that the conversion therapies they defend, psychological and psychiatric therapies for homosexuals and trans, are a violation of human rights. They do not know that the United Nations Human Rights Council has been collecting the rights of the LGBTI collective since 2011, in a statement by the General Assembly, and that the Yogyakarta Principles extend the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to the rights of LGBTI people. They do not know that homosexuality and transsexuality are not diseases, and therefore cannot be treated as such. They do not know that the right to abortion is covered by sexual and reproductive rights in human rights. And the persons who are to work in a court where it is to protect all this, who are to defend their fundamental rights, ought to be postulated, to be there merited, and not by the support of a government. The reflection of a government and the photograph of a momentary political point of view will be the members who will appear at every moment. So we'd like to draw two main points from today's discussion, and that's why we'll protect the middle-class agreement. One, Ms. Elósegui, but also to all the others we have spoken of, all those homophobs, transbos, and machistas, to say loudly: We do not accept what you say, and we will not accept the intention you intend to continue to maintain the rights of all these people! "I don't know. We will fight against it in streets and institutions. And that is to say, on our way to change all existing backward laws and to renew the obsolete protocols. On the other hand, we clearly mean that we do not admit the procedure of sending candidates for this court, much less as it retains the ability to guide the persons connected with the retrospect political ideology. We didn't make any correction from the Basque People gathering with the initial proposal, and even with the subsequent corrections we made together. Before this procedure, which is foreign to us, was as if it had been already said. And as far as we are going to be our legal system, so far as we are going to continue to take our steps, we are going to work on its transparent system, its partner, and its fundamental rights. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. If we go to the answers turn, then together Podemos shouldn't speak a word. Basque Socialists. Does Mrs. Castellao have a word to say?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u104	Very briefly and from the seat, to comment that when it is said that the curriculum was falsified, what Mrs Elósegui says in her resume is that she prepared the preliminary draft of the organic law on equality between women and men. And you know perfectly well that what the Women's Institute commissioned was Judge Fernando Lousada's basic document that outsourced this lady in part. And that when she is told and asked directly if she thinks that that is an inaccuracy, it is when she herself declares the words that I said to her earlier, saying that "I would not say that that is an inaccuracy, but that it is a way of summarizing in English and French a phrase that is said to be very long." I mean, she knew perfectly well that what she was saying, that she had participated in the drafting of the preliminary draft law, was not true and that she did so with a desire that her candidacy would have a better assessment. We are therefore fully committed and in favour of the motion for a resolution that we have had since the groups today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians mustn't speak. Anyone? Yeah. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, representative of the Basque Potula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Two things that I have forgotten to comment on in the first round and that I think are of some importance, and that is why they also justify our position. The first thing I obviously insist that Mrs Elosegui was not Mariano Rajoy's government candidate. This is what is written in all the media and that, precisely, it was a government of another color, it was the executive of José Luis Rodríguez, who at the time hired her to do those jobs. And if so bad person was, and ideas so contrary to law had, I don't understand why they hired her and why they certified, I insist, that she worked to prepare that draft. It would be an article, it would be two, it would be seven... I don't know, but he worked on it, and those are included in the certificate that I have literally read to you in my first intervention. You said you had to give him a chance to retract. I told them that seemed like a joke to me. Hey, the valley's in the valley. But he's retracted. It's just that he's retracted. It is that in the article that publishes El País days after his appointment, and that all the controversy had already erupted, she, when they begin to ask him, says that she can justify certain phrases in a temporary context, at a certain time, and that they would have to ask him what phrases and in what context. And you're clearly asked, are you homophobic? No, no, Do you have anything against transsexuals? No, no, Are you a feminist? He says, yes, I've been working all my life on issues of equality between men and women. Since the year 95 it began with its first writings at the Beijing conference on women's rights. Then retract, he's already retracted. Therefore, then, and in accordance with the second point of the agreement reached by all but the Group of the European People's Party, what should be left is that it should remain in its place of work. These have really been very harsh phrases that Bildu's representative has read to us here today. But the problem is that such harsh phrases (I don't understand why he mixed some things with others when we're talking specifically about Mr. Elosegui) is the double measuring rod. That is, when Mrs Elosegui is appointed, a transparent procedure must be carried out and the person must be independent. And that's what the same political group signed that named the man who replaced Mrs. Elosegui, López Guerra. Was he independent? No, he was clearly socialist. He'd held positions of responsibility. And their militancy (I don't know whether formal meat) or of course their adherence to the Socialist Party is known to all. And I'm not going to get into this anymore, because it's been nine years that he's given us a mandate! Finally, we must be transparent and independent in some cases and in others not. We have to be very hard on a lady's statements, but and what do you tell me about those famous statements of "the whip to make her bleed that." But as the alpha machito of a political group says, there the feminists say absolutely nothing, everyone shuts up and everyone gives him the word to continue on the subject. Now, the unfortunate statements of others do have to be punished and therefore they have no right to occupy a position, I insist, in which ideology is never seen. None of the 47 member countries required an ideological examination of the candidates they submitted, because they could not do so, because it would run counter to articles 9 and 10 of the 1950 European Convention on Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mrs. Houseboy? Yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u108	Bakarrik alusioengatik and I'll do it in Spanish. I think Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has just failed to understand why I have brought different phrases, and it was precisely because the measuring rod should be for all people alike. And I was talking about that in this system, transphobia, homophobia and machism is totally impregnated, and that's why I was bringing it to the rostrum. Then I think there's been a misunderstanding there. It's just that, and I agree with you: the measuring rod for everyone alike. I couldn't bring all the sentences, because with ten minutes I couldn't.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Now that we've ended our discussion, we're going to vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists and Eucators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 64; the opponents seven; the white ones, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-22.u110	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon.
