ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u42758	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament pursuant to Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the agenda to the 7th session with 7 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 7th session. And as I have announced, we will now move to deliver a position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives, and the first on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Ante Prkacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u42808	I'm on now, aren't I? So, I wanted to commend the Vice President of the Parliament first, and a little bit. In fact, the President of the Parliament and all vice presidents are doing their job quite well and well, as I am very pleased with today's debates. Well, we in this House have a lot of people who have something to say and who talk smart. You led well and run the session well, but why didn't you have enough courage when I warned you yesterday, that today is 21.5, the day of independence for us friendly Montenegro, or at least the part that is friendly to us, for that reason I put a Montenegrin national flag before me. So, I will congratulate the honorable Montenegrins on the day, in fact, not statehood but the day of independence. At the same time, to express regret over the very difficult situation in Montenegro, because of the major problems that Montenegrins face at this time and this statement of stance will primarily be directed at those who have committed evil and crime against Montenegro and Montenegro. Because it's no ordinary problem. The proud Duklja is not experiencing ordinary problems but a serious tragedy, but I believe in Montenegrin Greens, Montenegrin committees, or today Democrats and patriots, that this match will be won. And now what's going on in Montenegro what's going on? Well, that's very simple. It happens because Montenegro is borderline connected to Serbia. Had it not been for borderline ties with Serbia, no problems would have been caused by the Serbian imperialism, Serbian fascism and Serbian megalomania shooting at Montenegro, in the end, we Croats felt the same way, also felt similar to the Macedonians, also similar to Kosovo Albanians, etc. I will try today, therefore, even though I spoke in fragments about Serbia-Montenegro's relationship, but I will try to address the most important part of Serbia-Montenegro's co-existence. He's tied to the I.D. War. When the 28.6. Sarajevo assassination, a month later, Austria announced war on Serbia. Montenegro at the same time or very quickly announces war on Austria and heroically defends Serbia and Serbia's interests, battles surrounding the 6th and 7th Moljkovec are famous. '916. Sir, when the Montenegrin army protects the Serb army's resignation so it can flee to Shkodra and from there to Corfu. The Serbian army is also planning to destroy the Montenegrin army while planning to escape, as Montenegro has won all possible concessions from Austria, it has been offered financial support, even Skadar has been offered, only to stay out of the war. For Serbia's sake, Montenegro joins the war, in gratitude to Serbia in 1918, 26.11., in the shameful Podgorica Assembly, takes Montenegro's state and statehood, takes nationality, takes the Montenegrin Orthodox Church as well. I have to speed up because this time goes by quickly again, so it totally destroys the Montenegrin state. The Montenegrin state is beginning to rebuild 13.6.'41. Sir, last time I spoke of the crimes of the Partisan movement of Josip Broz Tito here, in Croatia, however, his participation and his contribution to Montenegro is quite different, I think that if I were a Montenegrin, I would pay great attention to them because they participated in the beginning of the restoration of Montenegro's statehood, and what is happening? Partly renewed in Yugoslavia, Montenegro's statehood, I have to speed it up again, in 2006, independence was declared today. Even Montenegro's independence has passed. But when touched in the interests of the Serbian Orthodox Church, fierce battles began, because she... was actually a prelude to war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if there were no choice or victory in the pro-Serbian current, I believe that would have happened in Montenegro. However, what do I want from this place today? If we had to call the Europarliamentaries here, explain to them what is happening in Montenegro, because in Montenegro, an attempt to pass a new law on the census, or a new law on statehood, by which one 40,000 non-Montenegrons would get their citizenship, and 30,000 Montenegrins would lose their citizenship and Montenegro as a state disappears, my time goes away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u43000	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS and will be spoken by the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u43001	Dear MPs and MPs, here I am going to end this week and as I started it, which is a congratulatory to all progressive forces who in the first round of local elections have broken the existing oscillators and corrupt structures and I will stress what I have already pointed out, that for a real change that Croatian citizens need not only change the power at local level, although it is a very, very good start, there is a need to make radical changes here in HS and at the level of the entire state. As you know, I have concluded to HS that the draft Anti-Corruption Strategy which I have prepared has two chapters that have not been discussed so far in the context of the fight against corruption, which is a reform of electoral legislation and the reform of the territorial structure towards reducing the number of counties, cities and municipalities. In addition, it is necessary to establish a functional, efficient and independent judiciary and strengthen preventive anti-corruption tools. And since the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown absolutely no willingness to make any positive quality step in this regard, it has not taken into account the Commission's proposals to decide on a conflict of interest which has been on the table since 2017. I have come up with a way to fight corruption from the bottom to the top, or from the lowest levels. And that would mean that units of local self-government in their own anti-corruption programme are tracking down some of the measures some municipalities and some cities have already introduced. In short, I would like to present what measures these should be, one of them is a register full of fiscal transparency with the exception of a city full of cities, a lot of municipalities that started with fiscal transparency actually stuck somewhere halfway along the road and didn't hit a bit. Therefore, fiscal transparency or openness of the budget is not achieved by allowing some search engines to enter the name of the company or of the OIB to obtain data on a transaction. Full fiscal transparency means that you have a proactive announcement in one single table at any time of all possible transactions both on the front and on the exit. Many units don't actually have it but allow search only if the user already knows exactly which company or which transaction he's looking for. That actually twists the meaning and twists the purpose. To this extent, the register of all business relationships is being updated and we have many cities again, such as Rijeka or some other where the search system allows only to look for information that you already know in part that exists, and you do not have one unique register in which at all times all data on all business relationships are available, all contracts can be walked through such a register in all directions, however you will be. I say, the praise of one city is actually the Holy Sunday that went the farthest, but there is also room for new measures and for new improvements. The third thing I propose is to introduce a register of lobbying activities, so other than the mayor and his deputy in every municipality in every city, there are a whole series of people who can be considered city or municipal officials in a broader sense who participate in the decision-making process and affect the lives of citizens and there are corruption risks in their work, a simple and proactive publication of all meetings at city or municipal authorities would reduce the possibility of misuse of inappropriate lobbying. So lobbying can contribute to better information from the decision - making person and in itself is not harmful activity, it is harmful to abuse, so if someone uses their public position to please someone. Proactive publication of these meetings would significantly reduce corruption risks. And thirdly, the ethical codes and integrity plans that would introduce the conflict of interest rule for all city employees, members of companies and institutions and, most importantly, the regulation of a broad ban on entry into business relations not only for the mayor and his deputy but also for members of the management of commercial companies, directors of institutions and for all employees, so not all employees of city and municipal services are allowed to operate with their city or their municipality neither with the commercial societies of that city nor with the institutions of that city except for rare, rare, rare exceptions and a special internal control system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u43162	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Bernardic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u43163	This week, we had the opportunity to discuss the adoption of a new Law on the institutional framework for the use of EU funds as if it were not clear to everyone in this country that without that law, this institutional framework is actually too complicated, inefficient, unfair and the worst dispute. The law will only further slow down the withdrawal of funds, unfortunately at poor levels, from 2013 to 2020, only half of the funds were withdrawn, while 4 ministers left, these are facts. I don't mean to do it today because it's completely irrelevant. What I want to deal with is something that's focused on the future, it's one topic that unfortunately isn't often mentioned in HS. It's about technology transfer and investment in research and development. It is known that, by the percentage of GDP investment in research and development, Croatia is at the very bottom of Europe. Croatia has also been in the last 30 years. The existence of our statehood brought down by a technological giant as we were in the early '90s with strong and respectable high-tech companies of the world voice to a state that is by patents and their exploitation and commercialisation at the world bottom. And so when we had a debate today about the reduction of hydrocarbon emissions, we also have that emissions lower because the industry was ruined, first by conversion and privatisation, and later by lack of any vision and by not investing in high technology. In Croatia there is everything, a strategy of education, science and technology Smart Specialisation strategy from today, the strategy of reducing hydrocarbon emissions, but all of these strategies are actually a dead letter on paper because there is no over-the-counter implementation plan and what it looks like in practice and best says data that the government only in theory enables the implementation of various measures that contribute to the transfer of technology through the centres at the University of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Ruđer Boskovic Institute and in practice it is actually devastating, none and slow. Why am I saying that? Because these offices that should serve to promote high-tech products and the transfer of these technologies are forced to apply to European funds were not given funding to keep experts there for a while, afterwards these experts, when the project financing expires, are simply forced to leave these offices and the purpose of these offices is raised unless they have self-sustainable and sufficient funding to be concrete support for this technology transfer to the market sustainability of the innovative product through new spin off and spin out companies. How many such companies have been created in Croatia in the last few years? Does anyone know? What financial measures do we encourage to grow but also grow and develop these companies, does anyone know that? What model is that? He's gone. This is unfortunately a Croatian practice, it is extremely bad and perhaps the best information about the competition for European funds for CECOM launched in 2016 is about 100m euros, these funds were approved only in 2020. So these funds have been blocked for four full years and, as you know, in four years, countries, the world, technology, let alone an innovative idea or an innovative project. And the real question is whether projects that receive money after 4 or 5 years are more innovative in the phase of realisation of the project itself. So the whole concept doesn't make any sense. One concrete example of an entrepreneur who, for example, applies to this fund, has a million-and-a-half kuna project, and then there are several stages of payment and now in order to even get payment compensation, he must first, co-finance the project itself, which for many, especially small entrepreneurs represents an insurmountable barrier. So this model is completely expendable, and there is no evaluation, there is no analysis of success, their cost-effectiveness, we need to see who measures the results and what impact on the development of Croatian economies and the answer is more than clear to everyone. Unfortunately, the impact is either minimal or perhaps minimal, so minimal that it is practically negligible. Not to say there are no new competitions or announcements. So this model is completely inefficient and I would say, absolutely pointless and that investment in research and development depends on our country's future. If you look at the rare companies most successful in Croatia, Infobip or Nanobit, they are actually exceptions to the rule. They did not use slow and inefficient state funding, so they succeeded not because of the government but despite the authorities. Therefore, Croatia needs a new model of technological development because we are stuck with the existing model in the 20th century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u43257	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Kirin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u43258	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and everyone who listens to us and watches. Greetings to all participants in the election, congratulations to the elected, happy candidates in the second round. I'll talk a little bit about the LNG terminal business on Krk. We didn't pay attention to LNG terminal operations because of our election engagement, so let's remind you. The project is of strategic importance for Croatia and Europe, and in 2015 it was declared a strategic project for Croatia. Strong support for the construction of the terminal was given by American President Biden... and the project is of strategic and geopolitical importance to the EU. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The entire floating terminal project was accompanied by the dissatisfaction of environmental associations, parts of locals and local political leaders, who expressed concern about possible sea pollution, noise, damage to the island of Krk's vision and the economic viability of the floating terminal and security. The return on investment is expected from renting cca. 0.52 billion of gas-blocked space meters per year, and terminal costs are estimated at EUR 13 million per year. Full capacity is 2.6 billion cubic metres of gas. Capacity capacity is 100% first 3.g. Since '21. Until '24, and already 84% fill-in from '24. Until '27. LNG Croatia has contracts with capacity rentals much for empty. The floating terminals that are now around 20 have no incidents in the world, and the tankers carrying the incinerated gas have no accidents, it's about the cca fleet. 500 tankers and incinerated gas has been transported in this way for 60 years. The noise with all the stories is within limits that do not exceed maximum permitted values. The commercial work of the terminal began on January 1st, '21st. when a tanker 300 arrived at LNG port... With 143 cubic metres of natural gas, 11th or even 21st. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] News in the Omisale Terminal was due to arrive at another 3 tankers, but they were re-routed to Asian markets where the price of gas had yielded record values. The Croatian economy lost EUR 200,000 by not coming to each tanker, so the start of terminal work marked turbulence in the business caused by price anomalies and arbitration positions at global level, and changes in ship arrival schedules. The opponents of the terminal were liquefied, but since March, the arrival has stabilized. Finally, on May 14, five more tankers arrived at the terminal, two months, so six in total. Everyone who thinks about the economically well-known concept of starting a job is a multiplicative effect, which is the launch of complimentary jobs. The landing of each LNG ship includes shipping security fees, remarquet fees, port pilots, agents and a number of other services that provide all kinds of state-owned and private-owned companies to ships and crews, so that opponents who call for problems in business are not very lucky. Energy continues to play a key role in global politics. A country that can offer to use such a piece of infrastructure comes to a strategic advantage. Croatia is registered on the World Energy Infrastructure map, an increase in Croatia's energy autonomy. We must thank the government and the Prime Minister for not bowing down to opposers of the floating terminal. Thank you very much, thank you for your attention and may the dear God protect you, you and the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u43356	Thank you. Next will be the Club of Representatives of the Mosta in a name to be spoken by the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u43357	Today I will talk about ethical and political controversy related to the application of what is called a covid passport, and we are right on the threshold of the same application. First of all, there is something to be said from the epidemiological perspective, in this sense it is important to point out that the length of immunity was still the natural acquired, whether acquired through the vaccination of unknowns, so the open question is how much of this document should be worth? And the question indicates that it is a hasty decision of the epidemiological justification in question that has yet to create an illusion of normalisation. In particular, the fact that the time of six months has been, say, since the person overcame the COvid criterion for obtaining such a document does not necessarily mean anything. Six months is currently a criterion because research has covered six months, not because immunity has only been acquired for six months. Why would someone have antibodies even after that time, say who got over covid after eight months and could get proof of them was in a subordinate position compared to who got over covid five months ago? The other problem is that as long as all Member States do not have equal access, at least one of those three conditions, so until all countries are equally split, such a decision is discriminatory because it puts different EU members in an unequal position. Simplifyingly, while a good part of Malta will get confirmation without further anxiety about testing, most Croats will be very much tormented because we remain among the lowest-separated countries within the EU. Politically, since the EU created to link the countries within it, loosen the borders, these decisions are dangerous from the perspective of the future political future of the EU because, on the one hand, it leaves room for Member States to introduce additional restrictions on the existing passport, which makes it pointless and confirms the need for Member States to turn to themselves in each crisis, as was the case with the acquisition of the vaccine. On the other hand, it creates two Europeans, the healthy one and the unhealthy one, discriminating the contagious one, which is a first-rate social issue because for various reasons it is clear that this Europe of second order will be mobile or harder and poorer. As far as Croatia and its problems are concerned, the basic question is whether everyone has at all proof that they are vaccinated in view of all the chaos that was present in Croatia around the split and the Cepis platform? Politically again, if the non-recognition of vaccines that are not approved within the EU is the issue of the rights of our citizens who are on temporary leave, say, in Russia or China, who have done it there, who often travel, who, because they have already been vaccinated, cannot and will not be vaccinated again, and do not want to be tested every time because it is a pointless waste of money, whoever paid it, state or individual. Is this where their rights are violated? Finally, the question of what is this trying to accomplish? Health-safe Europe, health-resistant European travellers or health-secure Member States? Covid passports, so-called, can possibly provide health-safe travellers as soon as a person enters the ground on some countries takes risks, depending on who gets in touch with them. It is important to note that not all people who have satisfied those three categories are the same. Those who have been vaccinated, those who have suffered probably cannot be infected or infected, while those who have just confirmed that they are not infected are at risk of infection. Do they have the right to require that these same certificates be used by their hosts, who, for example, will come to summer in all other places? Where will all these certificates, not only officially, but also unofficially be sought, and who can prevent it at all? Croatia is one of the countries that is largely dependent on tourism, but this is not the solution. In that sense, it should be pointed out that last year we also had a season, that we will have this year independent of these passports. This is just opening Pandora's box because it's a precedent where the health situation is a prerequisite for crossing the border, which will certainly be exploited in the future. Given that we are able to protect our citizens, which is because of our capacities, which is due to poor political leadership, which, due to poverty, is at the beginning of the EU. To assume that discrimination within Europe under the criteria of healthy and unhealthy Europeans in the future could cost us the most in the future. We should therefore oppose discriminatory practices such as imposing this passport and seeking a more lasting, unequivocally democratic, fair solution to this health crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u43358	Thank you very much. That's what we came to the end of today's work. We will continue the session on Wednesday, May 26 at 9.30, and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 12.15 hours. Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative, Davor, find, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u43491	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. I've been reading from the media today that since June 1st, there's been a drop in measures, but yet there's nothing to say, which measures exactly, in any form or form. And the question arises why is it always waiting for a literal day, two before these measures change? Why is it so difficult for the private sector as well as for everyone else, that what is going to be so drastically different in 7 days from today that it can't be today but a word in which direction these measures are going to change? With all of us seeing through this epidemic that these measures often knew the essence of absurd and now in recent days we have seen examples of absurd experiments where we have some test celebrations where we actually only have groups of vaccinated citizens and checked negative while on the other hand we have no control over groups of unvaccinated people. That way we can compare the results with something. Now the question is, what is the purpose of such research? Even it could have been theoretically possible that someone who was vaccinated to infect that event elsewhere because the vaccines, yes, protect over 90%, but they don't exactly protect 100%, and then people would know if that person was infected at that event or elsewhere. So I'm not a scientist, but just logic tells me that it didn't make much sense. Now, if we look at this last time of luck, in all of Europe, in fact, these numbers of infected people are falling, I think it was about the same thing last year at this time, obviously that this virus actually has a seasonal character, and hopefully now that since June 1st, when it is going to be in the direction of easing these measures that still measures will be completely abolished and that we won't be doing discrimination on healthy people, whether they're vaccinated, whether they're unvaccinated because many people haven't actually had a chance to get in line yet, and even if they've had a chance, if someone's healthy, I just don't see the logic to discriminate on it. Yes, I call on people to be vaccinated, to be vaccinated as soon as possible, but I think it's simply our obligation to protect human rights, and if someone is healthy, we simply must not discriminate against them in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49253	And now we would move to the first point of today's programme, which is: - The proposal for a strategy for low-carbon development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, with a view to 2050, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 12. The laws on climate change and the protection of the ozone layer. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Economic Affairs, the Committee on Environment and Nature and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, dear Mile Horvat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49254	Dear MPs, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I will give you a brief presentation here, i.e. as soon as possible, of the Low-carbon Development Strategy by 2030 with a view to 2050. This is a very large document as you can see. It's been done for a long time. It was done in a wide range of consultations with the professional public, with an interested public and this is a document of course that has not yet been completed because this whole issue of low-carbon development cannot be completed by adopting one document. This strategy puts the Republic of Croatia on the path towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions and towards low-carbon development. It will contribute to the achievement of the contribution to the objectives of the Paris Agreement on the retention of temperature increases up to a maximum of 1.5 degrees in relation to the pre-industrial period. The strategy itself provides an analysis of the reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions, improvements in the removal of sinks, expected progress towards low-carbon development by sector, estimates of long-term investment in research, innovation and development, and the expected social economic impact of decarbonisation measures related to macroeconomic and social development, health risks and benefits and environmental protection. As part of the EU, Croatia has shared the climate ambition shown in the European Green Plan of the European Commission since 2019 on making the EU climatically neutral by 2050. When all the implications of the EU's common objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions are known from minus 55 to 2030 and the climate neutrality target by 2050 on sectoral policies will be possible to complete the zero-emission scenario for Croatia, which is announced in this strategy. The obligation to develop a Low Carbon Development Strategy by 2030, with a view to 2050, has been established by EU legislation, is prescribed by the Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone Layer. The law also stipulates the obligation to draw up a five-year action plan for its implementation. The low-carbon strategy is therefore a national, long-term and multi-sectoral strategy that contributes to the definition of the roof national development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. The process, in the process of developing a strategy, went through 4 steps. In the first step, the first step started in 2012 as a LEC project in partnership with the UN Development Programme, making a framework for the development of a low-carbon development strategy through a number of sectoral workshops. In the second step from 2014 to 2015, with the participation of many institutions, expert bases have been developed with the result of the Green and White Paper. The Green Paper, the White Paper are detailed technical analyses of objectives and measures, and the White Paper is a draft low-carbon strategy. In the third step of 2016 to 2017, new budgets and low-carbon scenarios were implemented. The reason was the changes in the historical data set, the innovation of fuel prices and technology. A second revision of the White Paper or a proposal for a low-carbon strategy has been made in consultations with the competent ministries. In the fourth period of 2019 to 2020, this is now the period, a White Paper innovation has been carried out to bring the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets into line in the energy sectors. The Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia was then developed by 2030 with a view to 2050. The Integrated National Energy Climate Plan for the period from 2021 to 2030 was also needed. At the same time, the reference and low-carbon scenarios of all sectors outside energy have been updated, and these are industrial processes and the use of production, agriculture, waste, land use, land reuse and.../incomprehensible/... in the system.../incomprehensible/... A number of scenarios have been analysed in the creation of a low-carbon strategy, and an integrated model for national projections of greenhouse gases is developed low-carbon strategic planning of the Republic of Croatia. The greenhouse gas emissions and projections were demonstrated in accordance with the 2006 Intergovernmental Panel Guide methodology for climate change. So, the Republic of Croatia, like, as some goal, needs to go through a low-carbon strategy that is the most favourable for its citizens, that is, that is, that is, the basic message of this, this Strategy, the cost of measures, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, must not endanger economic development, and also, the implementation of low-carbon development measures, should be financed by the pollutants themselves. The emissions, total greenhouse gas emissions in the Republic of Croatia including sinks, in 2019 amounted to around 23,000 kilotons, CO2 equivalent, representing a reduction in emissions by 24.79% compared to greenhouse gas emissions from the 1990s. European Emissions Trading System, so-called ETS system, in that system are included all energy sources, in, with the main, with the input... thermal power greater than 20 megawatts, such as thermal power plants, such as refineries, mineral products industry, which are cement, glass, brick, chemical industry, iron and steel industry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It notes here that we in the greenhouse gas emissions trading system have a total of 48 entities + one airline, and the entire EU includes about 11,000 such entities with this system. The ETS emissions accounted for 31.8% of total greenhouse gas emissions in 2019. The GDP emission intensity decreased by 34% between 2004 and 2018 and around 2.5% annually, respectively. The objectives and general objectives of the Low-carbon strategy are to achieve sustainable knowledge-based development and competitive low-carbon economy, increase energy security, solidarity with the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's obligations to international agreements within the EU, and reduce air pollution and health impacts. In order to achieve these objectives, 102 measures have been selected in this Strategy and can be applied to reducing emissions, technical and non-technical types in different sectors and are the production of electronic energy and heat, production and processing of fuel, transport, general consumption involving households and services, industry, agriculture, land use, land use change and forestry, in the waste sector, use of products and fungi emissions. These measures are embedded in 3 main scenarios, these are the reference scenario, the stage transition scenario, so on. scenario 1 and the scenario of the necessary transition, so-called Screen 2. The reference scenario assumes technological progress and the growth of the share of renewable energy and energy efficiency, based on the market situation and today's target energy standards, so this is some sort of starting size. In the phase transition scenario, or scenario 1, the share of renewable energy in 2030 should be 36.6%, and in 2050 it could be 53.2%. In scenario 1, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 33.5% in 2030 and 56.8% in 2050 compared to the reference '90s. In scenario 2, the strong transition scenario was dimensioned, the scenario was dimensioned with the aim of achieving a reduction in emissions by 80% in 2050 compared to the 1990s. In 2050, the share of renewable energy sources in 2030 was assumed to be 36.6 and 65.6% in 2050. In this scenario, in 2050, the dominant source of emissions remains traffic, then agriculture and industry. Today's known measures include those that are acceptable to agriculture in socio-economic terms, could reduce emissions by 36.7% and 73.1% in 2030 in '50. Mr. The remainder up to 80% is counting on new technologies that are not yet in use. The zero emissions scenario is included in the form of information as an important element for the implementation of the European Green Plan and for achieving climate neutrality by 2050. At a meeting of the European Council on 10 and 11 December 2020, the prime ministers adopted the EU emissions reduction target from at least -55% to '30. Mr. Further Step is an amendment to the EU's entire climate policy legislation by 2030, following all these expectations and amendments to EU rules, changes to the strategic and other documents in the Republic of Croatia on the finalisation of the Net Zero Emissions Screenmarks will be approached. So, we expect around 15.7. to have an EU regulation package, which is, the package includes 13 regulations, which would then define further guidelines in reducing the implementation of Zero Emissions scenarios. As for financing, therefore, it is estimated that, for a transition towards low-carbon development, it will take between 39 billion and 66 billion kuna in the period from '21. By the '30s. G., which will total around 0.92 to 1.6% of the Republic of Croatia's GDP. In the '31s. By 2050, the cost will be around 107 to 168 billion kuna, covering 0.96 to 1.51% of GDP. The analysis of the Faculty of Economics shows that the implementation of measures from the ambitious scenario would have a favourable effect on all major macroeconomic indicators, so that GDP growth would be 2.5 to 3% annually in the period considered, given the level of GDP in 2018, which would mean around 11 billion kuna per year. The increase in tax revenues would be around 1.6 billion kuna a year. Framework for financing measures in... to finance the measures planned and envisaged in this strategy, decent measures already exist, so the RH will be available for projects and for the achievement of climate targets totalling around €62.5 billion, of which €36 billion from VFO to 2027, 1.65 billion from the Recovery and Resistance Fund, 2.7 billion from the Modernisation Fund, 5.5 billion from the revenue on auctioning emissions under the greenhouse gas emissions trading system, will also be available to the Republic of Croatia as well as around 1.3 billion from the Just Transition Fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, safe resources will be from the Innovation Fund, the Connecting Europe Fund, the European Fund for Strategic Investments and others. Other sources of funding are competitions such as Horizon 2020 and Horizon Europe and the Life Programme. From the point of view of greenhouse gas emissions, priority interventions in transport, energy intensive industry, healthcare, construction and renewable energy sources are recognised. The low-carbon strategy has been carried out by a strategic environmental impact assessment procedure, in accordance with the rules governing environmental protection in the strategic study, the possible impact of a low-carbon strategy on the environment and the environmental network, and certain environmental protection measures and measures to mitigate impact on the conservation and integrity objectives of the ecological network area. The education system should become the leader in promoting the principle of low-carbon development, young people entering the education system today will be the bearers of change in the future and will not implement the goals of a low-carbon strategy without their knowledge and conviction. Research and development are among the biggest potential factors in GDP growth, immediately after employment increases, and therefore in the Republic of Croatia there is a need to increase R & D expenditure, closer to the EU average level, and access to resources should also allow the private sector for applied scientific and development research. Action is increasingly moving towards the independent activities of local self-government and cities units. More ambitious initiatives such as carbon neutral islands, cities and the like should be supported. This also includes public and other transport, construction, municipal systems, autonomous systems, information-communal technology education systems, urbanism, innovative solutions in various areas and public awareness raising. And the increase, finally the turnover of the transition to a low-carbon economy, as well as continuous and long-term work and affects the overall society and economy, therefore the successful implementation of the low-carbon strategy requires horizontal, cross-sectoral cooperation between the central authorities and public authorities, and vertical cooperation, maintained to the local level. The body of the state administration responsible for climate change policy, i.e. the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, shall report to the European Commission on the implementation of a low-carbon strategy through a report on the application of a low-carbon strategy within the time limits of certain regulations, i.e. in accordance with the schedule agreed at international level. The component of this document is also the catalogue of the measures shown here on the page. No. 106, and e-consultation has been conducted over the past few years, conferences have been held since the beginning of 2015, so 5 sectoral workshops have been held, a conference on the topic of discussion on this document was held in 2017, two rounds of e-consultation has been conducted, the last e-consultation has been conducted since 2. 5 to 2. Six. In 2020, around 23 relevant and interested entities participated in the whole process, there were around 130 objections which were explained in the part of this document. No financial resources were needed to carry out the consultation of this document in the Republic of Croatia's budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49255	Thank you very much, we have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Vucimilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49256	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In the strategy that you presented to us, you explicitly state how many new jobs will be opened but what I am interested in in terms of our situation in industry, given the characteristics of the unemployed who are mostly medium professional equipment, specifically in 5 Slavonian counties, that is how many jobs will be closed through the implementation of this strategy. Have you done such projections, and do you have that number? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49257	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49258	I thank you, Your Honor. So the Faculty of Economics helped us with certain research, when doing a projection of how much transition to a low-carbon economy could create perspective jobs, so we were told in principle for the needs of this strategy that this could be between 50 and 100,000 jobs according to their approximations. Whether this will be largely dependent on how we manage as a society in all of this, how much of the state's initiatives will be there, and how much more private factor initiatives will be, so it is an approximation of the university, but of course we would like it to be realised, will not depend on this document but on the implementation of measures that both the government and the local self-government and the private initiative will implement during this period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49259	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49260	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. The low-carbon development of Croatia is related to the concept of ‘glass gases’ or ‘ greenhouse effect’. The largest share among them, among these greenhouse gases is CO2, carbon dioxide. It's a major by-product of most human activities and burning fossil fuels. Please, is the gas low-carbon fuel and how much more environmentally acceptable is it in terms of greenhouse gas emissions in transport where fuel is used as fuel and diesel in the highest percentage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49261	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49262	I thank you, Your Honor, I assume you're interested in the position of using gas in this, in this strategy, in this document in perspective. So, the document said that gas is in principle considered a transition energy and it is as such an RH still needed to balance the system, so it has its own infrastructure, it has transmission systems built that can be used and the remaining gas itself will as energy according to some data of the European Commission will be yet, a certain period ahead will be current as fuel.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49263	The next replica of a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49264	Dear Secretary of State, yesterday I told the board that this is a strategy that has been written so long that it has become obsolete in the meantime. And when you look at the MCC 16 green public procurement measure, it should have practically led to a 50% green public procurement by 2020. There's not a word here about whether or not we did it because it would show whether or not we did it. It's hard to carry out a measure if you haven't even brought in the strategy you're implementing it for yet. And the other thing to mention here is the alafordian way of writing this strategy where it says we're going to live in low-energy small-emission buildings, when we remember that we recently passed the Rehabilitation Act where the government didn't want to accept that, with constructive reconstruction, energy recovery is going on. He says we'll be driving electric and hybrid vehicles with less use of motor vehicles in cities. Yeah, we'll drive less electric vehicles because we won't be able to buy them. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49265	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49266	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49267	My colleague Brumnic, please, if we don't stick together, then we'll be a long time. ... Don't get it from the bench. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49268	I thank you, Your Honor, so you've opened up a number of questions here now. First of all, the strategy itself, I said what time period it was. The fact is that the EU itself has not defined its final targets until several months ago, so the final target of minus 55% emission reductions defined back a year. And if we know that we haven't yet received a framework package of rules of conduct from the commission, and we're going to get it as I said only 14th and 15th, then we know why, why we've been waiting with this document. He worked backwards long enough because he had to prepare, make one preparation, a professional basis for this document to be better quality. Perhaps he could have been brought a year earlier, but today he would have been re-adapted with this goal that was defined back a few months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49269	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to emphasise the importance and necessity of periodic review in the strategy. In each strategic planning, we must therefore have periodic audits, especially as regards this financial part. There is, of course, this chapter, you explained it, the ecological transition cost, these costs are especially increasing after 2030, and I have no doubt that these data were made professionally based on the information we have today, but it is clear also that we are facing the economic crisis after the pandemic, that expansion monetary policy in both America and Eruopa, which does not follow any increase in production but is the answer to this pandemic, will bear the same increase in inflation. These are all processes that will also affect this financial structure, so here I am stressing the importance of a periodic review of such a strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49271	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49272	I would like to thank you, Your Honor, for the general rules, since they will be followed in 2030. In the big difference between the first and second scenarios that we predicted here, so there will be a need that after 2030. The Republic of Croatia has rechecked and determined its path towards a low-carbon strategy. And otherwise all members of the Paris Agreement shall be subject to these rules every 5 years. carry out audits, audits of their documents and objectives and measures, generally referred to by means of targets set. That's how we're gonna have to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49273	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49274	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, as much as this broad scale, would say a large strategy has certainly good sides and very detailed examples, however, we must finally say that it lacks a lack of real courage, a lack of political will to make that right turn and to be, why not, a positive example to other countries because, within this strategy, it continues to include new oil and gas research. As much as it is said that gas is more favourable, gas imports via LNG terminals, and in particular coal use for the next 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49275	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49276	Thank you. Your Honor. So there could also be a broader conversation here. We did go ambitious here, even in principle in a group of countries that accepted the 50-55 plan more ambitiously, the other countries were at 40 some to 50%, we advocated the ambition minus 55%, so in the group we're more ambitious. We prescribed ourselves that we will have renewable sources of Europe said by the 1930s a percentage of 32%, we said no, we will have 36.6%. It assumes technological development, economic strength, economic capacity. It's easy to set size, but are we aware of our capacities within the economy and can we do that to those capacities whether they can achieve these goals, so I think this is a real assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49277	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49278	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. This is another of the strategies that we have in a series of strategies, it took a long time to get into this HS. I must admit that I am looking forward to it, that we have the opportunity to discuss it for the simple reason that it is one of the basic documents without which we will not be able to move on and which we have set in our own legislation. But what I am interested in is, at one point, the government said that the strategy will bring there somewhere in 2016, 2017, so you can see which distance we have made, which is with the action plans because without certain action plans to be adopted, this strategy will unfortunately remain just another in a series of documents. So I'm interested in having an opportunity to say what's going on with the action plans, when you expect them to be, are they the elements and the way the strategy can be implemented. You and I know well that it is not implemented directly but is carried out through a number of other documents. Where are we with that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49279	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49280	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. This is a very specific issue, so this strategy must draw up an action plan as a document to be designated by the holders, which will set guidelines, deadlines and financial means for implementing certain measures. The action plan is done, so the professional background is ordered, it's done, we do intersectoral meetings in the meantime. Here we had three of the three ministries of inter-resorial meetings last week where we tried to exharmonize all the views on the implementation and concept of the future action plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49281	And the next replica of the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49282	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. When we recently talked about biofuels, then there was a lot of talk about transforming the refinery into a biorefinery and it would go through that National Recovery Plan of a billion kuna if I remember correctly. It's been said a billion, but okay, let's say more. What about Ina's facility to process the heavy remains in a refinery in Rijeka, now I'm reading a little bit about it? What's the funding? It is mentioned that some four billion kunas will live by 2023, that it is also not only new plants but also reconstruction of existing plants and INA says that production will cover all market needs and abolish imports. How long will these market needs be met and to what extent will this project contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions because this strategy of yours shows that the oil and gas processing sector accounts for 7.4% of greenhouse gas emissions in the Republic of Croatia, which is 74.6% of the emissions from the refinery? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49283	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49284	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. I will only be able to answer this first part of the issue of biorefinery in Sisak because it is part of this strategy, and for this part of your response to the behaviour of INA in Rijeka I will send you a written reply that I did not improvise. Therefore, this strategy foresees biorefineries as some kind of energy or power plant for the production of future energy. The fact is that we have put co-financing in the Recovery Plan, opened the space, so we are proposing that it is not yet adopted, we propose and co-finance the project of building biorefinery in Sisak. It is a biorefinery whose value at some rate is three billion kuna with one third will be participated by the Republic of Croatia as co-owner of the INA in 42 or 3 percent, if these companies we estimate that this biorefinery is required to be made in Sisak because of the whole situation in Sisak County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49285	Thank you very much. Thank you, Secretary of State. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, will speak to a respected representative named Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49286	Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with what you're done with. You are talking about a biorefinery in Sisak in which Croatia will invest a billion kunas of European funds, according to the Recovery and Resistance Programme. The only problem we heard was that INA and MOL decided not to build that refinery in Sisak but in Hungary. Does this mean that we're going to reroute these billions of kunas to Hungary because it's also all part of a Europe, and Europe when it makes a decision that it wants something in some area, then it's not about a mile, two or 50 kilometers to the left, and then it turns out that we're going to, that we're going to finance a biorefinery in Hungary, as far as I understand it. But let's go back to this strategy I said had been writing for so long that by the time it came before us, it was obsolete. Why is it out of date? Because the goals that we are setting here are the objectives that Europe, of which Europe has given up. We are witnessing today the fact that Europe has set new goals, that these objectives, as you said, will be adopted in the 7th month and that you will then be reviewing this Strategy. And who's normal, if he knows something's gonna happen in three or four months today, it doesn't calculate what's going on. We know that Europe is looking for more goals, and what do we know about it? By the fact that, for example, Germany and the Czech Republic are still 2016 and '17 respectively. brought this strategy. Why they brought it in 2016, '17.? So maybe it's so we can spend it by 2030. They spent 1/3 of their time, and they did one third of that time. These new guidelines that Europe is working on probably stemming from the fact that certain countries have started to understand what is happening. What is the main problem of this Strategy and the very presentation of this Strategy, in fact or a complete lack of understanding of what we present or this Strategy is just, as I said the Allanford written wishes, congratulations and greetings. It says right here, it's 103 to 250 billion kuna of investment. You colleagues will remember, a few months ago, there was the entire government here along with the prime minister, presenting what? It's a 60 billion-dollar aid from Europe. So it turns out that the 60 billion we might get from Europe are more important than the investment of 103 to 250 billion over the next 10 years. It's a message from this government. Or what they wrote here doesn't stand or we're going to invest that 103 billion or we're going to hire these 100,000 jobs.../incomprehensible/... to open up the new 100,000 jobs. Why am I afraid we're gonna open those 100,000 jobs? Because we don't know what we want. We keep waiting for Europe to give us orders on what we need to do and then to lower some of the funds so that we don't figure out if we've tried to do something. Because when you look at it, Europe knows what it's doing, I've said it a few times from this pay phone, Europe clearly knows what it's doing, and Europe has chosen the direction and it pushes, pushes, pushes, to reach it in the end. What does Europe want with this green technology, green energy, or green lifestyle? Europe wants the quality of its citizens' lives, and how will this be achieved, and what will happen next? Well, to do that, it's going to have to develop some new technology, it's going to develop these new technologies to make a new industry, it's going to stimulate the economy it has. The way our economy is and what we can encourage is said by the secretary of state in his speech. We have 48 entities of 11 grand inside Europe that are touched here. Of those 48, 26 of them participated in the debate. So first you have to have an economy to encourage it. What's the key to this, this document, and it's actually in other documents is self-sustainability. Croatia is less than 50% self-sustainable according to the latest reports, importing more than 50% of energy. My question, how much will we pay one day when that energy is just more expensive and expensive? We were talking here when it came to rebuilding that we were asking that the buildings that are being renovated be energy independent, that is to try to make them energy independent, that is to say, to implement the energy reconstruction of these buildings with a constructive one. The government clearly rejected it and said it couldn't be one project. My question, simply to you, how do you intend to achieve this if all the other things you do do do do not contain the elements you set for yourself here as goals? You have set goals here that are lower than what Europe advocates today, and tomorrow it will bring. As we concluded yesterday on the Committee, I fully agree that here all documents have been harmonised, from the Energy and Climate Plan adopted in 2019, the Energy Republic Strategy since 2020, but in 2019, and before 2020, respectively. The EU Commission published that European Green Deal. And we knew that. So if we know what someone wants to do, then I guess it would be logical to engage in that ultimate goal of theirs, rather than coughing for it and that's what's really Croatia's biggest problem. Croatia simply, as if it did not want to develop, I mean, a colleague on the board yesterday mentioned one information in the Strategy, so of course we will have a drop in emissions if our industry falls and if we ourselves predict with all the problems we know about demographics, that we will simply have 20% less people in Croatia than we have today. There you predict that 3 million 200 and 70 thousand people will live in Croatia, along with all the demographic strategies you bring that say it should not be so. Our problem is we don't know what we want with this country. What we want and how we want to develop is that key problem. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49287	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of whom the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49288	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, the preservation of the environment, although on the surface everyone keeps swearing in it is still a second-class topic in Croatia. See how the debate will be over soon today. And the development of global events shows that it's probably the main topic people are thinking about and looking for solutions. Energy efficiency, sustainable production and consumption, waste management, conservation of forests and water, dematerialisation of production, water and disposal, facing the consequences of climate change, modern cities and urbanism, are all current topics that can be transformed into very specific projects and policies from the general idea of environmental conservation. Environmental conservation also requires neighbouring, regional, European and global co-operation. In this regard, it can be an important link with our European and regional policies and with a fundamental attitude to support further European integration and joint projects with neighbouring countries. The decision seems to have been made in Europe. And there's been a lot of environmental destruction and life and the health of generations to come. As an integral part of the EU, Croatia is happily involved in achieving ambitious goals that are summed up on the basic and most ambitious of all, achieving climate neutrality by 2050. There is only one way that we should look at the green plan in Croatia, but use it. It's like a never-ending chance for a fresh start. Together a more successful, more modern and richer economy thus and society as a whole. In the coming years and decades, an unprecedented amount of money and various programmes for the adaptable Member State of the green economy will be available. For Croatia I'm sure it's not just green development, for us it's development as such. And that's why we don't have to wait again, think about the so far-made failures that we're almost without industry, certainly without one that provides a lot of work for qualified and educational workers, it's time to take advantage of a new opportunity. I could talk about this strategy in context that it's been a while, that it's been a long time, that there are certain shortcomings, but I don't want to. I want to talk about this strategy as an opportunity for Croatia. There are rare opportunities in life for you. When you take a chance, you take advantage, you step into the future. When you don't take advantage of her, she'll take advantage of someone else. What this crown has shown us is that our agriculture cannot feed close to one population a small country like Croatia. This coronary crisis has shown the risk of relying on tourism as a source of 1/5 of our GDP. Turning to common European policies of economic and social modernity, restoring our industry and agriculture on new foundations, working together on the idea of Europe as a global translator and model of sustainability. It may be the greatest chance to catch the connection with the most developed which is provided us with Croatian independence. See where Croatia is on all scales when we evaluate ourselves, at the bottom. This is one opportunity, and so we cry out from this pay phone, cry out and from our place, wake up, the opportunity should be used. The whole series of goals Croatia needs to achieve is on that path. For me, one of the most important is the one that leads to climate neutrality, and one of the first steps in achieving this goal is to create a tailored and enforceable strategy for achieving climate neutrality. The next target is the new industry. It is the transformation of our main flaw, the lack of industry to the advantage by encouraging the accelerated development of the most modern industry as part of the green plan and climate neutrality. Is this seen in this strategy, in national and development strategies, and in the plan of recovery and resilience? I'm afraid not enough. And what I have to admit to you regardless of what I want to say affirmably all the time and look into the future what I'm a little bit worried about, and to be gentle like this, and that's to look at all these three strategies that they have to be coordinated with each other, I'm afraid that's not the case. And when we discussed the national development strategy on this subject, I said that the ecological energy transition for climate neutrality was processed in the wrong way. Climate change will affect tourism, sea level, human health, animals and plants, water economy, agriculture, fisheries, mariculture and other activities and a general way of life. This requires, simply looking for new management mechanisms, new mechanisms for planning climate mitigation measures, while at the same time adapting to the changes that are happening. The changes will happen with us and without us. There will be changes in the labour market, look at them now, which should be managed rather than let them happen on their own. The strategy I'm afraid of together is very little touching. The next goal is green energy and energy efficiency with a key element in further increasing the share of renewables in energy consumption in Croatia. The basis for this must be, simply a modern and functional infrastructure with modern energy networks and storage and energy distribution technologies. The modern and developed railway network is also part of such a plan and achievement of objectives. Research and development will be key to fostering innovation research in industry, agriculture, transport, transport and energy, so that research and development must take place both as part of public and private scientific institutions and as part of public and private companies. So, it's just things that won't make any progress, if we don't do it, we'll still be scratching on the most developed ones, and I'm sure there's none of us that wants to be around them. Local food production with organic and sustainable production at all stages, including packaging and distribution, must also enter the objectives of low-carbon development. The next item is green traffic along vehicles with small or zero exhaust emissions, the development of smart and technologically advanced transport systems in populated areas and the increased use of railways and waterways. And when I say it like this, it sounds good, we can all agree, but let's take a look at the reality. We ourselves know that reality is not like that, and what we need to do must be done to make it so. It's a very important idea for me personally, of course, because of my profession, which is green construction and spatial planning. It should also first adopt a state spatial development plan and, beyond that, the necessary strategy. What is the goal is to move fully to green, spatial planning and urbanism, to build cities in line with sustainability requirements and climate neutrality. This includes, of course, continuing to intensify the energy reconstruction programme for public and private buildings and houses. It should not be forgotten, neither should the promotion of the purchase and use of construction materials produced from recycled or reused raw materials be forgotten. I've said it several times and I repeat it this time, we'll have collapsed buildings and houses in the area of Bania and Banovina, all that material can't end up in waste, it has to be recycled and it can be reused as new raw materials. And that's our chance, that's our chance to develop the economy, that's our chance to develop the industry. I'm yelling at who knows which way, let's not miss the chance. What we need from this strategy, we need, first of all, to bring our strategies together, so it would be good if we didn't drive each other in our tracks, but to get along with it, but behind this we need to have clear action plans. Finally, we need to say what we want, as we see Croatia in 2030, of course we know what kind of Croatia we see in 2050 is 2030 there, it's around the corner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49289	The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and HSU, a pardon of the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Vucilović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49290	Thank you very much. Honorable chairman, respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We often get into a parliamentary debate with documents that are quite general in nature, but I have to notice that this one in certain parts is a bit of a fairy tale. So everything moves towards finding that the Republic of Croatia can and should contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and in accordance with a number of ratified international agreements. In doing so, I must stress the impact and the share of the Republic of Croatia on the global variety of total greenhouse gas emissions is minor and slightly negligible. So RH according to its state in the economy, and mainly in the climate industry has an impact that is small or none, but we will spend more than 100 billion i.e. more than 1% of GDP to implement this strategy. I'll remind you, in the Republic of Croatia there is no one-way teaching in schools, in the City of Osijek there is not enough room in kindergarten to enroll all children, there is no state homes for pensioners, there is not much to be done by our own needs, but our priority, among other things, is to stick a Styrofoam on buildings. No one has anything against these goals that are set here, but we as a sovereign state always need to take care of the goals that are our priority. When I read these documents, sometimes I feel like I live in another galaxy, not 220km from Zagreb, and I will explicitly quote one part of the vision and confirm it, and it says: "Agriculture will become more attractive for young and educated farmers in restored villages of diverse climate-resistant cultures." I fully support it, but if any of those who wrote this vision were recently in one of the Slavonian villages and perhaps in Banovina that is closer because the situation is exactly the same there. We in five Slavonian counties have over 100,000 abandoned houses with belonging economic facilities. Our rural spaces are empty and this is already a security issue and a problem. Agriculture and food processing industry productivity is well below the EU average. It's all devastating, but before that, we can't close our eyes and write fairy-tale visions that are highly questionable achievements. We should still focus on what's important. We've heard that CO2 emissions have been dropping steadily since 1990. And in all sectors. What grows during that period is the amount of waste. This tells us clearly about priorities and areas of action where we must move immediately. And yesterday we heard about waste management centres, polemics that are related to the same, complaints, dissatisfaction of citizens, and maybe we should finally stimulate some other ways of JLS to focus on primary waste selection because we have a number of positive examples, but unfortunately those negative ones are much more and I think this should be a priority in the coming years. What I pointed out yesterday on the board is a devastating fact very little is said about, which is the projection of the number of inhabitants in the Republic of 2050. which we see in this strategy, which says that we will have 3 million and 200 thousand inhabitants, or millions of people less than on the last census. Did the Republic of Croatia sign a capitulation before the demographic devastation? I'm asking myself that here in this high house openly and clearly. On climate, we discuss sustainable development every week in some context. Where's the demographic? When did we have some kind of document, a strategy about demographic recovery and demographic recovery? Nothing. Zero, zero, to quote the prime minister. However, as the denominator grows smaller macroeconomic indicators are getting better, the population is falling faster even than GDP. Tragic, but unfortunately true. To become even weirder in this document when drawing up projections of demographic movements, it is assumed that the fertility rate will grow and the eviction will slow down and we have the meaning of 2050. One million people less. Strange math, but I let the authors deal with it. It is also noted that energy costs will rise and this will result in a decline in economic activity and lower employment in certain sectors. It is also said that in the first year there will be 40,000 new employees and we have heard from the respected secretary of state that this figure goes up to 100,000 new jobs. But how many jobs will be shut down by the implementation of this strategy doesn't say, and I haven't even heard in response to the respected secretary of state, which means we haven't made a projection about that very important number. It is crucial to make sectoral analyses and see how the implementation of this strategy will affect certain economic branches so that economic operators can adapt and transform their activities. In addition, all of this is necessary to connect both our educational institutions and our entire education system in order not to speak again here is our education schools staff for non-existent occupations etc.. This must be a cross-cutting document, and that must mean that all ministries are involved, and most of all in those parts. It should also be borne in mind that, as it says in this document, the rise in energy prices will have a negative impact on citizens' consumption. Personal consumption is an important component of our GDP and should be taken into account, particularly in the Ministry of Finance. It is also said that a whole series of European and international institutions will be reported on the implementation of this strategy. What about HS, why won't you report us? I guess the HS should also include that this strategy should not just remain a dead letter on paper because we often bring new strategies, and that we have not done an analysis of what was done under those previous strategies, which we have achieved our goals, which we have not and why we have not, and that is not the practice that more or less all ministries are carrying out. And finally, one part about protecting nature that attracted my attention, and one of the goals must be to create guidelines on wind-electric sensitivity zones, to create maps of sensitivity of the Republic of Croatia to birds, bats, sea mammals, and within the high sensitivity zone to avoid planning of wind power plants. This goes into the category believe it or not. This comes from the ministry run by the minister who allowed the wind-defying Krš-Paden installation of wind power plants in completely new locations with completely modified specifications without making a new environmental impact study. Category believe it or not. In this context, we can see this strategy as a set of beautiful desires of questionable realization, but unfortunately also a drive for various malversions that we have witnessed so far. It is therefore extremely important to report on the implementation of this strategy in order to minimise this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49291	The next Club of Representatives will be the HSS and HSU on behalf of whom the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49292	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. This is one of the strategies that should be of paramount importance for the Republic of Croatia, for the development of the Republic of Croatia, for our future. But as I have, over the past 20 years, met with many consultants, both hosts and parties, with the making of various strategies, this strategy is nothing different than most strategies in which copy traps are mainly used, good wishes are written, and at least we have scientific papers, scientific research that are the basis of strategy-making. It is also the case here, by reading the Strategy, I can't say that it's different, that it's made on scientific methods, in research, and even in researching what others have done and written in view of today's information availability and opportunities to use papers from around the world, I don't see that we used it here. There is an urgent need for action in climate change mitigation everywhere, and the action is weak. The fact is that we, the Republic of Croatia, are such a small polluter in the EU area that we are almost insignificant in this strategy, but this does not mean that we, as a country, are not developing in this direction and that we are not setting ourselves goals that we want to reach to keep up with new technologies, with new trends, despite the fact that we have so many young, still educated people, although our education is in a crash, today our children are finishing high school today, that they do not know the table of multiplication and reading, which is tragic for our education, but regardless of which there are children who want to be educated, who are investigating and who, despite our education system, are exceptional people, exceptional competitors in various competitions around the world. Our idea of reducing CO2 emissions is mostly electric vehicles. Well, it says here in one order that by 2050 we should have 61% of electronic vehicles. No one wonders where electronic energy is produced that fills the batteries of those vehicles. We have 7 thermopower plants, we have a Plomin that uses stone coal, they're mostly on the mule. Is it pure electronic energy and are our clean vehicles and are they CO2 emissions released? No, they're not. I think they're worse than a fossil fuel vehicle. The production of batteries also requires a large amount of CO2 emissions and we could list a lot more. It's agriculture in our country that I don't say, stegmatized by 11.4% of national greenhouse gas emissions. I don't know where that information is based, on what, but it's on scientific research, as far as I can tell. It's said to be 29% of that from artificial fertilisers and 46% from livestock farming. We've destroyed livestock farming, our livestock farming is minimal that it's never been smaller and I don't believe we have so much contaminants since cattle farming. Here, yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture, I asked if we knew the balance of materials used to produce greenhouse gases in the cultivation of war cultures. So in growing hectares of corn, how much does it bind to CO2, how much did we spend on greenhouse gases to produce it? Whether it's positive, negative, whether it's a rat's crop, as well as a forest is something that creates a flood, unfortunately, we don't know, and we know how photosynthesis works, how carbon is converted. What has startled me with forests, forestry, here, I'll quote, says forest resources need to be managed by maintaining and improving their general useful functions, protecting biodiversity, and raising forest resilience to climate change. Special incentive for the use of wood products in the sector.../incomprehensible/... forestry. What are we doing today? We've raised the price of hot wood so much that we're forcing people to heat on gas instead of heating on biomass. The summation of households, their cost of biomass, so it's a direct reduction of CO2 emissions, but the wood is used somewhere else and it goes into export in the form of... So now we're even pulling branches out of the woods and we're grinding it into a slice and we're exporting it from Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the land use sector, the use of the forest in terms of 681, I also quote, I'm free to say, nonsense. The trend of deforestation reduction has been noted, as the biggest reason is that, imagine, the lack of implementation of the prescribed forest management practices on all forest surfaces during the Homeland War and during the wartime, wartime. It says war and the consequences of war caused a disturbance in the structure of forest ingredients and led to a reduction in the growth of forests. 25 years after the end of the war, we are all aware that the masters of Croatian forests, as far as total memories are concerned, destroys forests, forest ingredients that will be very difficult to restore, and we are all aware that these forests are creating a CO2 sink. I think she remembers the forest was never bigger. Has anyone asked Croatian forests well that you gentlemen are working on this strategy? No one asks, Croatian forests are a state within which they are lords, I cannot say that masters are destroying all possible measures and resources that Croatian forests have. Renewable energy sources, we've worked very little on it, almost nothing but wind power plants. I guess it's modern today probably and lucrative for some other people. Hydropower plants, renewables, flow-reversible, small power plants, I know a man from Stara Subocka who has been struggling for 4-5 years with a state apparatus in the Republic of Croatia, issuing hundreds of various permits to place on the river Subočka turbine in a place where the mill has a concession for 100 years. The man went crazy with all that, and today he didn't join the network to sell electricity from his turbine. Sun power plants, as many roofs in the Republic of Croatia as we have owners willing to install a solar power plant on their roof. I've got a roof of my own that I'd love to, but I can't invest 30,000 euros in a project like that and wait 20 years to make it worth my while. What did the state do about it? Nothing. Geothermal sources, we have in Podravina a huge geothermal source that can never be put into a function that can create a lot of energy, pure energy, but obviously we have no knowledge or we have it and we don't let it manifest itself. Here I read a thought on the Internet yesterday, telling it to the state where the sea is clearer than the people, and it seems that's the way it is with us. When we get to waste, waste management is our painful wound we've been fighting for a long time, and then when we talk about this CO2 show every day in my Kutina, I have a view of the Roma settlement where the tires, the waste and everything and the city government are burned, and the state doesn't do anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49293	The next Club of Representatives is that green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Sandra Bencic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49294	Thank you. Actually, no, the glasses need to stay, and the mask goes down. So yesterday on the Environment Committee we discussed this strategy and what I said there as some conclusion I'm going to repeat here. So, this strategy stems from what the prime minister himself announced, which is that Croatia will have so-called Two-thirds of the way towards energy transition, which is a path that I would characterise as a path with a fig in my pocket because it intends to invest equally in the exploration and exploitation of fossil fuels as well as in renewable sources. So we have one picture towards the EU that we transmit in a way that we are in line with the green plan, but on the other hand we still have business as usual. Unlike some colleagues who spoke here, even yesterday and today, I believe that neither the world nor Croatia has room for "but". "But" we could speak in the '80s, but in the '90s we weren't. Unfortunately, we're only aware of that in 2020. There is no "but" if we want our children to have at least the approximately quality of life in the years in which we are now, at least about what we now have. So we see this transition to a low-carbon and then post-carbon economy as an opportunity for Croatia, primarily as an opportunity. However, in order for this to really be an opportunity, I must say that I agree with my colleague, Vucilovic, we must make a transition that is just. In order to make a transition that is just and in which those who have less do not end up paying anymore, we should really have sectoral analyses of the impact of this strategy, so on both jobs and on the types of jobs that will be done to actually manage it because the goal is to manage it. The goal is to administratively time-out from individual areas, while at the same time creating new jobs in other areas. So what we as the Green-Left Block Club are looking for is an urgent but just transition to low-carbon development and recovery as the only way and the only possibility of solving the climate crisis by also looking for new green jobs to actually compensate for those losses that will arise in some other sectors. For this reason, we have repeatedly mentioned to you when it comes to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan that we need to see clearly where we are going to lose, so the sectors where we lose jobs and how we compensate them through projects and investments in other areas. Unfortunately, you can't see it in either the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, either, or here. So what we also expect, we expect, as the only developments, to adopt the zero emission scenario, so zero emissions by 2050, so full decarbonisation, and we think that just next decade it is crucial to achieve this goal by 2050, and that the maximum decarbonisation rate must be precisely in the next 10 years. I'll tell you something because very often we say Croatia has a small contribution, in pollution and CO2 emissions we are small. The world largely consists of small countries, Europe consists of a significant part of small countries, and when each small country adopts this same strategy in the pocket, what they would get is actually a complete ecological disaster through the 30th. I actually wanted to say a little bit about some scenarios and how things actually look. We often hear here that gas is a transit fuel, so let's talk about it a little bit. So the gas in recent years has an ever-increasing impact on the climate, much more than previously believed. New research into the effects of methane warming proves that gas cannot be seen as a transit fuel anymore. The International Energy Agency published a report this week setting out a radical, radical reduction in fossil fuels including gas needed to achieve the goal of limiting global warming to below 1.5 degrees that we have established by the Paris Agreement. In particular, they said that research and development of new oil and gas fields must be stopped this year, this year. I'll remind you, we're issuing oil and gas research licenses this year for the next 30 years. And that's why I think it was a perfectly reasonable and balanced request for a green-left block when we asked that the permits start to be issued with a fixed year, so we can't issue any more at 30. Every year because we go far beyond 2050 than the year 2040, so we were looking for 2040, the International Energy Agency says this year. Natural gas emissions increase on average at a rate of 3% per year and release abundant CO2 emissions not only during combustion but throughout the whole cycle, so from exploitation of transport, transport to, to, to use itself. So, since it's mostly made up of methane it's about extremely powerful greenhouse gas that the note bene has a greater impact on global warming than CO2, 86 times, and we're talking about gas being a transition fuel. So new large infrastructure projects that include fossil fuels like gas such as the terminal for ingested natural gas, they are unsustainable. We see that there is no other phase of development in the PP terminal in Krk or the construction of a land terminal, which we welcome, but we know that these plans exist, in the end they are on the priority strategic list of EU strategic projects, as far as we know, deny us if it is not. I would be happy to, but I am not talking about the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, but about the list of EU strategic projects. So it's a project that we have to leave if we want to, if we really want to achieve these goals. Furthermore, energy security is often mentioned as an argument and this is an absolutely crucial issue. We can't get into a position of energy uncertainty. However, according to the European Commission's calculation of every 1% improvement in energy efficiency, for example in construction, gas imports to the EU fall by 2.6%, so it is very well worth it, and it is worth it. When we talk about energy security, we want to highlight another important, important item. The key item is the issue of energy poverty in Croatia. So, we now have this production that we have, so in a large part that is dependent on the import of fossil fuels, we have one of the higher rates of energy poverty in the EU. Therefore, one of the clearly stated general objectives of the strategy should be to combat energy poverty, energy recovery of residential and public buildings and energy efficiency measures in line with EU directives. We also believe that it is an unambitious plan to only 60 percent drive by 2050. It'll be electric. So Croatia has a great opportunity to invest in research, development and then production, in fact, create new jobs in this sector and be electrified in the area of transport long before. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to list all the facts that are related to the question of low-carbon development, but hopefully I'll catch up with you later on in each individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49295	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Vucilović, what is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238, because in this high house, he's trying to deny the right to an opinion if he's contrary to Mrs. It's a ben. I'll always use the word but I'll always be against exclusion and against one-brains even if it's green.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49297	Of course, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a warning, and everything you said stands. So that's why Parliament is, that's why there is a parliamentary democracy that everyone can say their position without fear of being resented if, of course, it's said in an adequate way, and I think it is. The next club of MPs will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Boris will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49298	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I want to say something about the proposal for a low-carbon development strategy by 2030 with a view to 2050. on behalf of the HDZ Club, which supports the adoption of this strategy in such a proposal as we have been presented. I will also try to explain why, not in the way that we have had the opportunity here today to listen to our colleagues from other parties, from the opposition, speaking of the document as a document that we have had in this mandate but also in previous mandates and of course, these discussions are always quite similar. It's not a problem to find a specific detail that will be enough for us to say something we want to say or we won't support it because it doesn't fit our visions. I think that this document that's been working in four steps and I think three prime ministers have come to the Parliament's final, let's say the form and it's our day to argue that we bring it in because we also have certain obligations under the Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone Layer. When we talk about global climate change, it's obviously one of mankind's greatest challenges today. We also know the leading causes of climate change, mostly increases in greenhouse gas emissions then increased fossil fuel combustion and intensive agriculture. He's cutting through the woods. What bothers us in this process? We know that we are a small country, that there are about 4 million of us, and we have heard the number of subjects to which we refer, let's say that this strategy is approximately 0.5% of what we have in the EU. And it's certainly not too many and it's not insignificant no matter what we think of ourselves. What is the impact of our behavior on global climate change? When we want to deal with tourism we are the ones who say Croatia is clean, it has the most beautiful sea, the most sun, the most beautiful air etc. And so we all agree and say come to us in Croatia to rest, to bloat the good air, to bathe in clean sea and rest. When we come to the debate on this subject, we say that we are the worst at all, that we don't know how to do politics that we know nothing about green policies, that we are not any initial positions and that we are mostly here a little power-resisting about it. We talk in different ways. And to create an impression of a document that defines us in the next 10 or 30 years, surely it is not easy for us to draw such a picture that will be perfect and say in 10 years we just hit 2020 exactly what we're going to look like 2030. When I look at myself 30 years ago at this time I think I was getting ready for some high school graduation, today we're giving speeches and talking about a document that's supposed to set us up in 2050, God let us all experience 2050 so that we can evaluate if we're interested in this document, whether we hit it, missed it, or were anywhere near it. We are not forbidden, which some songs say, and dream, dream, but I think we put on paper what is important, beautifully divided into six areas which we need to worry about, what goals, measures taken to have certain achievements i.e. The results are also being discussed because if we want to talk about sustainable development all the time just as a story of something that's imaginary and sounds so good, you look smart then we can talk about it at that level. But I who come from the island know what sustainable development means to me, how to use resources to stay for some other generations, and that today we live in the best way possible. And when we look at this strategy or our initial positions, but not only on the islands, but also in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia, our positions are not as smooth as they want to show themselves here. So I said and we keep saying we're a clean country, we don't have a chimney I don't know how many times we're talking about industry. I'm sure when we talk about it we'd like to have more, but we don't, and that's the truth, we're not anywhere near Germany or France. When it says 0.5, it's certain that we're not polluting this air like maybe it's happening in a little larger cities just some larger states. So we have our specifics, now we live with these specifics. It is said here through general objectives to increase the security of energy supply, sustainability and energy, i.e. provide an increase in energy availability and a reduction in energy dependence. How to be against it? We're doing everything, we're starting to develop in a sustainable way, in terms of i.e. renewable energy sources. Are we even beyond what we planned today? We did. Why do we have a 36% problem in 2030, then something higher in 2050?? I don't think there should be a problem. If in a very short time we have reached certain values, and the last we have come from all EU countries is the last, what have we brought down these discussions here? On the affairs of a windman, forgetting that we have them now, I don't know worse than Senj down to Dubrovnik on tens, on the Chinese alone, here I will say only in the Vratnik space invest 200 million euros in their wind farm. It's not small funds, it's a billion-and-a-half kuna to get a 20-acre wind power plant there that's been going on and on for 10 years to make it happen for a while. And those processes are moving on. Why am I talking about islands? We have them here as smart, in 2019 we put them in the Island Act and we're working on it. I believe every leader, here's the election in a week, everyone's competing with some kind of program. Today the solar energy or solar energy on the islands is reality, let's look at Vis, let's look at Cres, tomorrow Rab, Krk etc., it becomes reality, in the next 5 years, you'll see the number of islands that will have them. Broadband Internet, here's my island Rab, the first in our county. I'm looking at our older people, or who don't really understand technology, and we're coming in with one thin, and we're coming in on one sticky tape, and he's surprised, and he's used to the copper wire, so what are you bringing in my house? So people have to accept a little bit of technology, and they also have to accept what the state is offering to tell them that life is better, more comfortable and that we use the benefits of our entry and entry into the RU, but also what's ahead of us, the modern world, modern society. Does this strategy talk about it? Yeah. And now we can do it through these areas of industry, from waste, from the general transport consumption sector to develop infinitely, we'd be talking about it for an hour, but if we've made the shifts, I'm back on the islands, the waste, there's no island from which we no longer drive to the mainland. In a few years, we're going to have waste-free islands, all the way, every day. That's what we pay for, that's what the state costs. The state pays. But there are no more bags flying in the air, polluting the sea, destroying the environment, they're gone. It's almost in the largest part of the dump. Those who are even faster than us, such as the island of Krk, who think faster, who have already begun, are even further than that but there are those who reach them and that is our task. That every island tomorrow has this broadband Internet, that we have solar energy, that we're energy independent. 2 or 5 ME on one island, all year long you've been heating up on one solarian all together, 9000, there are small people, but we can all get warm and we're getting a little independent. So the value of this document that he was able to say are the objectives of 2030, which we have to look at in 2050, and we can say that, and I think as a state we have what's most important, fiscal capacity where the sources are listed to happen. Those aren't small funds. 1.5% of GDP is about 30 gg, a year 5.7 to 10 billion in that space. Is that the money we can use? We can. Of course it can and should happen, but for that I say, it needs more seriousness in the debate and not I don't like whether we're going to have oil or not. as some kind of energy in 2050, we will, where we say that we will have 50 or 60% of cars on alternative drive, means that 30 and 40% of us will still be on a specific drive that is not alternative, and it will happen, it will not be avoided in Germany or in France or in any country because it is in front of us and it will not disappear... but that we have a strategy to reduce, reduce, that's why we have it, and that's why this document is valuable, and that's why we're going to support it because it doesn't say anything bad, it just draws the way to 2030 and by 2050, our behavior and the obligation of those who sit here in 4 or 5 years to look at this document. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if it's not good, let it adjust, there are passing times, so let's change but it's not bad, it's supposed to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49299	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, and the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49300	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Low Carbon Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 with a view to 2050. When you have a chance at Parliament in Parliament to discuss or when the 2021 strategy is tomorrow 2030, we have to look at the 2050 view. I, on several occasions, cried out from this pay phone for this document because we need this document as a starting point for everything else. I'm going to continue my individual debate with a sentence that I've completed my debate on behalf of the club. Green development, industrial development, economic development is an opportunity for the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia will either take that opportunity or remain at the beginning, this is one of the opportunities to get out of the way, to recognize that moment of funds that will come and make good and good use of them. And I'll refer to two topics. One topic is the restoration behind the earthquake, the other topic is, of course, what is very close to me and that is spatial planning. The earthquake hit the Republic of Croatia, the capital hit and one of the worst parts of the Republic of Croatia, which is Banija/Banovina. Behind that earthquake there will be some buildings, the question is how, what, and how, today I read in the paper that they're looking for projectors for 3,000 new houses, if we're looking for designers, out there somewhere in 2030 we'll be the first to work, but I won't be an evil prophet, I want to say something else. So that building material can be used, recycled and reused. It must not happen that the construction waste created by the destruction of buildings in the area or the city of Zagreb, there is already a new hill on Jakushevec, and in the area of Banija/Banovina, we turn it into waste to say no garbage. It can turn into a new value. By turning this into a new value in line with all the strategies, we are in line with everything that the EU has seen in its scenarios, but do you know what we have done with it? We've opened up a kind of economy, we've created new jobs. This strategy speaks of 10000 jobs, paper can endure anything but you have to recognize what jobs they are and what can happen and what can be done there. We have until 2050 to decarbonize all buildings, which means all buildings are energy efficient. These buildings, in order to become energy-efficient, have someone work and have to install some material. So the construction material industry is one of the things that is extremely important and that can be recognized and that can be recognized as a step. When we started to do energy efficiency, and when the buildings of public purposes checked in, you know what our problem was, the Styrofoam, the styrofoam wasn't on the market, you couldn't buy the Styrofoam, and I won't even tell you what the labour force was. So if we really want this strategy to not leave a dead letter on paper, to turn this strategy into something, we already have a chance. This opportunity will either be used or used by someone else, and then we'll be at the beginning and we'll wonder how someone else is doing it successfully as opposed to us. And the second topic is the topic of spatial planning. When someone says green spatial planning, then of course I made a joke and I said it didn't mean that we'd be doing green buildings, but it means that we're going to go different in spatial planning, that we're going to be the last drop of blood to protect every green surface that is. The green area is extremely valuable for urban development, but when new buildings are planned then plan them in a way that you need to know everything, all climate conditions, there is a co-worker who certainly knows more about it than I do, but when buildings are planned and when you put them into space then you have to take care of the number of sunny days, you have to take care of the winds that blow, you have to take care of different climate conditions that this building uses minimal energy. These are already familiar things, some other countries do. I, of course, try all the time and talk about this strategy affirmatively, she needs us. But we are in 2021, there in 2013, we said that by 2017 we would bring a new state spatial plan that should be the basis for all this together. The state plan hasn't even D yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49301	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49302	Dear colleagues, thank you for actually pointing to what is important in your presentation. Croatia is mostly late in the adoption of strategies, in the implementation we have mostly fully scheduled. The plans are done in such a way that most citizens, and then units of local and regional self-government and other competent authorities, are not sufficiently involved in their creation and ultimately missing results. You have touched on a topic that is particularly touching me as Zagreb, which is the fact that there is already a new hill on Jakushevec, there is no question of how the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb will be negatively reflected on the waste management system because there are actually no conditions for the implementation of the reconstruction at this time, and I see no thought about how we will organise it. Do you have any views or suggestions on this subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49303	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49304	Thank you very much. You know for some things you don't need to be some big visionary, for some things you just have to watch what some other cities or some other countries have done. When the renovation started, the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb did not go systematically from the state level, regardless of what Mr Plenkovic announced. Tomorrow will be 14 months since the earthquake in Zagreb, 251 decisions have been made, if the pace continues, I am taking the free period to start a new year, it will take 34 years. Just to make decisions without talking about this all the time. So when you have such a large amount of construction material, not to say construction waste, then some other countries have made the following, they're turning it into some new value. So, we have Zagreb roads that can make construction waste from those edges, can do different prefabricates, not to say that they can work and prefabricate which can be statistically acceptable and built into buildings, you just need to know and want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49305	The next debate will be a respected representative of Villa Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49306	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. I will speak most of this speech from the perspective of agriculture, given that I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture, and it certainly concerns me, and within that very short part that you have donated to agriculture in this extensive strategy, and I think it is summed up and this is the reality that a man of the sea could agree with even though I am, in a very large way, a total layman, but what I was interested in making sense and it's very summed up, but I can't begin this exposure without saying that environmental activists today in action in front of the Parliament are still starting and their main title is that the strategy of low-carbon development of the Republic of Croatia that this strategy is a complete failure for people and climate. Of course, all of what my colleague Sandra has already mentioned is said, and I'm going to kind of tie it to this speech of mine, or an analysis of what's being said in the agriculture section. The positive impact of the application of measures on total greenhouse gas emissions in the agricultural sector is reflected through a direct reduction of methane emissions. Yeah, we agree. And in this change in the feeding of cattle to make less methane, and pigs as well as in the composition of animal food. That's certainly necessary, and that's the part that Mr. Lenart was talking about, that drew out those 11.4%, and that's what a large part of the issue of livestock is. The livestock that I'm learning about on that board is as bad as it is in bad shape and as much as it's been reduced. However, when you put it parallel to really giving concessions that will continue to mean this year and the year they take and for three years that our drilling and gas concessions will continue to mean until '55. And '56. Then that thing comes really into question. And then it seems, despite all of this, especially Banija, as counterpart Mrak Taritas Banija slash Banovina says, that this is not what we insist on, but it is Banija that can be a viewing area, even the action plan that you know very well, because in this, the action plan for the ecological development of agriculture in Zagreb is fantastic, made by Sonja Karoglan Todorovic with the world's top consultant who, of course, you know Darko Znaor and this is fantastic and can be applied at this moment and those parts that have suffered that there really have been progressed along with the Agron Faculty and that there are really doing national research on which you are saying this creation of the potential for increasing the carbon base, that all the agricultural systems are being considered. Expansion of fertility by higher participation of legominoses or pods, all of which are listed there precisely, improving the way organic fertilisers are used, green fertilisers, agrosuming, that forests are consciously and bushes work around the crop site and that biodiversity is maintained. It's all possible to do, and in that case we can only then say that we are doing an emergency but just transition to low-carbon development and recovery which is the only possible path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49307	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Davor Naji.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49308	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, dear, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, here I am going to discuss this debate since a lot of things have already been said to cut short for some things, but at first I would like to say that this debate will also be held with some optimistic desire for this strategy to actually be one that will still be as much tried. I believe that in the end, of course there will be a variety of other debates about the implementation details, but most of the strategies in Croatia actually end up just staying a dead letter on paper and hopefully not with this. In the implementation of the strategy itself, I hope that the cost side will also be taken into account, therefore, that while we are doing all these changes towards the low-carbon economy, it is nevertheless considered not to be too much of an impact on citizens and business entities in a cost-effective way, and that, for example, when we talk about building new objects to encourage them to still be more energy-efficient objects than what is prescribed, to encourage it through tax reliefs. For example, when buildings are renovated, especially after the earthquake, but there are many other buildings that need to be renovated in the Republic of Croatia if energy standards are significantly raised than they need to be given tax reliefs. I need to think in this energy direction, I'm glad that geothermal energy is mentioned here, which I know that part of the local self-government unit certainly has, has interest. I would also like to take into account, as far as energy production is concerned, that nuclear power plants are not excluded because this is still the most environmentally acceptable form of energy production and the most cost-effective for citizens. We also see this by moving prices in countries that have them and those countries that don't have them. So here Croatia definitely stands well on these renewable energy sources, we have hydropower plants to invest in even more definitely. We have this Sava project, which has been spoken of to power plants for decades, and I hope that it will also be realised in the future because electricity consumption will certainly grow in the future and we need to raise production capacities further. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49309	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49310	Thank you. You have stated that, of course, your right to be nuclear energy is purest, so I just wanted to ask you if it means that you are advocating the extension of the work of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, and do you know that with the production and extension of the work of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant then comes the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to store nuclear waste, that the place is intended for this Trade Mountain, that the Krško Nuclear Power Plant itself is in the thorny area, which we must have clearly established last year, and that the Trade Mountain in the area of Bania is also not only on a thorny area but in the area where soil liquefaction is now taking place, or the ground is literally converted into liquid soil, which is one of the difficult consequences of the earthquakes that occurred there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49311	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49312	So, yes, we are for nuclear energy for the reasons I cited during the debate. As far as the waste is concerned, we should really consider whether it is the most appropriate location or looking for someone else, however, the fact that other forms of electricity production that we currently have also generate waste that, or some other way, let's say byproducts, for example when we talk about thermal power plants that also disrupt the quality of human health. So when we look at energy generation in this sense, except maybe hydropower plants are more or less polluting everything else in some way, now everything actually depends on how much we have risk ratios and benefits from it, and nuclear power plants have proved extremely reliable in Europe so far and still holds low electricity costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49313	Thank you. Next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wanted to report to my colleague about the nuclear power plant when you've already opened the topic because, of course, the waste management of Croatia has to worry about it because it's the co-owner of Krško Nuclear Central, and the alternative for care is in Krško and there, of course, it's a more expensive variant and it has its own negative elements as regards the very proximity of the City of Zagreb, Samobor, St. Sunday, etc., which is your opinion in this respect? I'm saying you said you need to look at where that waste would possibly be if it wasn't this chosen location, where it should be. Do you then advocate to be there in Krškom near the City of Zagreb?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49315	The answer of the esteemed representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49316	So I think Krško's been there for decades at that location, I think more or less that all of us living in the whole area are aware that it exists there, won't disappear so quickly. But on the other hand, I also think there's nothing to be afraid of. I think even if there were some research into citizens' trust in Slovenia, the most trust in that nuclear power plant was actually people living near it, so I think that fear of it is unfounded. And yet on the other hand, I stress that this cost component should be looked out for citizens because we have a situation like one France and Germany that is neighbouring countries, one country has nuclear power plants the other has put out and now Germany has the most expensive electricity in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49317	Thank you very much. We are now going to the final presentations of clubs and will be the first to be the Green-Left bloc representative club in the name of which the respected representative Sandra Bencic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49318	Thank you. Here, finally, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club, I would like to say that our conclusion on this strategy is insufficient ambition and given that we have been told of some other strategies that we can submit proposals for promotion, we will certainly send what we believe should be entered into that strategy as targets. Our first request is and we will explain it to you and send it a clear date and years of closing the thermal power plant on coal, so full phase out of coal. So, countries within the EU and these countries that have their own coal, their coals work out in the next five years. So, I think that those of us who don't have that problem are our resources, but we're importing it so that it shouldn't actually be a problem for us to determine some kind of five-year-old to seven-year-old phase-out period for coal. After that, we believe that it is necessary to clearly limit the year of termination of the exploration and exploitation of fossil fuels in such a way as to determine now that all the permits that are added for research and exploitation cannot be passed in 2040. Furthermore, we are also looking for a much greater ambition in terms of electricity traffic, the ambition we are looking for is not just not looking at the goal, and in effect in terms of 60% we will or 70% we will, or 90% we will, but also the plan that we will be doing in terms of creating new jobs. And that's what we've been repeating all along and why we consider this a huge opportunity for Croatia. A huge opportunity that we are no longer at the beginning, that we are not the last at or at the bottom of the EU scale after the waste, that we are not at the loss of water in pipes, that we are not at all at the beginning. And I think this could be the turnaround if we really decided to commit ourselves seriously to it. When spoken and mentioned here that 1.5% of GDP should be invested in decarbonisation, 1.5% of GDP, the first is not much since our goal is literally saving lives, living heads because the planet will survive, we will not, so 1.5% of GDP. When I was two years ago at a conference in America about a green new deal then a financial adviser to the German Chancellor said exactly that, 1.5% of GDP at EU level is enough for decarbonisation by 2050. At that level, they were counting. But when we say it's 1.5% of GDP, we can't look at it as a cost, it's an investment, it's not going to work out that 1.5% of GDP, and we're not going to set it on fire, so it's going to blow up. These are investments in better energy infrastructure, better infrastructure for municipal services, these are huge investments in research and development if we plan this wisely. So these are investments in creating really better and better jobs than occasional seasonal jobs in tourism, so this is a huge opportunity and let's not look at it as a cost. It's an investment, only now we're not going to have any more investments in this and this and these areas than we're going to reroute them to another. So we've spent 1.5% of GDP or 3% on anything. Now we'll spend more time on other things. But in order for that to be the case, we have to plan an entire cycle from investing in research and development to producing commercialisation of these products and placing them on the market, not only Croatian but also European, and that can be our great opportunity. And that's why I'm sorry that we didn't plan it that way in detail in the NPOO, I hope that it will be done through some sectoral strategies because that link is unfortunately not there. It's just that we want to have some sort of final exit. And that's not ambitious enough. Here, a little more ambition and more faith that this might actually be a great opportunity for us. [[Intruder Raine: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49319	Thank you very much. The next final presentation will be on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club and will be delivered by the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49320	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. On behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, we have already indicated that we support the adoption of this strategy, I support it myself, but I would like to warn you of a few things. It seems to me that this is also one in a series of strategies that the Republic of Croatia is making because it must have, not because it is truly deeply committed to forming the objectives set out in that strategy. Secondly, I find it actually devastating for both our citizens and the generations to come, the fact that we are talking about a strategy that has a view in 2050 and we are literally discussing it during a single afternoon in a situation where we have a dozen representatives in the assembly, which actually tells us how much this strategy really is for all of us and as politicians and as representatives in the end, as citizens who care about new generations, how important it is to us, how much we care about it. I would also like to say that, as I said in one replica, the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia is that its own strategies are not implemented and that the final effect in achieving the objectives of individual strategies is generally lagging behind. I'm afraid that's the way it's going to be with this strategy, mostly because it actually doesn't communicate in any way and it doesn't look at other strategies that should be complementary to this because they depend on each other. For example, the Strategy for Regional Development, for example, the Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption, which is very important here. I'll tell you why. Recently, we had opportunities to see in the media the article that the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund had less than 700 million kn which had been established five years ago and that despite this significant time-limit, we still have a situation to cover up the investigation of this case and because there is no political will on the one hand and because political partners are being protected. And who are these political partners who would have been able to discover where 700 million kn was lost for the energy restoration of facades should have disappeared, that is Minister Tomislav Coric and these are the people who have the management power at the Zagreb waste management centre. All that we have spoken today during this debate on behalf of clubs on how this strategy should enable new economic potentials, the opening of new economic branches, the whole industry, the jobs, improve the lives of both citizens and give new wings to the development of entrepreneurship, will once again fall into the water on the same test where all other attempts to transform something in Croatia are falling. In corruption, in clienteleism, in a system that is not capable of controlling itself and people who are being placed at the top of the line, and so again, if we are going to have order documents, if we are going to adopt them so that we can report a clutch to some house of competent authorities at EU level, then regrets the God of effort, work and work because of the implementation of such a strategy there will be absolutely nothing. As I said, the objectives are good, but the implementation will be lagging behind, so I suggest that through a whole series of laws that will need to be amended, that detail by detail, that segment by segment we discuss in debates that will not last as short as the debate has taken place on this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49321	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Before we move on to the next point, I would just like to announce that after that we will have a presentation of the views of clubs and independent representatives, so here you are, please, to keep this account, to pass on eventually to colleagues who are not here who want to speak on behalf of clubs or independent representatives, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49323	Therefore, we would now move to the next item, and it has two parts of A) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency and - B) Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the Board of Directors of the Croatian News Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 11. The law on Croatia reports to the news agency. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, and on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Danica Baricevic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the ministry, esteemed colleagues and colleagues here we have before us a proposal for a Decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, as well as their appointment. Therefore, by virtue of the Law on Croatia, the Croatian Parliament appoints and resolves these members of the Governing Council at the time and term of office of 4 years. So, on the basis of a public call from the Ministry of Culture, the government of the Republic of Croatia has just proposed a meeting to resolve and appoint. So at a session held on April 22nd, '21. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has established a proposal on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of Croatia's news agency due to the end of the term of office, namely Slavica Cvitanic from the line of employees in Croatia to the news agency and Bruno Dobrinić, Maja Plesskalt and Romane Bogat from the order of economic and financial, legal and information experts. At the same meeting, the Government of the Republic of Croatia just on the basis of the public call procedure, established a proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, proposing to appoint Andrej Matijasevic as members of the Governing Council of the Croatian news agency, as well as Slavko Kozin, Bozidar Djerek and Suzana Grubešić from the order of economic and financial, legal and information experts. We have just received these motions for decisions with the appropriate documentation that has been submitted to all of us parliamentary representatives in support. The HDZ Club will therefore support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49325	Thank you very much. On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Mako Kuzmanic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49326	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, here's listening to my colleague Baricevic, I didn't just realize if she was reading the views of the Committee on Information, Information and Media or the practical attitude of HDZ. I would say a few words about this, immediately at the beginning to say ad hominem against no one I have nothing, people I don't know, I don't know, but I see that the way it is being cassed in public services means public Croatian television and public Croatian news agency in this particular case, I don't think it's good. We have materials coming to the board without any explanation. It is clear to me that a public call is made, based on which criteria and whom the Prime Minister proposes. What I would congratulate him on is that he is very good at applying those Stalinist methods that human policy is the most important. I wish we were a little bit more successful in some other areas as we are, as our government is successful in staffing and hiring in public services, and then we are surprised tomorrow when the President of the Republic calls public and local television YUTEL. Public services should be in the service of citizens, and perhaps in some future these decisions should be made in a completely different way. Not only in Croatia's news agency, but also in Croatian radio and other Croatian public services. I'll repeat, ad hominam against any proposal here personally I have nothing, but against the way I choose. And for that reason, and for another reason I'm going to tell you right now, the SDP Club is not going to support this proposal. They will also not support it because this proposal is a proposal from the government without further explanation, a government governed by the HDZ or an organisation which Croatian citizens have no reason to believe because of all the affairs we have seen so far. I have nothing against these people, but against whoever is proposing them and how I have them and for that reason the SDP will not support this proposal. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49327	Now, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club, the respected representative, William Matula, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49328	I thank the President, Secretary of State, very briefly, I won't take your time at all. So from my fellow journalists, from my colleagues from the news union, of course from the people next this and personally I think of Andrej Matijasevic only the best on that list. As far as these experts are concerned, we have been asking questions, and for the time being, we have indeed heard the same thing about them that they are all experts or experts, and we will use it until the moment of the vote to see if there will possibly come something in this direction, I understand the reasons of this colleague Kuzmanić, this dadaca, until then we are not determined, nor that, at present, I can say that the abstention, but about these people first of all, we have a very positive opinion about Andrej Matijasic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-21-0.u49329	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
