ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71504	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I open the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament, I warmly welcome you all, and I especially welcome the President of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, vice presidents and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minutes of the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament have been received by electronic means, any objections to the minutes? As there are no objections, I would like to conclude that we adopted the minutes of the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. With a call for the session, you also received a proposal for the agenda. The final draft agenda was sent to you by electronic means. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. In the final draft agenda, I included 15 new points under regular numbers 4, then 11-19, 27, 54, 101, 126 and 127. Art. 227 The Rules of Procedure shall first decide on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. Art. 206 The Rules of Procedure lay down that laws which comply with EU documents are adopted following an urgent procedure, if requested by the applicant and not voted on. These are points 1, 2 and 3 of the final draft agenda according to... Did you get that? Oh, no? In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 206th century 1 of the Rules of Procedure states that these legal proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 205 Rules of Procedure will now be decided on the bill proposed by the Proposer in an emergency procedure, that is, point 4. Final draft agenda, this is the point of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Croatian Citizenship with the final draft law. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act? If there are no objections, I shall establish that the proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205 Rules of Procedure. Written complaints on the agenda I suggested with the call for a session were not made and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article. Article 225(3) The Rules of Procedure, it considers it established. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 225th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure, at the meeting of the Assembly, may be submitted in writing only to those points which did not contain a draft agenda with a call for a session. In the absence of a written objection to points which did not contain a proposal for a agenda with a call for a session, such points shall be included in the agenda of the 9th session. Now, with your consent, I will announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71522	- Mrs. Crescent. Marijana Puljak will be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71523	Thank you. My name is Mariana Puljak and I am a parliamentary representative. I help all Croatian doctors by vaccination and following epidemiological measures. Doctors, nurses and all the other medical staff are heroes of these pandemics, hidden behind the curtains in hospitals, and their inhuman efforts are not seen, not by vaccination and not by respecting measures, and we repay them. I thank you, dear doctors and medical staff, thank you for your vaccination and for your trust. I call on all our fellow citizens to help doctors who believe in all other situations and respect what they prescribe. They ask for their help when their throat is turned on, when they get hurt, break their arm or leg, when they get high fever, when they have a heart attack, they trust doctors. So I urge you to trust them and now, help medical professionals who are on the verge of emergency vaccination, thus helping yourself and your loved ones. Let's help the doctors and the medical staff and vaccinate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71553	Mr. Zeljko Pavić will present the position of the Club of Representatives, in fact the Social Democrats Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71554	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we had a current watch with the representatives of the government and despite hearing more questions about the case, we did not get answers on who was involved and who is considered responsible, so I will try to use this exposure on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to draw attention to the fact that it should be easy to find out who was involved with Gabriela Žalac in the software affair. In fact, in each serious institution, the document passes certain instances depending on the business process that is part of the drafting of the document. That's also the case with documents relating to public procurement. the person responsible for each activity, i.e. to be signed on the document, and since there is also a signed list of all employees working on the document, it is very easy to determine who took part in the preparation of documents that enabled the purchase of software at a price which is multiplely higher than originally planned. By asking whether the initially planned price was too high, since the production of software was ultimately entrusted to the company with one employee. In addition to these facts, we come up with even greater dubiosis when we start an instance more, and if we know that software procurement is accompanied by the National Council for State Information Infrastructure. We all need to know and be aware of that. At the head of the council, at the head of the National Council for State Information Infrastructure, the prime minister is, among other things, the task of the Council makes recommendations for the launch of projects in the field of development of a digital society in state administration bodies and other public-legal bodies owned or majority owned by the Republic of Croatia, monitoring the implementation of projects, investment in information technologies, state information and communication infrastructures, monitoring public procurement plans and investments in information technologies in state administration bodies and other public-law bodies owned or majority owned by the Republic of Croatia, and assessing the quality and availability of these information services. The Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds is definitely a state administration body, which means that the purchase of the software in question had to be discussed at the National Council for State Information Infrastructure, i.e. the Council should have obtained documentation to justify an increase in the purchase price by 5.6 times in relation to the initial price and it is very difficult to believe that none of the council members noticed that the conditions under which the tender can occur were both the company with only one employee and very small traffic and the company that fought the blockades. We do not know what recommendations the National Council has made for this project, but we definitely do not understand why the National Council did not react in the phase of carrying out investment in those software, and it is even less clear to us how and why the Council did not react when monitoring the public procurement and investment policy, especially because of the already mentioned facts relating to the price and the conditions that companies that would possibly report to the competition. We can draw two conclusions from this. First, someone in the council submitted a report that did not contain all the information or did not contain the correct information, or that the Council received a report with correct data, but that for who knows what reasons it did not respond to this report. In view of what has been said so far, we're looking for information regarding the purchases carried out by Mrs. Gristle. In view of the council's tasks, we are looking for information that Mrs. Kaljac explained the collection of six times a project that has not really increased functionality, and has not changed the scope of the work on the project. Furthermore, since members of the council and leading people are the institutions that are key for the implementation of the digitisation and information of the public authority in the Republic of Croatia, we are looking for information on what their reactions to this procurement were and whether opinions have been issued. In addition, we are looking for information that the expert body has developed to assess and explain price increases. And after that, we'll make it easy to come to conclusions that were protected by the DORH and the Jump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71576	Finally, Mr. Marko Pavić will be the positions of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71577	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues today, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I would like to put an emphasis again on the issues concerning Brussels, i.e. European topics and youth issues. Tomorrow, the Vice-President of the European Commission, Ms Shuica, will host the Parliament and will present the European Commission's 2022 programme, in accordance with the Co-operation and European Affairs Act. Of course I'll leave tomorrow to Mrs. Shuci and the president of the European Affairs Committee, Mr. Hajdukovic, that tomorrow we have a debate on the subject. However, I would also like to take the opportunity through several points highlighted in the Union's state of play, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, to highlight issues on which this Government is working significantly, which are young, digital and green transitions, and the European pillar of social rights. When we talk about young Commission Presidents in his speech on the state of the nation on 15.9 this year, it was just this year that we need to focus on young people and through a conference on the future of Europe and that, just next year in 2022, the European Year of Youth. I believe that we will also mark a number of events in this House of Commons that year. But interestingly, in her speech to the nation or the Union, she also announced some new programmes that would be for young people, so she stated that with the existing Erasmus programme, an Alma programme would be organised. The idea is to raise qualifications, raise upskilling, educate our young people through support for education, vocational training or employment in their country or by modelling Erasmus professional working practice in another country, but subject to return to their own country. And just today, we also had a sense of Minister Aladrovic about the measures of active employment. Croatia has made significant steps here with 25000 kuna today as a young person who wants to self-employment can receive support of up to 130000 kuna and we have doubled the number of young people who open their own companies. At 1.4 next year, and very nicely coincided with the European Year of Youth will be active and vouchers for training, i.e. upskilling, risk skiing. 300 million kuna intended for employees and unemployed to raise their skills on the labour market. In this way we want not only to support young people by means like these 130 000 kunas, but we also want to strengthen their life stories, increase the productivity of the company and lead to them actually getting higher wages on the labour market. Tomorrow is the National Conference of the Young Generations, which is organized by a youth activation network in Samobor. I will be the representative of Mr. Jandrokovic's Croatian Parliament there. And these very important messages from the Croatian Parliament and European themes from Brussels will be delivered to youth associations so that they can prepare well with us for next year and put into focus the labour market, employment, youth activation. With 12 and a half billion kuna invested in 700,000 jobs, we saved the economy, and I congratulate Minister Aladrović and HZZ and Mr Loncar on excellent conduct. The goal is to activate as many people on the labour market as possible. We see that we have a shortage of labour, that we have 20,000 more employees than before the David 2019. And that today or the next season, the biggest problem of employers will be the lack of labour. This is exactly where we want to give young people the opportunity to do better jobs, value-added jobs, jobs that allow higher salaries to be employed, and these 300 million kunas today I have told Minister Aladrović that I hope that these 300 million kunas as well as the programme "desire" may one day grow to 2 billion kuna and that we will provide young people with a better future in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71578	You, too. That's how we're done with the attitudes. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.48 HOURS]] We continue to work, deliver a position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives. He's the first gentleman in front of the Bridge, Mr. Nino Rasdic. Here you go, Prego.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71624	The surreally best word is to describe the impression left by last week's press conference of the main state attorneys and director of USKOK where we could witness the collapse of Croatian institutions live. People whose job it is to detect and process corruption and crime seem to be primarily involved in its cover-up and cover-up. How is it that, as they themselves acknowledge, in the case of Gabriela Žalac, the former EU fund ministers and members of the HDZ presidency, a failure occurred to them? How could it not have been sufficient for our investigative authorities to continue the investigation or to press charges, and for the European prosecutor it is? How can a dead object come to life? There was nothing there for USCOC and the state's chief attorney, no sign of life in that case, nothing to be caught for. He was declared dead, so dead that there was no need to inform the European Prosecutor's Office about the potential reduction of funds from EU funds. About the dead all the best, and then a miracle unseen. I'd like to know when, after they got the same notices they had and our weddings, the party suddenly showed that the object was very vital, if the dressers were then surprised and said like in that joke about the phasers that continue to fly after the marshal's shot, look at them, dead and flying. After this debacle, how do you trust Uskok and the state's chief attorney? Their predecessors Bajic and Cvitan submitted reports to foreign embassies, reported investigations conducted and showed them confidential documents, according to Wikileaks. And after all that, their hair didn't fall off their heads, though, they just conspired. Their present - day heirs went to another extreme. While Bajic and Cvitan were showing foreigners what they were not supposed to do, these two hide from foreigners what they had to show them, when they themselves were not willing or saw no reason to continue to investigate. It was tiring to watch them break professionally and morally at the conference ahead of simple news issues, but on the other hand, it was also cathartic. It is clear why in Croatia we are at all levels as it is, the fish smell from the head, and the house is air-conditioned in the foundations. We need so much thorough reform, combing and purifying institutions that we can rightly talk about another republic when this process begins, and it will begin. Maybe on the case right now, there's a big break. Respecting the presumption of innocence, but given the extremely high percentage of the convictions on the basis of the European prosecutor's charges in similar cases, we can conclude that Andrej Plenkovic is in fear of the development of this case, even a little more than Bulj and I are afraid of the Vatican. Only a few weeks after the HDZ's final verdict on corruption, Plenkovic experienced a cold shower. The story that his HDZ has fallen differently into the water, his people who manage EU funds are being persecuted by the EU prosecutor, which completely dispersed the fictitious foundation of the European statesman of a new breed and left only the cardiocy of old HDZ's habit. In this case, will “the dirty hands be washed quickly”? Who else can wash you? Who's next? Is it true that some other ministers fear OLAF? When we see that the HDZ has not changed a hair or plague compared to Sanader's time, can we rightly ask ourselves if there is any conflict of interest in the procedures and decisions on the acquisition of equipment, tests, vaccines and anything else? When it comes to HDZ after the second final verdict and now a booster dose of the Tubular case, is it reasonable to think that it is not? At the beginning of the epidemic, Covid’s equipment was placed with a code of secrecy and it was decided to get past the Public Procurement Act, and yesterday a recent member of the Government Scientific Council in an interview in Free Dalmatia claimed that at the beginning of the epidemic he offered that his laboratory would do PCR analyses for 100 to 150 kuna and carry out 5 to 10 thousand analyses per day, but that the government refused and said, quote, the price cannot be 150 kuna but must already be 1500 kuna, and that the lower price would be considered an unfair match, finished quote and add that today, quote, the tests that cost 10 to 15 kuna are paid 100 or more kuna, finished quote. When are we going to talk about this, comrades? Will we soon have to establish a parliamentary commission that will investigate all decisions and all traces of public money spent on and around the epidemic? How many on-call hygienics, scientific and media in conflict of interest, i.e. in one way or another, connected to certain pharmaceutical companies? You don't think there's gonna be a day when that's gonna be explored, too? Ask yourself a little question about the poet, what happens when dead pheasants fly over our heads. When dead pheasants fly and none fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71648	Mr. Stipo Mlinarić will present the views of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71649	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club to refer to the "remembrance column" that was in Vukovar a few days ago. First of all, I would like to say that this year's "colony of Memories" would not have been in this number and so magnificent if it hadn't been for Ivan Penava Mayor Vukovar, the city of Vukovar, who are the organizers of these "colony memories". Because as we saw through the media the secretary of defenders to whom it should be sacred, he urged people not to come into the "remembrance column" to stay at home and light a candle and probably keep a mask on their faces. People disobeyed him, and over 50,000 came to “a memory column. ” I thank them once again from this pay phone. I am especially pleased that many young people this year were in the column, not only in the 18th column, but also in the 17th evening where prayer is, where the friars of Vukovar pray, the 17th evening at the hospital, the 19th in Commerco and the twentieth lot of young people on Ovcara, which really was my heart when I saw it. Today I hear an orderly question here where I tried to cause a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so President Jandrokovic did not allow me to do so, the ordered question. Ante Deur asks Minister Bear about the cemetery in Vukovar. The minister of the cold dead in the Croatian Parliament also declares that they have expanded the cemetery to bury the dead Croatian defenders, but that they left one part of the cemetery for the missing. I think that the cemetery he predicted for the missing will unfortunately fill in the unfortunately dying Croatian defenders, especially campers, who are the most endangered group where they die on average at 54 years of age. And unfortunately, this cemetery that he predicted for the missing will remain empty, for they have found nothing of the missing. They haven't found anything, nor are they trying to find them. If they had the political will, it could be done a lot. I'm not saying everything, everything's probably impossible to find, but from 1861 people that you can't find at least half or half of me don't agree to it, nor will I ever agree to it. So their column failed, they couldn't get people to stay home. People can hardly be deceived and deceived, because Vukovar is a symbol of victory for ordinary Croatian man, a symbol of freedom, a symbol of suffering and no one will put it out in the Croatian people, in the Croatian heart. But it would also be good after 30 years to draw a line and see what is after the suffering of Vukovar in '91. The year until 2021 is what was made and what wasn't done. On one show when I was visiting the fall of the town of HDZ, they always count from the current who has been their Prime Minister since then. Mothers who seek their children count time since '91. A year. It doesn't mean the last five years to them, it doesn't mean the last 10 years to them, it means all 30 years to them. We know very well who defended Croatia, that Croatia defended the Croatian poor who first rose, took arms and opposed the JNA and Chetniks. It would be nice to underline the line and see who bought the factories while the Croatian poor girl died on the battlefields. Whose children bought the kuna factories, fired the workers and eventually sold them and put the money in their pocket. As far as I know, this Croatian Parliament passed the Law on Non-Aging in Privatisation a few years ago. It means he's got political will very soon to get rid of it. We have an example of Bulgaria that dealt with this very well in 2018. You should always look at others and take and apply them. I'm just afraid that we won't wait that day because many who are in power right now or their children would find themselves in bad trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71672	Thank you. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will present the views of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71673	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. All of you who have turned this video on somewhere on social networks I invite you to look at it all the way, do not judge this video and what I'm going to say based on a few words that I'm going to say at the very beginning. I've never hidden myself as a politician. At one point I told the ruling coalition of Andrej Plenkovic and his partners goodbye. At the time, we were the only political option and I was the only representative to leave the government's position, a comfortable position of power. I was the only representative, or only political option, when I courageously and uncompromisingly defended my life from conception, even though it personally did not bring me excessive popularity, especially in front of local elections. I was the only one who pointed out the right way to fly to Marrakesh on the issue of illegal migration. I am the only one in this HS in the last term, I will stress the only one because some have kept silent, had a vow of silence, and today they are extremely loud, defended or spoke against the Istanbul Convention, which I still consider to be a problem for Croatian society, or that we should not have adopted it. And he would repeat all these things, as he would repeat that uncompromisingly not Croatian-Serbian trade coalition, as I exposed the globalist policy of Andrej Plenkovic and the role of Milorad Pupovac in the coalition. And that's me, that's my political role. On the other hand, I'm also going to say with an attitude, and I'm proud to be vaccinated, that I've been vaccinated twice after I've been over it. However, what is crucial is that I do not impose mandatory vaccination on everyone. For some reasons alone, some people do not want to be vaccinated, someone does not believe in the vaccine, someone suspects, for some reason they do not want to take that preparation, and no matter what I do in my position, I can invite someone to be vaccinated on the other hand, I will still be entitled to those who do not want to be vaccinated. I was also the first to warn here from HS respected Minister Beros that there is one possibility that we can stop this epidemic or that we can reduce its progress, which is testing everyone. Let's test both vaccinated and unvaccinated. To clarify, we have several options, one option is lockdown, we're not for lockdown, one is the possibility of effective vaccines, unfortunately the vaccines we see are not so effective and that we all split up, neither are so effective nor will everyone want to split. The third option would be that we all test ourselves continuously without exception and vaccinated and unvaccinated. And that's what I've been calling the government of the Republic of Croatia on for a long time. So it's your fault that some people in Croatia today have a skepticism, fear or simply don't believe what you're saying because of the numerous unbeliefs you've placed over the past months and past years. And today, overnight, you can't even talk to a large number of Croatian citizens, and that's what we see over 30% of the adult population who don't want to be vaccinated right now, and then just because you haven't been able to convince them and talk them into doing what you have the opportunity to do, and that's to test everything. Let's do tests as much as possible regardless of the price, let's try to stop this epidemic and this pandemic. I'm sorry that some of the topics that are the key topics shared by society have fallen into another plan because of this topic. However, the epidemic will end, and to end as soon as possible let us be credible, so that there are no double standards for its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71698	Thank you. Mrs. Sanja Radolovic, will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71699	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, at the "current morning", I asked the prime minister and the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. Unfortunately, I didn't get the answer. The question was about the software affair. I'm not the only one who asked him that question, but the prime minister kept avoiding answering the same question. What I must say is, so today, the prime minister has boasted several times today that we will receive 22 billion euros. However, he did not mention what kind of staff we will receive 22 billion euros and whether now that our operational programmes are key strategic documents for withdrawing funds from the EU funds after this affair software, ask God what will happen in the coming days and weeks with arrests related to the affair because only four people have been arrested. Will our operational programmes be stuck to the negotiation process in Brussels and, of course, what will happen then? It will result in a late announcement of the calls themselves. A lot of entrepreneurs came to me, preparing projects for EU funding and saying it is very uncertain to know what they expect in the coming period, they hired consultants, they paid them. All of their strategic guidelines for business, business plans, strategies have just been targeted and based on EU funding funds. I can only say that in this whole affair, the software that has been discovered is actually the most regrettable of people, those small people at the lowest operational levels that are working hard and hard every day to write EU projects, to implement the projects for which they have received funding. And actually this affair software is one big splash in their face. However, we still have major problems throughout the system and implementation and application and control of EU funds. What's most important is that the evaluation and selection of projects are still about the number of activities and the model of the fastest finger she invented and we can patent just the former Minister Gabriela Žalac. The rules for those who are at the lowest levels of EU funds are also changing can also be said during the match itself without a clear explanation, which is why they have occurred, and the vague, unequivocal and inconclusive criteria are subject to the subjective impression of external experts, and the assessment in question is often not in line with the rules set out in the call and the invitation to provide evidence of the infringement described in the instructions and documentation of the call in question. Today, entrepreneurs also face too long duration of the evaluation and co-financing process, which can lead to significant complications at the very beginning of the implementation of the projects. In fact, what is the main problem, that exists, we have seen sanctions against users, but there is no sanctions in the Croatian system of EU funds, absolutely no sanctions that can be imposed against the bodies implementing the evaluation, implementation and control of EU funds. Of course, the biggest problem with our EU fund system is certainly personnel. The prime minister insists that 22 billion euros, but I repeat, we really don't have the personnel to pull these huge billions from the EU funds. Our personnel in the EU fund system work for extremely low wages and without experience. And when they gain experience, they should say that they go to work in private consulting companies that pay them twice or even three times as much. It is not normal for the SAFU, the Two Intermediate Bodies Agency, to work for 6000 kuna with completed colleges, with several years of working experience on EU funds projects, while at the same time leading to exceptional multimillion-dollar infrastructure projects. I must also say that all these complicated and extensive tender procedures have not been imposed on us by anyone from Brussels or from the EU, but rather by Croatia itself. I repeat, Gabriela Žalac is the creator of the evaluation and selection of projects just by model's fastest finger. It must also be said, for example, that if entrepreneurs in Croatia today plan to implement projects, given the possibility of the circumstances of the time of the project's application since their selection and evaluation takes two and more years. So the entire system of implementation, application and control of EU funds is in absolute chaos and this "softver" affair just added a point to that point on i. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71722	Thank you. Mr Silvano Hrelja will be the position of the Club of HNS, HSU and independent representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71723	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am taking the opportunity to warn our citizens of two burnings, two problems. The first one is tied to a covid supplement for the pensioners. I must say that on 30 November, it is also the last deadline for pensioners who have pensions, total pension incomes of less than 4000 kuna resident in Croatia with one part of the pension payment from abroad to have a third possibility or second deadline of applying to receive a covid supplement that was divided by the government's decision by pensioners because they had an increased cost of living during the pandemic. I, from this pay phone, have proposed larger amounts, but the negotiators have done what they have done. But I certainly advocate that all those who exercise the right to do so, and therefore I have also worked with the Prime Minister to open this deadline. The deadline is therefore November 30th with payment in December of this year and thus the payment of that one-time allowance or one-time assistance to pensioners depending on the amount of receipt ends. So, the project is being circled. I appeal to those who may have forgotten to apply or ignore all these notices or have not heard that if they hear this and have not yet done so within this short time period they are doing so, so that they can apply to all the Croatian Pension Insurance Service departments that will forward it to the processing centre, therefore to control and processing. The second reason I'm answering is let's say professional nature. In fact, as a security engineer, I've been dealing with the assessment of harmfulness and danger. I've been doing a risk assessment for the lives and health of the workers. And I think I'm competent when I can in this situation covid pandemic that I can tell one eternal truth, which is that the risks can't come down to zero, that I can't avoid. And the overall activity of the human race, society as an organisation is aware of the risks to the minimum. How? Prevention. From prevention, we have protective masks, we have physical clearance, and we have a third possibility of vaccination. So it's been proven that dying is, therefore, fewer deaths if the cleavage is higher. This through one single look at the table of conditions between European countries and the wider one can be convinced. Of course, that vaccination process carries its risks, too, because we are a unique organism. There is no one else who is similar to our organism and each organism acts differently. But if we interpret statistics using these three measures, we reduce the risks of fatal diseases, severe illnesses, fatal outcomes and occupations of the hospital system with covid patients and to the harm of all those who need to be treated by other diseases. Therefore, my appeal is to the particular population of the Republic of Croatia that I have been representing here for years, so 60+a, even before, if they have chronic diseases to split, not to philosophize, not to ask for excuses, not to talk about any microchips that will be injected. We also wear microchips that recognize us carry us in every cell phone, in every pocket. So let's let go of that nonsense. Let's do everything that deaths, severe illnesses have as little and let's not get too philosophical about the harmful effects of vaccinations. Because they haven't been proven. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71730	Mrs Urša Raukar Gamulin will be the position of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71731	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, we have already warned in free speeches about the government's decision to liquidate the Brodar Institute, the Institute that owns the largest laboratory resources not only in Croatia but also much wider. It has 7 decades and more experience, it has a remarkable and valuable professional frame but it has 120 000 squares of valuable land that we fear and cause this decision. I will repeat that we welcome the first part of the decision, which provides 60 million kuna for the resolution of the Institute's debt in order to prevent the bankruptcy of valuable assets. However, we cannot agree with the other part of the decision to liquidate the Brodar Institute. What concerns is the reason for this decision, which speaks of valuable land, but does not mention valuable laboratory resources anywhere. It is also part of the 60 million planned for severance workers, but the Brodar Institute is not only property. With a valuable infrastructure that is rare in Europe, it is equally important and professional. The Green-Left bloc club organised a round table in the Parliament this week with the theme of the future of the Boat Institute between the liquidation and the development perspective. We invited Professor Vladimir Andročec, Dr. Julia Donac, Master of Art, Martu Pedisic Butch, Professor of Dr. Nikola Miskovic, Professor of Dr. David Mathieu Smith, Weekly Peric, Professor of Emeritus FER, Tomislav Urod of Entrepreneurs, Professor of Dr. Jerome Andric. So we have gathered 8 top experts and professors who in their presentations and in their debate have established again and again the enormous value of the Broding Institute for Croatian Science and Economy and sent a clear message that the liquidation and disposal of the Broding Institute would be simply irreparable damage. They made very concrete proposals for survival, restructuring, reforming the current Broding Institute. All agreed that the Brodar Institute should become a national technical institute that, with maritime technology, could develop its expertise and activities in related areas such as electromobility, hydrogen, energy storage and the like. In the debate and again, it has shown that there is significant experience in attracting international projects and that our science is well recognised internationally so that opportunities in the form of existing strategic projects, available funding and human potentials should be used as soon as possible and allow for the transformation of the Brodar Institute into a national technical institute that will work closely with domestic and foreign industries and be linked to scientific and higher school institutions. Of course, a logical question arises why such a composition is not invited to the Government before any decision on the Broding Institute is made. Well, it's not too late yet. A working group should be organised to be representatives of the Ministry of Construction and State Property, the Ministry of Science and Education, and the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, and experts and scientists who participated in this open table should be involved in drawing up a vision. There are concrete ideas and suggestions. Realisation is possible within a very short time. All it takes is political will. And this will would allow the Brodar Institute to be saved from winding down and shutting down, which would be an irreparable damage to both science and the economy, but also to the entire Croatian society as a whole. So, Prime Minister Plenkovic is on the move. We call on him to revise the government's decision and enable the scientific community to devise and realise the future of the Broding Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71777	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will now start by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the government, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure, Articles 132.-139. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first in line today to ask questions is MP Karolina Vidovic Kristo and the question asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71778	Mr Plenkovic, the Croatian State's Attorney's Office was not at all controversial that former Minister Gabriela Žalac bought software for the ministry for 13.5 million kuna, which she then put in a drawer without the ministry using that software at all. It would be like if someone bought an expensive car and then didn't pick it up or use it. Here, look, European investigators have been throwing money, of course, immediately characterized as rough corruption. In fact, this type of corruption is not complex and is easily identified to every normal one. The reason why Croatian lawyers are throwing taxpayers' money away is not corruption, it is a subject for themselves, but the next aspect which unfortunately is not in the competence of European researchers is as clear as the case of Gabriela Žalac and the acquisition of software. At the same time, your special adviser for finance, Zvonimir Savic, was also an adviser to Gabriela Žalac, as well as current adviser to EU Finance Minister Natasa Tramišak and you. The reason why the same person is an adviser to you as prime minister and, at the same time, the Minister of the EU Funds is to manage the spending of EU funds through this joint advisor. In addition to those advisory roles, your highly active adviser Savic is also employed as a direct member of the HGK and is also a member of the RBA Supervisory Board of the Mandatory Pension Fund. RBA mandatory pension funds, which manage the money of Croatian employees, invest significant funds in the Atlantic Group of Emil Tedeschi, and the Secretary-General of Atlantic Group is Ivica Misetic, the father of your close associate Tena Misetic. Explain, please, did the decision on the disputed procurement of software take place by Minister Žalac or you through Councillor Savic? Is this why you openly defend former Minister Žalac and in no way have you condemned the corruption that has occurred. And finally, are you aware of the damage you're doing to Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71779	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71780	Thank you, well-respected MP Vidović Kristo, good morning to you and good morning to all MPs and MPs. As for the fight against corruption and the fight against corruption, so I believe that all of the floscules, and you are one of those who predicates in the flossules about who fights corruption, whose judiciary, who has any influence on the DORH, simply all of these tends to fall down like a map tower. If HDZ's judiciary were to assume that the Supreme Court would at least return the case to the Fimi Media, is that correct, yes. If HDZ or I personally had an impact on the State's Attorney's Office, there would probably be no investigation of anyone from HDZ, there would be no one, no object, all of them in their places somewhere under glass bells, protected and nothing would be known about it, nothing to speak of, but, behold, miracles. What's the point of fighting corruption? The point of fighting corruption is something that is very clear and simple. It consists of two adjectives that the judicial authorities are independent and independent, remember that well. Independent and independent. The state's attorney's office is independent, the USKOK is independent, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is independent. Mrs. Vidovic Kristo that there are also shreds of reserve and vision towards the fight against corruption, and then perhaps some invisible hand and network of related interests that you are insinuating with both the advisor and the deputy head of the office would whisper somewhere you are flocking to access the instrument of the European Public Prosecutor. We could have pulled the hand brake, said we wouldn't, not that we didn't, we didn't need it. Now, you see, that would be a policy that would cover corruption, which would organise judicial interference, influencing the prosecution, the State's Attorney's Office, on the USOK. And that, dear Mrs. Vidovic Kristo, despite your creations written in advance, probably as well as the written answer is now gone. Here and this morning we could read here while I was crossing the road I see there was an arrest of a judge. Do you think I might have known it would happen this morning, I didn't. And then that means that we live in a country where we know what a trio of government is, where we know what independent and independent action is, and the prosecution and the USKOK and the police. As far as a particular case goes, I'm not going to talk about him because I have no reason to talk about him right now. Like every other person that's been involved there's a process, a process that will last, which will eventually be I don't know. But what is certain is that everyone who comes here to the Croatian Parliament has received the trust of the MPs, has no right to do anything illegal. And if anything like that happens, whoever it is will answer. And that's what I say very clearly. And the impression of innocence exists for everyone, even for you at the end of it either for me or for Mrs. Grief you mention. As for Zvonimir Savic, it would be good if we had more people like him. It would be good if we had people who, in the short term, will, on behalf of my office and in cooperation with Minister Maric, I don't know where he is now, whom you love, too, to coordinate the development of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and, behold, he gets EUR 819 million two months ago and now that we meet the criteria of the new EUR 700 million. for Croatia that has [[Intruder: Thank you.]] 50 billion kunas above membership... [[Intruder: Thank you, Prime Minister.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71781	Prime Minister, thank you very much. Time's up. Comrade Kristo, you have the right to comment now, but please wear a mask, you haven't put it all this time while the answer lasted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71782	When preschool children, Mr Plenkovic learns to answer the question, so it's a matter of elemental decency, and you don't answer questions even openly, even if it's a legal and constitutional obligation. The Arab proverb says that lies and theft are neighbors, and your whole answer and I'll fine-tune it because I think that in public space we still need to talk civilisedly, your answer is to hide the truth. If we were in Austria, the situation that I described in my question and the family's non-transparent commitment and commitment to taxpayers' money would have been processed long ago, and a good part of the participants would have been in prison. Because of this corrupt teacher in Croatia, he earns 5,500 kuna, and in order to survive, he has to work another 2 jobs. Because of this corruption of yours, the health system is falling apart. It's not falling apart because of your hysterizing around the pandemic, it's because of your overpriced health care. 200km away from Zagreb in neighbouring EU countries, an anesthesiologist earns twice as much as in Croatia as a nurse. And Croatian wages are low because they are stolen. Croatia is dying because of this injustice that you and your HDZ generate along with your beloved SDSS. But don't forget that justice is slow, but Mr. Plenkovic is available. And you, you leave deep traces of corruption and abuse, and there will come a time when investigators in Croatia will be very independent and will not be deaf and blind but will be normal people as we have seen in European independent investigators.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71783	Let's move on, the second issue of Representative Sanja Udovic is asking Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71784	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, Prime Minister with ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr Plenkovic, I must begin by suing your Minister Aladrovic. Here are a few days that the Social Democrats Club in the Croatian Parliament organised a roundtable on social care reform. All relevant experts responded to the round table, politicians responded, but here was no response from the resolution minister. He didn't really have the need or thought it was appropriate to send someone from the department to hear what the profession had to say. The waist is actually unanimous. They think this kind of reform is not good. That's what they said in the public debate. They made more than 2,000 remarks on a package of seven laws. So here's the minister we're going to leave out because he's actually showing and responding more to his behavior than he might have been on the round table. In short, the profession concluded that there is in fact no strategic standoff for such a reform, that it is not in line with the real needs of all stakeholders in the social care system, nor that the achievement of such a reform nor whether all social care users will be covered or whether they will exercise their rights through such reform or lose their rights. I'll remind you, it's a few thousand users. And to end the question, when are we finally going to see three strategic documents, the National Equality Plan The possibility of people with disabilities [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] National Social Services Development Plan [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] and the third strategic document? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71785	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71786	Thank you very much, esteemed Udovic, for your interest in the subject of social care. As you know, the government has proposed a package of seven laws, three national plans, Minister Aladrovic, along with his expert groups, with a whole series of experts in this area working on this package of laws. Right, there was a public consultation everyone could give their position, these legislative proposals soon come in first reading to MPs in HS, after which they will go to second reading. It will be adopted according to the scheduled calendar I believe by the end of January and I am sure it will improve the welfare system. It is the right place for each and every one of you, including your club, to present concrete proposals and ideas for improvements and amendments to the law, and we will continue with what is our fundamental goal, to strengthen all institutions in the social care system, to increase rights. So if you look at how much of the rights have been increased in any segment relating to social care so far, we can be proud of what we've done and content with it. Of course, such a large package that will seriously reform the existing system requires a thorough debate, demands and professional impasse, and also a political view of this topic. You who come from the Social Democrats Club believe you have special sensitivity on this subject, perhaps personally, I don't know you enough, you know what should be better. All that is useful and can improve the current government proposals we will look at with a healthy constructive view and try to find solutions in Croatia to ensure better social care and ultimately work on our fundamental goal, and the main goal is to reduce poverty, reduce inequality and reduce the social exclusion of our citizens. That's what this package and this law is all about, it's part of our National Development Strategy, it's part of all the strategic documents we're working on. Did the minister have any other obligations that day when that round table was, I don't know, I can ask him that. Whether he was someone else from the ministry or not, I don't know that either, but in any case, if he missed that debate, he certainly won't miss two readings in HS, so you'll be able to tell him personally everything you think would be useful on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71787	My colleagues, Udovic, please be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71788	Here's a thank you. I must express my dissatisfaction with your response to the Prime Minister because I didn't actually get an answer when we're finally going to see these three strategic documents. Of course, first of all, we need to realize that these are strategic documents that are being brought in from 2021-2027, and here I will remind all of us here that we need another month until the end of '21. Then I will remind the general public that strategic documents are important for the withdrawal of European funds. In fact, when we address proposals, then it is always the government's pretext that I have to look after budget expenditures or that they are not covered by budget revenues. But here we haven't used the opportunity to withdraw this year as you announce a billion kunas that you will invest in social care reform in the next two years and that this year perhaps half, 500 million kunas will be included in the system and included in the state budget. And thirdly, I'm glad that you're showing good faith to listen to a highly socially sensitive club, the Social Democrats Club, which has actually seen great injustices in the system, primarily when it comes to users who use their rights under the Law of Birth and Parent Support. In fact, there are more than 3300 who live on 2,328 kunas, which are the parents who are the least protected, and who care about children with high disability rates and who need to take care of their children 24 hours a day for seven days a week. And I'm really glad if the law we've released in the procedure will be carefully studied and adopted so that you can actually show your social sensitivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71789	Thank you. Let's go to the third question, Pedja Grbin's representative asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71790	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the SS. Dear Mr. Prime Minister. Saturday's protest showed that there are certain political groups in Croatia, certain groups that consciously paralyze fear and stress experienced by Croatian citizens after now almost two years of coronation of the crisis. These political groups are paralysing the fact that many of our citizens do not understand why certain measures exist and that certain measures are being taken to combat the epidemic. However, Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you, are you aware of your responsibilities? Are you aware of your responsibilities for not understanding the measures taken by a parasite, headquarters? Are you aware of your responsibilities because of the fact that you have three times declared victory against the pandemic, and that today we are in a 4th wave where the number of infected is higher than ever before, and the number of dead is growing every day? Are you aware of your responsibilities because no one can logically explain in what way and why the criteria and why certain measures are being adopted? Dear Prime Minister, are you aware of your responsibilities for pushing a large part of Croatian citizens into the hands of politically irresponsible individuals, organisers of Saturday's protest and people who want to build their political career on death? Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the SS. Dear Mr. Prime Minister. Saturday's protest showed that there are certain political groups in Croatia, certain groups that consciously paralyze fear and stress experienced by Croatian citizens after now almost two years of coronation of the crisis. These political groups are paralysing the fact that many of our citizens do not understand why certain measures exist and that certain measures are being taken to combat the epidemic. However, Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you, are you aware of your responsibilities? Are you aware of your responsibilities for not understanding the measures taken by a parasite, headquarters? Are you aware of your responsibilities because of the fact that you have three times declared victory against the pandemic, and that today we are in a 4th wave where the number of infected is higher than ever before, and the number of dead is growing every day? Are you aware of your responsibilities because no one can logically explain in what way and why the criteria and why certain measures are being adopted? Dear Prime Minister, are you aware of your responsibilities for pushing a large part of Croatian citizens into the hands of politically irresponsible individuals, organisers of Saturday's protest and people who want to build their political career on death?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71791	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71792	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's a chance for me to fully agree to the first 40 seconds of your exposure, and that happens in HS in this term. I totally agree and I'm glad that both the SDP and this other SDP didn't participate in what we saw on Saturday. I appreciate that, but you're showing that despite that dissociation and the weakness of the mainstream party, which is good. That's where I think we're going in the right direction. But when you talk about the Civil Protection Staff as some kind of parasite, that's where our paths are already falling apart. You're a lawyer, a lawyer, you've been thinking and president of the Constitutional Committee, it's a little bizarre for me that you of all the people in the SDP, and that's what the party's president is talking about the body that was established under the law, which this council has given authority to manage the micromanagement of this crisis, you're talking about as a parasite. Bad, even bad sounds. It's like something's fake, like it doesn't exist. Well, you see, the council has mandated the Civil Protection System Act to make decisions, to monitor the pandemic on a daily basis and like all other adaptations and measures and adjustments ultimately to what we do for the health care of our citizens. About declaring victory, so let's go back to that famous thesis of you and some more or parts of some, mostly left commentators in the media about the declared victory before the July 2020 elections. What was I talking about back then? So we've told you very clearly there's a prospect, a high probability that we'll have a new wave of epidemics in autumn 2020. Did he happen? It is. At the end of May and at the end of June, did we come to the position that within three weeks the number of people infected would be 1-2, today there are 6,000 of them, then we were at 1-2. In these circumstances, we have wisely assessed that we should organise elections, even campaigns, although very... in terms of the gatherings should be organised when the intensity of the epidemic has opened up this political space for us and that is it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, compared to what was waiting for us at that moment, it was a success, you can call it a win, whatever you want. You're asking me for responsibility. First, I will express regret, regret that more than 10,000 people in Croatia have passed away from or with covid. It's a huge number and unfortunately more will die. Here I asked Minister Beros, he's here, and he'll have some questions, somewhere from June 1st is a date from which I count that everyone who wanted to be vaccinated that they could be vaccinated, the minister will confirm it. From that day forward, more than 1700 people who had not been vaccinated died, many of them younger, many of whom had been healthy before. All those people that took advantage of what the state provided for free, the state here I think about you and us, and that's the vaccine, could have avoided that consequence. And as for responsibility for everything we do in these circumstances have measures that are adapted to school, both work and production and transport and retain jobs, support credit ratings, have a 9% growth in this year and on top of that have a tourist season to 80% record, yes I accept that responsibility, but floscule... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71793	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71794	I thank the Honorable President HS. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, you are neither aware of your responsibilities, nor do you understand what you have done. You pushed a large part of Croatian citizens towards irresponsible individuals, various Bujans and Hasanbegovics. You are responsible that a large part of Croatian citizens do not accept that vaccine that you say is secured. Yeah, but people don't accept it because people don't understand what it's about and what it's about. Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, it is unlikely that the citizens of this country are dumber than the citizens of Portugal, Italy, Denmark or some other countries where the split is far greater. The citizens of this country in one too many numbers don't understand or see logic in what is done. And I'll show you that in one picture only. In the same facilities you have cafes and libraries, I guess because our nation is so read and loves the book you decided that the covid certificates are necessary for libraries, and for cafes are not. Is that logical? Is that normal? Is that exactly the center of the epidemic? counterpart Maric will soon ask a question and talk about concrete measures to help citizens in at least one segment and prevent the spread of the pandemic, but Mr Plenkovic, your responsibility is that the number of dead and infected is not less. On the one hand, because measures are probably out of fear, you haven't started to introduce cowardice in time, and on the other, because you're so boastful that you feel you don't have to take bills, nor do you explain what you're doing Why you're doing this on Saturday is the consequence of your [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] work and action. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71795	My fellow coat of arms, thank you very much. Time's up. Let's go to 4 questions, counterpart Hajdukovic asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71797	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr Plenkovic, I am interested in how you will sanction those responsible for the fines we will receive for the criminal and irresponsible spending of money from EU funds. In fact, we at the Social Democrats Club and myself personally Mr. Plenkovic are sincerely concerned about how you will feel in Brussels where you enjoy high reputation according to your own claims, and I believe that even after these events, it doesn't matter when you travel the West. If you as prime minister were not familiar with the criminal activities in this segment, then I believe you will question the responsibility of those who have been familiar or should have been familiar with the criminal actions around European funds. You boast when the EU promises us money, it is your main political weapon, and when we fail to withdraw that money either because of your own incompetence or because of crime, you wash your hands very conveniently of it. Did you know Mr. Plenkovic for the crime of Minister Žalac when you so warmly praise her and defend her or did you not know whether or not she fooled you and my question would be whether Mr. Plenkovic's sensors are still working. Thank God we have our journalists, we have European OLAF who are doing the work for which Croatian citizens are ultimately paying you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71798	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71799	Thank you, well-respected representative Hajdukovic, I like this formulation of our journalists, I suppose, yours, that kind of caught my ears, I hope others have noticed that. But before I start responding to European funds and EU membership, is it difficult for us somewhere, is something embarrassing, is there any problem, so all the same thesis coming from the same circle, I have to go back to what Mr. Grbin said earlier in the party but you're not. So, Mr. Grbin, to make things clear, you missed the hill, all the football you missed, what you said to me, you should have told the former SDP president, your predecessor Milanovic, you're the ones who openly call people into disobedience about the measures we bring to protect people from an infectious disease called Covid. That you in your head can make a logical construct that we are responsible for those who gathered on Saturday, so do you sleep, what you follow, what you read, where you inform yourself, so they only came to the gathering one where they are at the least possible extent called the Covid certificate for state and public institutions came to fight the test. So, the people who were there on Saturday are here today here's Mr. Bartulica's there, he might have been vaccinated, maybe tested I don't know what he did, but he was there. So the man came to the rally to say, and the problem was not vaccination at the rally was testing, testing for 1 second, one benign wipe, wipe. That's what we're talking about. If you think it's my responsibility, then we're very different in logical structures. You have your predecessor who directly resembles Mr. Bulj, Mr. Petrin and this one from Chabra I don't even know what it's called calling people to disobey, to disobey. It's destroying the defense from Covid, so much for having to answer this because you went into deep logical offside. And as for you, Mr. Hajdukovic, look, we've withdrawn more than 80 billion kuna in these eight years of membership, and we've paid 30, plus 50 billion kuna. Do you think that's good and useful? I think so. Do you think that someone with a good reputation in the EU who, in his second term as Prime Minister, will introduce Croatia into both Schengen and the euro area, retained thanks to the reputation that we have in our investment credit rating, will provide 25 billion euros not for me but for you, for Croatia, for all of us, for a decade of generational development, whether this will be good or bad in our kind of trail of achievement on European Croatia. I think she'll be fine. That there are problems in all the countries in the withdrawal of funds, so OLAF and the European Public Prosecutor's Office have not invented Croatia. Well, my people, it's been there for years, and we were not you, but we, our government in 2017, who said politically yes, we want to participate in this instrument because we want stricter control and stricter control of the use of EU funds. Perhaps we are not tired of ex-ante and ex-posting on the institutions that exist with us, so let those who are responsible for it in Europe also control it. I don't have a problem with that, if someone's guilty, they'll answer if they don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71800	Thank you very much, thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71801	Mr. President, the Prime Minister has injured Article 137. The Rules of Procedure, because he did not answer the asked question, but referred to the MP's answer, and I must say completely missed. The responsibility of the President of the Republic, Mr Plenkovic, are his words, your actions are your responsibility, not the head of the headquarters of the Office of the President of the Republic, but the vice president of your government. You are responsible for actions or better said misdemeanor. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]] You're responsible for what the answer is. The Covid crisis is not adequate and... [[Employer: A fellow coat of arms.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71802	I have to rule you out, my colleague, the coat of arms, so the first thing you don't respect is the Rules of Procedure and you're out of time, so I have to give you a heads-up here because you've already been this one, you warned you to stop, you didn't want to. As far as art is concerned. 137, it does not clearly define what the president.../incomprehensible/... yes, this is not a replica. The replica cannot answer the comrades, and in response to the parliamentary question, it does not stand in the Rules of Procedure precisely how it can answer or do not answer any of the members of the Government. So, I understand what you're saying, but there's no business space here that I would ask the Prime Minister to do anything else than he did. It is again an assessment of observers, viewers, whether they are satisfied with his answer or not, but the Rules of Procedure does not give any space for any warning. Are you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71803	I thank the Honorable President of HS, allow me to read the article. 137, to remove every doubt A member of the government to whom the question has been asked is obliged to answer the question immediately. [[Intruder: You can.]] Look, there are a variety of logical interpretations, consummations, attitudes can do what I want, but brother dear, right now in Croatian it's so clear that even you can't relativate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71804	Okay, he answered the question the way the Prime Minister wanted to answer. It doesn't say here that he can't refer to anything other than what's asked, so it's very clear and simple. ... A fellow coat of arms, viewers, or voters and citizens, will evaluate on that current morning was and will then draw their conclusions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleague Hajdukovic, so you have the right to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71805	Thank you, well-respected Prime Minister, I'm glad, your fixation on my former colleagues, but you have shown how much you really care about the subject of corruption, as well as the rest of the HDZ membership. When I say our journalists, Mr. President, I mean Croatian journalists. The last time I checked, I was still a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and then Croatian journalists are ours in that logic and mine and yours. I agree with you that we are in addition to EU membership. I agree that we've withdrawn a good amount of money, but what's my question is whether that money really came to the ones it was intended for or stolen by your party colleagues from HDZ, a convicted criminal organization. I agree that there are problems everywhere in withdrawing money from the EU funds, that is true. But is there crime everywhere, Mr. President? Do other countries have to be ashamed and blushed in front of EU institutions when OLAF is giving them a gift to care for and arrest an ex-partner, one of your close associates, your choice, your new HDZ, Mr Plenkovic, whom no one can blind to the label of corruption? If you, Mr Plenkovic, are responsible by your alleged reputation for this great money that will come from the EU to us, then you must be responsible for that logic when we embezzle it and when we steal it, it is also your responsibility. And if you're not ashamed and if you don't care about the reputation of Croatia, then do you at least care about your own reputation, especially if you're going to continue your career somewhere in the EU? And if you're not ashamed of Croatian citizens again and you're not embarrassed in front of them, and are you uncomfortable in front of Paris taxi drivers? Are you uncomfortable in front of the Luxembourg pastries? Are you uncomfortable in front of the Brussels brewers or the Strasbourg craftsmen whom you will answer as, or perhaps someone in the EU today, but who have paid huge money in this European budget that your HDZ fraternities have stolen?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71806	Let's move on with the questions. Now it's time for my colleague, Shimpraga, to ask the question of Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71807	I thank the President, Your Honor. My question is about paying the costs of war crimes damage. As I was already saying here, instead of being a civilian war victim of being satisfactory before the authorities of the Republic of Croatia, because of the fact that your parents were killed in the war, you are in a certain way a multiple victim because you lost the dispute and you are obliged to pay the costs of a litigation that is not negligible. Victims who again become victims of the rule of law and equality of all before courts need to make a decision to write off debts to civil war victims. Dear Ministers, did the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry take certain steps, or will we continue to punish members of the families killed with high litigation costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71808	The answer of the esteemed Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71809	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, Your Honor. So, as you know, there is a government regulation that prescribes rules, criteria and criteria for the process of write-down claims based on litigation costs, so this regulation, this sublegal act, and the rules by which the claim can be written off, in each specific case, therefore, on the proposal of the DORH, the Republic of Croatia, the request, that claim, can be written off. As regards specific cases, I do not have data at this time, which the number of cases are concerned and costs in all these cases, since it is the same in the domain of the judicial authority, however, it is also the view of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance that the revision and analysis of these costs and these court proceedings should be seen to amend the specific regulation, of course, not by bringing into a more favourable, or more favourable position of a particular party in judicial proceedings, so that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we will review and analyse, not only those costs, i.e. judicial proceedings and costs in those proceedings, but also the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71810	Dear representative of Shimprag.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71811	I thank the ministers. I would like to remind you that the debt write-off Regulation is closely written because of the poor material condition and many do not meet the criteria and many executive procedures have been initiated on their movable and immovable property. All these years, there's been a kind of lack of political will to solve this issue, I hope we're on the verge of a solution so that the civilian victims of war can somehow get satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71812	The next question will be asked by respected representative Vesna Bedekovic, Minister of Science, Education Radovan Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71813	Dear Prime Minister, Honored Vice President, Honored Minister, Honored Minister, Honored Minister of Science and Education Dr. Fuchs. In the term of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's government, from 2017 until today in Croatia, a total of 500 kindergartens have been built, built or reconstructed, or are still being built, but there are still regional differences on the coverage of pre-school education and education programmes and data show that children's greatest coverage of pre-school education is still in the most developed parts of Croatia. In the NPOO for the field of education and science and a record 7.5 billion kuna has been allocated, and part of these funds is certainly intended for the construction of kindergartens in those environments where it is necessary. And so I ask you for information on how much of these funds in the amount of 7.5 billion kuna from NPOO are intended for the construction of kindergartens? And the second question, more specifically, when will the first competition for the construction of kindergartens in Croatia be launched? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71814	The answer of the Honorable Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71815	Mr. Vice-President of HS, Representative Bedekovic, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. It is precisely in the NPOO that 7.5 billion kuna is provided for reform procedures in education and in science and research, specifically as regards kindergartens or the idea that all children in the Republic of Croatia from 3rd to the year they go to school in kindergarten, or that the first year before the start of primary school is mandatory for all children, so on. For the preparatory year, additional kindergarten facilities should be built. They are, of course, different at this point from the county to the county, from those counties that are more advanced or more developed there is a greater coverage of children than others, especially in rural areas. In order to ensure equalisation, one billion and 620 million kunas have been provided for the construction and upgrade of kindergarten facilities, and at this point the information we have referred to for a moment for all municipalities or founders to provide us with data on the necessary capacities which, of course, are given in this questionnaire, information on demographic movements, on the existing state and forecasts of how much space will be needed. These data will soon be collected to the end and we intend to, or planned to make a call next month for the delivery of requests precisely in terms of the insurance of funds for the construction of those kindergartens. So by the end of the year, we go with the allocation of these allocations, after which the founders sign a contract with the ministry and carry out further procedures on their own, so they publish public tenders and select performers. As for the continuation of this reform process, for which a little more than five billion kunas are foreseen, it is being added to preschool and downgraded and building the capacities of primary schools, which is planned until 2030. all primary schools in the Republic of Croatia go to full-time teaching and, of course, what is imagined in the children's education process by this age, so until the start of high school education. This competition or call will be launched sometime in the first quarter of next year, so after this year, after we complete the allocation of funds to build kindergarten facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71816	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71817	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your reply. I'm glad you talked about kindergartens, but also about schools and the concept of school transition to work in one shift or all day school. As for the construction of kindergartens, it is indeed certain that there are still expressions of these regional differences in preschool programme coverage, I will say, for example, my Virovitica-Podravka County in which it has been in this five-year period since 2017. a total of 11 kindergartens have been built here that have contributed greatly to the Virovitica-Podravska County in all our municipalities to increase the coverage of children through early and pre-school education programmes and certainly Virovitica-Podravska County and kindergarten founders in our area, which are specifically the municipalities and cities preparing for this second part of the competition, so I also asked a question specifically when the competitions will be called. And I certainly have to say that 7.5 billion kunas in NPOO are planned for both kindergartens and primary schools, generally for science and education record. These are funds compared to never before, and I really agree that this amount of $1.62 billion will allow for an increase in the coverage of children and that by 2026 we will reach this target of 90%, and by 2030. complete coverage. As for the day-long teaching of one-way teaching, I must remind myself that it was a tendency, but also the unachieved goal of some former governments, before the government of Andrej Plenkovic, but this time there is one important difference because this time there is money provided, there are 7.5 billion kunas secured from the NPOO and I believe that this goal will be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71818	Thank you. Now, respected representative Josip Boris will question tourism and sports ministers Nikola Brnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71819	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Minister Brnjak. Here we approach the little end of the calendar year, behind us is a successful tourist season, its main part has passed, but it is still going on. Today you will meet numerous tourists still on the coast and on the continent, and we are all happy about it. The catering facilities are open, numerous hotels are open, I note, because it's important, we see what's happening to us in the neighborhood. Why is tourist season good, why are the results good? Here from the beginning of the year 13.4 million arrivals and more than 83 million overnights. It's almost 80% record 2019. When we look at fiscalized accounts right in the activities of tourism, accommodation, nutrition, etc. 83% of the 2019 score To what can we thank? Surely by the timely measures of this government. First the part concerning tourist workers, then the safety of tourists themselves, numerous test points, the entire tourism sector returned in the best possible way. I think the job conservation measure has shown that this sector can be returned within a year to the results they had in 2019. However, the successful season carries with it certain negative effects, especially the part we call mass tourism, which can be manifested in the overload of local infrastructure, but also in the threat of the environment itself. What my question today is which activities does the ministry take into account means that tourism is increasingly interested in the sustainability of destinations themselves, given that we have many tourists, but also in the desire to earn more, but perhaps less tourists and with more quality, with more quality facilities and tourism?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71820	Minister Nikola Brnjak's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71821	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Dear Parliamentarian Boris, you're right. So today's tourists are increasingly looking for tourist destinations that are sustainable and responsible tourist destinations. When we say sustainable tourism, we mean both ecological and economic and social sustainability, and it is a tourist-responsible and sustainable destination that also cares about the environment and respects local cultures and customs, as well as one that leads the interaction between tourism and the local community itself. And that is why the Ministry of Tourism and Sports began to develop the Sustainable Tourism Development Strategy until 2030. which will be adopted in HS next year and will address one of the key issues, which is the use, the question of using the space itself and the issue of balanced regional development and the issue of detachment from mass tourism and the role of local population precisely on the further development of sustainable tourism. The way we are going to implement the strategy itself is precisely the adoption of a new key Tourism Act, which will for the first time include indicators of sustainable, sustainable tourism. It is also all, therefore, that all the European funds available to us through the NPOOs that we have provided a tourism portfolio of 2.2 billion kuna of grants, whether through new funds that will be made possible through the multiannual financial framework, they go in the direction of sustainable and responsible tourism. This means that private tourist infrastructure will also be financed from local capacities, as well as public tourist infrastructure and, of course, that segment of the educational aspect that everyone must be sustainable and green. I would also announce the next project of the Ministry of Tourism, which is the beginning of next year with a portal of sustainable Croatian tourism, which will be one place from a source of funding, from projects that will be financed to seminars, conferences, ecological certification, and in this part there will be a public indexation of tourism sustainability. We will also make a mark of Croatian Sustainable Tourism which will be recognized among our tourists and, of course, throughout the tourist sector. And I would also like to mention at the climate conference in Glasgow a project which was initiated by the Ministry of Tourism and Sports and the Ministry of Economic Development and Sustainable Development, Economic and Sustainable Development and Agriculture, so this is a project of planting 1.3 million trees precisely with a goal, we all know that Croatia is a car destination and the calculation itself of all vehicles entering the Republic of Croatia, of course with the aim of compensating the emissions themselves from passenger cars and tourists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71822	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71823	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am pleased with your response, especially by announcing this important strategy, certainly this law that you are preparing, the programs that are ahead of us and I believe that these documents will be supported by the means that will come from or are opportunities from the NPOO and from the multiannual financial framework, and I believe that, given that we are always on time, and we have already started to prepare 2022, that the tourism sector will show in the following year that all this has been done in the past 2nd year. in these difficult times, it certainly makes sense and that we have shown both as a government and as a ministry that we know how to recognize their priorities and that they can appreciate it very much. to restore the effect we expect from them every year. I think that, here's all that you've announced, and it's very good for those people who are already watching the 2022 season today, and I can certainly, given the experience they have, given the two seasons we've been spending in the pandemic that in 2022, we'll really be ready to achieve record results and overcome everything we've had in 2019 and this 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71824	Let's go to Question 8, now Representative Andreja Maric will ask Health Minister William Beros, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71825	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister, 4th Wave of the Covid-19 Bukti pandemic. For weeks now, we've been counting thousands of newly infected people a day, over 10,000 people died because of Covid-19, the health system shoots at seams, hospitals are crowded with unvaccinated citizens, healthcare professionals fall off their feet. The profession, i.e. more medical and other health associations have already written to the government and the headquarters on the need for early introduction of stricter measures. I would like to remind you that five medical organizations called for the immediate introduction of six measures three weeks ago to prevent the collapse of the health system and slow down the pandemic. You only listened to the part and it was too late. I also remind myself that a year ago, I asked for more than one year to be tested in the course of the pandemic by mass-speed tests by all employees by companies, schools, health institutions, homes for older and powerless therefore everywhere where the closed space stays for hours together more people, even then you did not listen to it. Many citizens who do not want to be vaccinated, or tested, and even some of our fellow MPs who support them with their actions and statements are waving the thesis that vaccinees are also transferring the virus, so why don't we test them all. It's simply because it's too expensive and organisationally inconclusive and it's not even richer countries than we can afford. If we want to reduce the epidemic, we will not first target the vaccines that are much less transmitted by the virus but not vaccinated by many. However, just in order to minimise mantra and doubt that healthcare professionals spread the virus to patients that the vaccinated are transmitted to the infection as well as not vaccinated, I ask you, will you and when will you accept the proposal to do a test in health institutions all, on the one hand, not vaccinated twice a week for at least two weeks? So let's see how many positive are in which group and what's next? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71826	Thank you very much. Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71827	Thank you, Mr. President of HS. Dear MPs. The answer is this, so you mention testing what is extremely important in the control of the course of the epidemic, it is used. However, according to your request from a certain time ago, as you yourself said when circumstances were different, the scientific and professional evaluation of vaccinations has led to certain conclusions that have been professionally and scientifically justified, which is that vaccines are more likely to suffer from this disease, that they are vaccinated when they suffer from severe disease and vaccines are more difficult to pass on the virus to others. These are certain attitudes not only of the Croatian epidemiological profession but of the world and European epidemiological professions. When we add to this the latest studies of the Netherlands and Scotland that evaluated the transmission in families between vaccinated and unvaccinated households, it has been demonstrated that they are vaccinated against their households that carry 63% less infection, and to those who are not vaccinated 40%. In addition, Scotland has conducted a study of healthcare professionals who came home after their job, those who were vaccinated once a dose also significantly reduce the possible transmission of the virus to their hosts within 30% of 14 days after the administration of the vaccine and 54% after the two doses received. These evidence clearly indicates that vaccines carry the virus less to others. You're talking about the health system and I welcome your care for the same, and so are we. The epidemiological profession of Croatia in several recent weeks has discussed what and how to fix in the health system, but I will tell you this, the transmission of the virus between the employees, whether to the patients is smaller than in the earlier waves is the consequence of the course of vaccination. Furthermore, in the healthcare system everyone wears masks and all must adhere to epidemiological measures. Of course, with all this and exceptional transmission of the virus can occur, but at this point the waist is very clear, and this not only Croatian but European profession suggests that testing would not in these circumstances increase the safety of the health system. What can increase safety and what we need to be targeted for is an increase in the volume of vaccination because by increasing the fibrillation, we reduce virus transmission in society, especially if we think about the degree of immunisation. So the answer to your question is let's focus on vaccination, let's focus on the use of the third so-called. 6 months after receiving the second dose. This increases our immunity, reduces the chance of disease and reduces the chance of transmission to others. But in order to completely eliminate any doubt, we have suggested what the profession has accepted, implementing a pilot project in some of our hospitals that will be tested and looked at the titre of the antibodies of our health care professionals to be absolutely safe. However, this is not a political question, this is a question of profession and the profession is a very clear attitude that I have given you in this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71828	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71829	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. And you and I are a profession, and you don't really have to interpret to me what the benefits of vaccination are, and why together we do what we do and you and I do why we motivate people and our citizens to split. I don't think it's time for pilot projects just by some medical institutions, but it needs urgent and concrete action. I have personally said on several occasions make a valid costbenefit analysis of how much it costs to mass-test a particular population, let's say health professionals explain this to you, how much it costs the day of treatment and the respirator for all those who, due to the late introduction of measures, had to hospitalize or get sick, how many economic aspects, and show it all to us in the Parliament and our public. And here's exactly what I've been telling you, if you test around 70,000 health workers as many as we are in the system, about 68,000, 70, over two weeks, twice a week, say Monday and Thursday, in four tests per person times, let's say 50 kuna, we figure that 80% of the vaccinated 20% is not what we're testing, 80% of 70,000 is 56,000 over two weeks, that's an additional 11.2 million kuna if we're counting the 75 kuna test, that's about 16 million 800 thousand kuna. That's a little bit compared to those 1.1 billion kuna we've spent on tests so far. These results would show on one side how positive they are among the vaccines at all, so that you finally have an argument for those who present the wrong thesis that both vaccinated and not vaccinated equally carry the virus. And on the other hand, if it turns out they didn't have a number of them, then it really makes sense to test everything in our system and our social care system. So in two days if you test 60,000 and separate 1400 positive people who think they're healthy, then that's benefit, is that Covid's certificate or the EU passport, irrelevant. Please write an answer to the question and please, the written answer which You owe me from last session, the current one. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71830	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That's what we're gonna bring up in the end. We are now going to the next parliamentary issue, colleague Katarina Peovic, asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71832	Good afternoon, Prime Minister Plenkovic. I have a question for you about reminding you what you did 20 months ago. 20 months ago, at the beginning of the Covid pandemic, you were trying to pass a law on the regulation of working relationships under the circumstances of the Covid-19 disease epidemic. The law, fortunately, has been halted by the Confederation's reaction to European trade unions. With this law, you wanted to suspend a large part of labour rights, you learned a lesson, you reacted because you enjoy a career in the EU, every European institution that responds has ears that listen to you. You learned a lesson about what to do now. For almost two years in secret, you've been holding negotiations on the Labour Act. Fortunately, details have come out about this Labour Act, you said you would arrange platform work with this Labour Act, all workers in Croatia will become platform workers. You said you'd settle no, contracts that aren't, which are insecure labor contracts, by which we're the first in Europe. All labor contracts will become insecure. We have the lowest employment rate, no one will get a new job because you will redistribute working hours to existing workers, there will be no need for new employment. We have established an initiative for the Workers' Zor, thanks to our colleagues and colleagues who have joined this initiative here, we will invite people on the street to strike, to protest, that is the reason, and that is the moment where you derogate workers' rights and use Covid to actually work against your people. Why are you doing this? Because you decided to race to the bottom. Because you don't build competitiveness at the Naval Institute you're now closing but you're buying.../incomprehensible/... Rafael's fighter planes for a billion euros, you're going to shake Macron's hand today, you're going to buy those planes, you're going to shut down Brodarski. What exactly are you doing?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71833	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71834	Good afternoon, dear MP Peovic. Now let's first that thesis that has already been mentioned today about this famous Brussels that makes me do all this. So give me, please, tell me, I can say, SDPs 1 and 2. Why didn't Picula come back to be president of the SDP? Why didn't the Stock Exchange become president of the SDP? What did Kolakusic run into Brussels where no one knows him? Which you live in Sincic fled there for 8,000 euros, business class, mask, vaccination probably, I don't know or at least test and act on the square with people who may be uninformed, in fear, have some problem, actors, cheaters for 8,000 euros to lead the people after him. So that's the point, and please ask colleagues of others who came back from the EU Parliament in the middle of a term other than me and Stier in Zagreb? At a salary which is 6,000 euros less. So is that enough? That's what Mrs. Devereaux said. Mrak-Taritash, this is repeated by Zekanovic, repeated by Bulj, repeated by Milanovic, so you have already come here. Well, it's such a nonsens. It's even logically wrong and embarrassing. Well, if that were the case, I guess you'd stay up there. So stop it, you're bored. You pass it on to one, the other, the third, quote, so why didn't these come back? Where's Mimica? Is he in Croatia? Where is he? Ma'am. Peovic, keep it to yourself, you're degutant. And not just you, but everyone along with it. Second, about what we're proud of. What are we proud of? In our term of office, ma'am. Peovic, higher employment, higher wages, higher pensions, higher social benefits, growing GDP, a third country in the EU, 9% this year, according to our estimates, 8.9% Fitch, 8.5 per CNB, 8.1 revised autumn forecasts by the EU commission. Export growth, investment growth, tourism revenue growth, credit rating, Hops, see, one stufu more within the investment credit rating. What's lower? The lower taxes, the lower unemployment, the lower the public debt, the lower the deficit, we've had you three times, three times the budget surplus. If it wasn't for Covid, we'd have less than 65 next year than 60% of GDP. Those are your realities. Salaries? We've raised the minimum wage now with a decision in October to 3750 kuna. The first time goes above 50% and average and media pay. Employment rate 2020. 66.9%. Dialogue with social partners, with economic and social partners, trade unions, employers, permanent. And you object to us whether we work for workers or not. The government that said, people, we have the biggest crisis ever, we stand behind workers and employers in the private sector, 700 thousand people get paid from the budget, and it works in the private sector. 120,000 companies didn't go bankrupt. 40 billion kuna cost of Covid. And you're asking me if we're going to the bottom and maybe I'm buying Rafael because I don't know what else to do. Get serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71835	Here's your answer. My colleagues Peović, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Hajdukovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71836	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He's been injured. 137 and 238. Namely, the prime minister obviously has a red-colored fetish, so he's talking about SDPs 1, 2. But you still run HDZ 1 which is equal to corruption, as the court said, Mr. Plenkovic. You prefer to accept the eradication of corruption, rather deal with it, rather answer the question because it is degutant how you avoid answering questions about corruption and issues that are extremely important to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71837	Comrade Hajduković, you are being warned, this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you have used the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71838	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. I very rarely raise a staff injury to the Rules of Procedure, very rarely, but this time because I was forced to call on an article. 238, but give the President of the Assembly to you to hold the session. That the prime minister of one state comes to the current morning and the parliamentary deputies all in a row says you're all degutant to me, so I think the time has come to say enough and to introduce order into this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71839	Comrade Mrak-Taritash, that's not true what you're saying right now. He made it very clear to whom it went, and to those who sent him... Wait a minute, so I didn't warn any of you about the words you used when you asked questions or commented afterwards, and there were very rough formulations, I follow and insult someone, so no one got a warning. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So don't ask when someone from the government answers that I'm warning him now because he fought back the same way. I won't. So you're getting a warning because you're replicating it. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71840	President-in-Office HS, violation of the Rules of Procedure. 238, the Prime Minister demeans the parliamentary representatives, even those who are not here with us today by calling them degutants, and you would even think when I listen to him running honey and milk in Croatia, he really does flow honey and milk as if we were in Switzerland. Go around Nova Gradiška a little, visit the village, visit the villages around the Brod, around Požega, around Vukovar, devastated and burned ground. It's not as great as you think it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71841	Comrade Pavliček, thank you very much, you get a warning, this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica. Now, a colleague of Peovic will express satisfaction or no satisfaction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71842	Well, I'm sure it's not a pleasure. Prime Minister Plenkovic, we do not mention your European career because we are worried that you will work after your premiere chair, we mention a European career because your moves now reflect your appetites and your intentions. You don't work for your country, you really run a race to the bottom, you shut down shipping, you buy planes, you do it for yourself, you don't do it for the working majority. And these numbers you've listed, I'm very glad that you've listed them, I'm really happy, one three times you've repeated the increase in the number of employees, all the time you're manipulating, you're counting among the employees of those who are insurance companies, you're manipulating tens of thousands of people who are not employed, who are, who are insurance workers. You never mention a number of nearly a million people who spin their thumbs at home who aren't employed, but are able to work. You don't mention the number of 17.6% of the working-age population evicted, some say it's over 370,000 people. You've opened up jobs for who? You are now leading the ZOR in such a way that you want to train workers to agree to low-paid, poor jobs, to turn this country into a land of maids, maids and waiters, and to move out highly educated, and we will no longer have them because the capacities in colleges for higher education are closing and all you want to do is train your people to do those poorly paid bad jobs that we are reduced to your work. And don't manipulate statistics, you never state the employment rate or you said this time, but you didn't say that we have the lowest employment rate in Europe that only three countries are behind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71843	Let's go to question 10 now, MP Davorko Vidovic will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71844	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, about two months ago you counted your government's top priorities and what you'll remember about them, so there were the Rafal, Peljeski Bridge, Schengen, the euro and the restoration of the earthquake affected areas. Two weeks ago, you mentioned forects again in one context, but it turned out to be this one, of course, the last recovery by the earthquake affected areas. I would believe that it is your failure in this second case that in the meantime a document called "The Social and Economic Revitalisation Programme of Supported Areas of Sisak-Moslavina County affected by the earthquake" has not appeared in public. I have to say without exaggeration even though I've read a lot of documents of this kind that I've never seen 130 more empty, hollower and poorer pages, the most unspeakable pages of something called or wanted to be called a program. So, what is evident from the so-conceived proposal of the programme shows that obviously, although I hoped in January that it was, you did not realise the fact that Sisak-Moslavina County is the only one in Croatia that diversifies compared to Croatia. It diverges, therefore, not to develop more slowly but to go backwards, that it is the county that has been hit by the biggest disaster in the last 100 years, that it is a county that has no economic, fiscal, or demographic capacity to rebuild without, without, state. And so I ask you, have you really read this proposal, are you behind such a proposal of the programme and do you think of yourself as a government, not as the ministry to which you put it really into this project to include and put it as an important priority for your government?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71845	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71846	Dear Representative Vidovic, firstly, I think that the two of us agree on a lot of issues and on the assessment of the situation of Sisak-Moslavina County. You are from Sisak, I think that better than I am than many members of the government, perhaps lately, Vice President Medved, Vice President Milosevic, Minister Horvat and all members of the headquarters who are on a weekly basis, practically 10 months, which in Petrinja, Sisak, Glini, Kostajnica or other parts that this earthquake hit are somewhere around your level of knowledge about what has been accumulated in Sisak-Moslavina County and from the legacy of the socialist system and from the transition and from the Homeland War and from the demographic deficit and from the earthquakes now. If there is a synthesis on the Croatian map where all the troubles that have hit us for the last 30 years have been combined, intertwined and left severe consequences, then it is Sisak-Moslavina County. I say that all the time. At all the internal meetings, here are your members of the government, when we talk about this county I start with that position. And if it hadn't been for the earthquake, we should have done a program like this. Is that what you and I agree on? I think we agree. The government's motive, all the resistors to help people in Sisak-Moslavina County is enormous. We did this and we do these things that concern temporary accommodation, support, electricity write-offs, televisions, highways, railways, and I don't know what not, heating, anything we could do to facilitate the difficult position of people in Sisak-Moslavina County, we did. We've changed together and this Restitution Act to make things more pro-pulsory. I have here, counting on you to ask me these papers in five to ten minutes to tell you what we've done, I'll give it to you because we're good. What I would like you to understand, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Economy who worked together on this document with external experts, have prepared a framework. Project framework, investment framework, task framework, all possible actors to help economic recovery, the social situation in Sisak-Moslavina County and earthquake recovery. It's a process that will take years. Maybe that document isn't perfect, maybe it can be better, maybe some other experts had other ideas, but what we're sure to do is we're going to invest in that county. The other day we made a decision on those earthquake loans affected the areas, I think that we finally agreed 170 million kuna with Mayor Celjak, it went more to Sisak-Moslavina County than it did to Zagreb only as a final example. And not to mention the other means that we've given, which we're giving, here's the other day to Petrinja 30 million kunas and other ways done. We'll act on a continuous basis. Maybe you're not happy with that document in all its elements. We heard him, they introduced him to us, it was up to him, he's here, if walking needs to be fixed with additional elements that will speed up these processes of our care of Sisak-Moslavina County, then that's good. I don't know if Minister Butkovic is here or not, the first thing we said to solve is Lekenik Sisak. Lekenik Sisak must be resolved by the end of this government's term however we turn, and then we will be coming to Sisak from Zagreb literally in 30 minutes. And if it doesn't raise the economics I don't know what to do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71847	Thank you very much. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71848	As long as it's a project that's been transferred and downgraded from the government level to the level of one proven failure of the ministry and I don't mean just the current minister and the current government. The proof of this is the regional collapse of Croatia, emigration, depopulation, emptying of space, and other than Zagreb and some narrow coasts, Croatia is extinct, disappears and collapses. To rely on the concept of reconstruction, on existing institutions, on laws that give such an outcome as the outcome of what we now have is indeed the way to nothing. You have a program in which there is really no concrete project, mentioning the construction of the port, mentioning the refinery of biodiesel for which half of Croatia should plant an oily tail or whatever it is that it functions and imagines being mentioned, which particularly irritated by 3 billion kunas that will invest the second track track from Long Sela to Novska and will be like a project that will help revitalize Sisak and Banija. Please who, who will come to live in Glin or the Court because the goods will be transported faster from Germany to Turkey or this one to Greece. So, with no numbers, no deadlines, no wearers, it's not a program. This you understand my question more as pledoies, as a request, as a request, however you will, to gather all that we can gather in this country, that in the.../incomprehensible/... big problem, I am not reducing anything that has been done. 140,000 people still live in that space. It's our place where our citizens live to get them. to revitalize life in it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71849	Now it is up to the respected representative Bulj, who is asking Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic the question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71850	Prime Minister, you're a lawyer, your headquarters makes a decision under the supervision of the government, Civil Protection Headquarters. How is it possible for the headquarters to make decisions on measures beyond the law to take the measure of introducing Covid's certificate first, and only after that is the legislation proposed for Covid's certificates? Before the summer, Covid's certificates were introduced in the EU, on the 10th, on the 9th, 10th month you and your ministers said there was no reason nor will be introduced into Croatia's Covid certificate. Now, over the weekend, within three days, illegally, as forest robbers, as road robbers, you have introduced illegal Covid certificates with which you have divided the people. And that is proof to you, Prime Minister, alone, of this law on the punishments of those who do not respect them, which means that you have unlawfully brought this measure. As a lawyer, this was not expected primarily to divide the Croatian people during the difficult times of the Covid crisis. Thank you very much, if I can answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71851	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71852	Honorable and dear representative and mayor Bulj, how did you get into the assembly? Here I am when I came in... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] We're not far from code, the two of us. But it seems to me or did you show someone what I am, it's Covid's confirmation, I don't know if you've been vaccinated, maybe you haven't, but then, I don't know if you're over it, you haven't, then you've certainly been tested. Wait, it's not exactly what it is now. [[And now what?]] We can't, it's not exactly what it is now. How can we folkally say my man and a half from Sinj paint on Saturday counter wipe, and this morning take the wipe and come to the assembly. How about some coffee in a coffee shop in Sinj for a drink? Is wipe a problem or isn't it? Is it a problem or not? It doesn't seem to me, and if it's a bit of a shear, what is it, shears, but it doesn't hurt. And there's a big difference in humanity, the heroism of an Alkarian guy, whether he's getting away with it or not. I don't think it hurts. And I can't help but think of one such mayor and a man as a little wipe that lasts 0.3 seconds as a problem. And who does he share it with? Who does he share? Secondly, have we introduced a certificate for health institutions and social institutions over two months ago? We did. If we said it was smart, here's a lot of doctors because there's patients, there's people in fragile health, it wouldn't be bad if we had a little higher level of safety if our people were being vaccinated, over and tested. We did. Is that what caused some big drama? No, it's not real. It was there and there were some who had a problem, but given the amount of people that covered the scope of that decision, nothing. So what's the problem now? The fourth wave of intense, dying 60 to 70 people a day, unfortunately, 63% of the people were vaccinated with the first dose. I wish 93, as Mr. Grbin said, were nothing less clever than others, only there they were all scared somehow or more or they understood better, say Portugal when they had a crisis where the ambulance had to wait their turn to bring patients with Covid who couldn't get health care because the name practically collapsed the health system so they got a little scared and now they're over 90%. It didn't happen to us. Willy's here. What are we doing with this? We're picking up filters. We want more people who have been tested. Here's the information, Bozinovic said yesterday on a tight cabinet. 48,000 antigenic 690 positive tests, those 690 would come to the government, to the parliament, to the ministry, and there would work, would be close to someone and infect other people. One of these people would end up in an oxygen hospital, on high-flower oxygen, on a respirator, on an ECMO and then die. What's the problem with the test? Who do we share, who do we share? We help people. And it's not good to do anything with the bogeyman, not Arsen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71853	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71854	The prime minister didn't choose us to keep our mouths shut but to speak and to tell the truth. And we, personally for the right to choose, are being tested without you. I didn't vaccinate, I didn't get over it. I'm a voluntary blood donor, and the other day I gave blood. I took a gun younger than you when it was supposed to be taken, you didn't take it, and you could, you didn't, the reasons I don't know. You say it. But I'm talking about something very important here. You've illegally forced people on this paper. It's illegal for him to show it. I've made it possible for all employees in Sinj city to be tested if they want to, to be able to be whole if they want to, if they don't want to be vaccinated. And you're introducing a dictatorship really like forest robbers, within three days illegally, illegally, I'm not afraid of testing, I'm not afraid of you like you are. You're scary, you prime minister. Because when it took a number of people, the sons of this society took a rifle, you didn't. So let's talk seriously about this problem, you've divided the Croatian people. I'm not against the vaccinated and unvaccinated. I'm not against those who want to be tested. I just sent a message that I'm the mayor of all and vaccinated and unvaccinated and that everyone has to have the same service. It's the right choice. But not illegal, illegal. That your headquarters is making illegal decisions and measures that have been shared by families, colleagues in companies, people in city, local, state institutions, police.../incomprehensible... guards a police officer, guards a police officer. No major division has done more than Prime Minister Plenkovic has done with his decisions of coercion abolishing the rights and freedom of people, their movements and their rights to work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71855	Thank you very much, fellow Bull. Let's go to 12 questions from representative Sandra Bencic asking him to the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71857	It has become quite evident to the Prime Minister since the last act, that as Prime Minister you cannot control either the government or your own party as its president, so I will only list some of the most serious affairs of your government and your party, unfortunately only this month because it no longer fits in two minutes. First, after your party was declared responsible for corruption, and then you said it was an old HDZ, now a new HDZ is coming, and November 2021, which begins by pressing charges against one of your members, Jurica Šiljeg, former president of the Istrian HDZ, because he was setting up with NP Brijuni employment for some of the people in that park. It's just a little thing, I can see that you're probably wondering what it is because these kind of affairs are mostly going under the radar because the hospice the second day is coming bigger, literally the second day, the affair of the Grill. Mrs. Gralac has been arrested for setting up a 13 million kuna job for her friend Shimunac, which is worth a maximum of 2 in real life through a cover firm with one employee. Your reaction, it's a great expert, and it's worth the presummation of innocence, the note bene takes otherwise support from the city of Vinkovac for the development of entrepreneurship. That she was taken, we know. It is not all along with her was arrested and Petric, and you knew that along with her since 2018 it has been responsible for the same affair, and you appointed him again in 2020. There is also the Croatian lottery affair again your member, once again drawn millions of kunas. And please answer us at the end of this month, do you now realize that you can't control corruption in either your government or your party? and that there is no country in the EU that would [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] You submitted that amount of government affair in one month? [[Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague Bencic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71858	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71859	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bencic. How's it going with the last up-and-coming in Holding? Is there anything else we can read? As you come to Holding sports with some title of quiet, quiet gray eminence of human affairs, we can. Is that right? What kind of title do you wear that is so important and powerful that you're exactly the main, quiet, man-to-man in Holding? That's what the Zagreb public is waiting to understand. I'd like to know the same, let's say it interests me that you're so important that he asks you, even with some interesting actors who show up at the Holding and schedule who's going to do what. It's the same question we should be counting on. Now you're telling me how to control something, I don't have to control anything, I don't have to control anything. I repeat, you and everyone else use it, try, it doesn't work, it doesn't work. The government functions on the basis of the government's three-division, you are the same lawyer as a colleague, there are bodies that have the title in this country to do their job independently, whether they DORH, USKOK, the police, or they were now on the basis of our will, not yours, the European Public Prosecutor's Office and if they need to control whether any illegalities occur anywhere, they do so and they will do so. No untouchable, everything has its name and name, no generalization, no flossules. You understand, that's the essence and message of what's called fighting corruption. That's where you adopted the Anti-Corruption Strategy, you're going to adopt another set of laws that prepares the government to strengthen the mechanisms of fighting corruption, which is a phenomenon that we don't want to fight. So if someone and who's a HDZ member gets in a position to answer, they'll answer. No coverage, no influence, no secret warrants, no advance information on secret reconnaissances, no practices that existed during the SDP government, no. The DORH works on its own, the USKOK works on its own, the police work on their own. It's a very important element that I'd like you to be aware of, that all the colleagues and colleagues in HDZ and those who have confidence in behaving a duty, some directly from the citizens, and some of the foundations of the majority that we form. They have a chance to work by law and for the good of everyone. If someone makes a mistake and eventually prove himself guilty in legal proceedings, he will answer. But if you put it all together within a framework that pleases you, we will not, neither will your voters, because we are in power, and you are in opposition. You have received trust in Zagreb, and you as a gray eminence have nothing to do with the mayor's meetings, heads of holding, frames, determines this one there, this one there. How, how, for what? Quietly, no one knows. Congratulations, this is a new management methodology.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71860	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71861	Your Honor, Prime Minister. To talk nonsense and talk, I knew it, but I didn't know you were lying so openly. You see, you're sick of the fact that I've never physically entered your Holding, ever. You're sick of the fact that when I go to a meeting in Zagreb and I go as a member of the working body of the mayor for waste because I am among other things the president of the Committee on the Environment, so it's quite embarrassing for you to say as prime minister that you don't have to control anything, as president of the party that you don't have to control anything is the fact that you don't even control it. So I'll tell you again, and while you're at staffing a little bit about your staffing, here's to your Home Secretary, for example. Your Minister of the Interior is directly responsible for obstructing the investigation into little girl Hosseini Madina who died because of that, because of illegal rifles at the border. The responsible European court ruled, you will defend him, of course, until the moment you become excess. Our minister, Banozic, who rides on an annual military plane because it's cheaper than a helicopter, a great human choice. Not to mention your institutional framework for the DORH which you are now boasting is doing a great job. He's doing a great job, so he'd never have been prosecuted by Zalac, he'd never have been prosecuted by Petric if there wasn't a European Prosecutor's Office. And you say institutions are doing their job because you left them alone because you control nothing. And you don't control your own client.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71862	Now let's go to Question 13, Agent Ante Deur will appoint him Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tommy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71863	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Vice-President and Croatian Defence Ministers, we could see that the cemetery was restored, new facilities were built by the arrival of a memory column at the Vukovar Memorial Cemetery. Can you please tell us what this is about and do you have plans to continue the construction? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71864	Here's your answer, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71865	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, MPs and MPs. Dear Representative Deur, you have well noticed the activities that we are intensively carrying out at the Memorial cemetery of the victims of the Homeland War in Vukovar. So, deeply aware of the fact that Vukovar has a fateful place in the history of today's Croatia and in forming a national identity. In this light, our government reminds us that it has passed several or several laws. One of them is where Vukovar was declared a place of special homeland petite. We also installed the 18th November as a holiday, or an unworkday, as the Day of Remembrance of all the victims of the Homeland War, and mainly the victims of Vukovar and Skabrnj. I also remind you that we have categorized the hospital in Vukovar as the National Memorial Hospital, all of which is on the trail of our contribution to the preservation, memory and release of the piteotic victims of Vukovar. The memorial cemetery of victims in the Homeland War in Vukovar is the central place of tribute to the victims of the Homeland War since the peaceful reintegration and its establishment since the first identifications, the first burials, when in fact the Memorial cemetery of the victims of the Homeland War is as formed. Given the status of the Memorial cemetery as such unique in the Republic of Croatia, its maintenance and conservation, as well as further editing is within the jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry and in this light we started the process of arrangement of the Memorial cemetery. In the first step we have arranged, or for now we have completed the administrative building, or we have reconstructed the administrative building and built it up. What is particularly important, and in the next step will be positioned or installed in that administrative building will be a centre for visitors, a centre where info panel will be with all relevant indicators of the creation of the Memorial cemetery, of all exhumed victims, of all buried Croatian defenders at the Memorial cemetery of victims of the Homeland War in Vukovar. Of course, in the segment of other activities related to the cemetery, a great step has been made, so the whole cemetery is surrounded by a solid fence. We're following the second phase, building a chapel because it's a cemetery that doesn't have a chapel and a hall, an escort hall. What we continue anyway is the formation and the new field, unfortunately a large number of Croatian defenders of the Vukovar defense are dying and as the ministry we will take care of this, we will form a new field that we have the possibilities for burial. What is certainly one of the most painfully open wounds are ours gone, and for our missing, we have secured graves, and in light of the search for their fate and resolution, we are making huge efforts. Thank you for noticing this step that the ministry has made, with the full support of all the resources in the government, and that we will certainly continue to do further for Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71866	Comrade Deur, please choose an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71867	Thank you, Minister, thank you to the government, thank you as Minister for everything you do, above all for Vukovar as a symbol not only of the victims but of the Croatian people in resistance then to the great-serb aggression. Thank you for both the missing and the missing, but also for the whole incentive, something that is not only your government, but the whole social community, that's what's important, it's gone, one, one great to all Croatian people, all citizens, it's what we all have to bear together and give the opportunity and support in everything you do to find every Croatian soldier, policeman and civilian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71868	Thank you. Comrade Mlinarić, you have requested the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71869	238, insult of parliamentary deputies. This play between Ante Deur and Secretary of the Bears, I must say...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71870	My fellow Mlinaric, what has offended you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71871	It is wrong to say, except for things, one thing well said is that he is preparing a cemetery for Croatian defenders who die very young.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71872	No, no, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71873	I'm the one who said disdaining a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71874	In what way?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71875	To tell lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71876	What are you talking about? Excuse me, have a seat, get a warning, don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71877	232.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71878	You can't if you're unhappy with the answer
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71879	Mr. Jandrokovic, as per Article 232, you must give me 27 seconds to say mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71880	No, I don't. My colleague Mlinarić does not, when I feel that someone is not saying what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure... /Intruder Mlinarić:... Read 238. [[You don't understand.]] If you like, I'll read it to you so there won't be any confusion over our viewers. So you can't get... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71881	I know that you must protect...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71882	Wait a minute, I'll read it to you. Therefore, “Advocacy during the debate shall not speak about a subject which is not subject to discussion, speak without prior approval of the president, its incursions or otherwise interfere with the speaker,” and what is now important “to start talking about another topic which has not been addressed if it has reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.” So you cannot replicate now Anti Deura or the Prime Minister. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't like the two of them talking. You think that's not true, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and please sit down. Now it is time for counterpart Nadica Dreven Buddinski to ask questions to the minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy Josip Aladrovic. Before that, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Glamuzine's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71884	Good afternoon. The Honorable President of the Assembly was injured in article 239, which says: “The MP will be told if he acts contrary to Article 238.” Article 238 does not say anywhere that you, guided by your feelings, can decide who has hurt the Rules of Procedure and who has not, so enter it in the Rules of Procedure or no longer... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71885	Comrade Glamuzine, you're trying to be funny but you're not. So I'll read it to you too. Therefore, ‘Advocacy shall not be allowed to take place during the hearing’ under 4. “to start talking about another topic that was not mentioned if he reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.” So here all of you present are fully aware that there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure and that Col. Mlinarić was trying to replicate. Yes, I have to assess the basis of this. I don't know what you're estimating based on. ... Come on, please, I won't argue with you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're getting a warning. Here you go, Comrade Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71886	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers and ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Minister, I have a question for the Minister of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy. Dear Ministers, Ministry of Employment and the Croatian Employment Institute continuously encourage the inclusion of all unemployed persons in the labour market with special emphasis on young people who enter the labour market for the first time. This is achieved through the implementation of active employment policy measures. From October 2016 to October 2021, 5.6 billion kuna were invested and 171 thousand people were included. About 1/3 are young. The ministry has brought a number of support: support for employment, support for completion, support for self-employment, education and training, support for job conservation and permanent seasonal. By the end of 2025, a total of 26 thousand 400 people are planned to be included in these measures. My question to you is, what are your plans for active employment policy measures in the coming period?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71887	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71888	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Dear MPs, I thank you for the question that concerns active employment policy measures. So, as you have provided accurate data of more than 5 billion, 5 and a half billion kuna has so far been invested in active employment policy measures in the mandate of the two Governments of Andrej Plenkovic. We also need to add 12 and a half billion kuna measures to preserve jobs because these are complementary measures depending on the economic moment we are in or where we were. So over the past year and a half, because of the economic crisis, we've been forced to keep jobs, we've been forced to form measures that have been used to preserve jobs, and we've invested more than 12, so 12 and a half billion kuna net, almost 18 billion kunas when all of this is added, and that's actually reflected in more than 700 thousand workers in the Republic of Croatia. Today we have about 20,000 employees more than we had in 2019. We have the highest number of employees since 2008 and we have 42,000 about employees more than we had last year. Now before us we are sure that there is not only more time for which it was necessary to preserve jobs and measures that were necessary for this, but for measures to create jobs. In this context, the active employment policy measures will go towards job creation, for 2022 we provided more than a billion kuna. In parallel, we have provided more than a billion and 100 million kunas in the National Recovery Plan itself and resistance to creating or creating jobs in digital industries or digital jobs and green jobs. So, all those who go infavorous to green and digital transition. What we expect in the next period is to increase employment rates, increase employment rates and reduce unemployment rates and reduce the number of unemployed citizens in the Republic of Croatia. I am sure that very soon we will reach the figures that will be in absolute terms the largest of the independence of the Republic of Croatia. We have already heard in earlier answers to the questions that what we expect from economic growth, the labour market will definitely feel that, the labour market will feel all those active policies that make up the government and that ultimately the government's economic policy forms and we expect that we will have a better and better situation in the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71889	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71890	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am pleased with the answer, and, of course, we must repeat that these job conservation measures, especially in this most difficult 2020 and 21st year, are very welcome not only for workers, but also for employers who have here continued to work continuously in the economy. In fact, our economy is growing. I can now only set an example in Varazdin County, if it hadn't been for these measures, it certainly wouldn't have been an increase and so much exports, such economic trends, meaning there weren't such measures to preserve jobs and of course thank you for all of you and your ministry, especially the government that takes great care of young people and doesn't go out just because they're not satisfied in Croatia. Of course, new markets are opening up and they need to see it, but trust me by talking on the ground, especially coming back and using these self-employment measures a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71891	Now it is MP Davor Bernardic's turn to ask the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71892	Dear President of the Parliament. I refer the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. So, a few days ago, you got a new slap from Brussels for corruption, and at least once you liked to boast that you were just a anti-corruption fighter, as you liked to boast and with your reputation that you allegedly have in Brussels, and do you think you still have it since this time you haven't been slapped because of the powerful verdict of Ivo Sanader to your MVEP political mentor, they haven't even slapped you for the final judgment of the HDZ that you're headed. You've been clapped this time for your protégé and your close associate, members of the HDZ presidency, Gabriela Žalac, whom you love so much today. Therefore, the suspicion of corruption in this case proved justified and it was clear to OLAF, the institution that controls European funds, was also clear to the European prosecutor, the only one who did not understand it was the DORH. Perhaps you know the answer why it was not clear to them, as I remind you, according to the press director Vanja Marusic admitted that the case was not forwarded to the European prosecutor, but she and him also didn't tell Hrvoj Šipek why they didn't forward the case to the European prosecutor. My question, do you know why they didn't forward it because Gabriela Grief is unfortunately not the only one? She is one of the 14 ministers who had to leave your past government because of suspicion of corruption, and it is quite indicative that these 14 DORH ministers have so far done absolutely nothing. So, do you have any idea why the DORH isn't acting exactly when it comes to your close associates?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71893	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71894	Dear Representative Bernardic. Long time but see, this is the first time I've heard you almost after the meeting and 25 differences on July 5th when you were still leading the SDP, and these have kicked you out of the SDP, in tone, style, the way you speak, and you haven't learned a single single lesson from that painful 25-year defeat, nothing. I'm sorry, I usually liked you and loved you, and I had the impression that you were some new young generation, but so many flossules, so much reading of the portal, so much constant repetition of nothing, and nothing original. It's not good for you. You're only 41 years old, there's plenty of room for progress, but not constantly repeating the same scales, it's not good for you whatever you're doing in the future. So, I have to do it again for the public because I see you're sticking to those issues, and then we'll explain everything. So, if as people like you were writing in the media or pummeling in the political and public area of the HZD judiciary then I'd probably pick up the phone and tell the President of the Supreme Court, please give it back to the council in which President Ranko Marijan is Deputy Minister of Justice from Racan's government and get it back to county. Don't bother us with that. Let the county handle it for another 10 years. But there is no such thing, nor is it in my code to do so, nor would the Croatian judiciary, the Supreme Court do so. I have nothing against Mr. Marian or... council members. So, the thesis on the HDZ justice system of the floscule, the hollow story, doesn't stand, proven, 100 times presented to the public, but you and others like you don't want to hear it, as Mr. Bulj doesn't want to admit that he tested himself today when he entered the Parliament, and Saturday he said he was in pain with a wipe. It's the same logic. The state's attorney's office, the USKOK, the European Public Prosecutor's Office, you'll all have an independent debate on the work of the DORH for 2020 soon, you have to ask these questions there. So, unlike the predecessors and yours and what's also called Grbin's Milanovic, who openly says Urbi et orbi without any fence, I knew about the secret reconnaissances, I don't know I don't care, I don't think I remember knowing what processes the judicial bodies run that I repeat once again are independent and independent. The European authorities, and in this case OLAF does not exist for Croatia, there is a legal spending of European funds in all Member States wherever it is. There's no, as you said the rain you were talking about, there's no, there's no objects, there's a name and there's a name, there's a procedure, there's a legal procedure, there's a possible determination of responsibility. No generalization, no drama thanks to our efforts, not your 25 billion euros for Croatia for the next 10 years. You didn't bring anything, zero, zero, zero. You keep these floscules to yourself, you better not talk than talk, you're not gonna help yourself, you're not gonna win the ratings, you're not gonna get re-elected, you're gonna have a shorter political career than you're supposed to have. I'm truly sorry, I'm speaking to you in favor, not against you. It's like we're in a campaign in June. This is how we fell. Like lead and you haven't picked it up yet. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Pity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71895	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71896	I can see you didn't listen to me very well, or you're deliberately pretending not to hear it. So, I asked you clearly and Decided, clear and decidently, if you have any idea why the DORH is not acting on the 14 ministers who left your government, the ministers you put in that government, your close associates. Why unfortunately only in the case of Gabriela Žalac the warrant had to come not from the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia but also from the European Prosecutor's Office. Your anxiety, your change of subject, everything else you've been talking about shows you're just nervous about this. And I don't understand why you're nervous. You're nervously answering me, you've been nervously answering the MPs before me, when it comes to this particular subject, so I don't see why you're so nervous about it. If you remember a few years ago, I asked you here from this stage where the money was. Then you did not answer because you may not have known, you did not want to, today I will not ask you because today it is clear to everyone in Croatia where the money is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71897	Let's go to the 16th question, Agent Emil Daus asks him the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Coric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71898	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, we are aware that the water, the water resources of the drinking water source are the largest preserved resources of the Republic of Croatia and we hope that will remain so. That is why we are all more sensitive to these topics, especially when it comes to the management of these resources themselves, so I would ask you to give us a little insight into what is happening now, which is the adoption of a regulation or its proposal on service areas, and it is my only question whether all Istrian mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors in 3 service areas in the Istrian County area will accept the position of the mayors, mayors and mayors in 3 service areas because that is how it is said at the e-consultation and the other day at a video conference with Croatian Waters in their organization. I remind you that there is no legal limit not to be 3 and on the contrary financially and technically they have proven all 3 plumbings are self-sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71899	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71900	Good afternoon, all of you, and dear representative Daus, thank you very much for your question, or for your comment. So you're right in the part where you stress the need to lead and water resources in the Republic of Croatia are preserved and that, in fact, by reforming water-service areas in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, we step in that direction. What I would like to stress, however, is that the reform process in part of the water-service areas, i.e. the water-communal sector in Croatia, as you probably well know on several occasions, has been unsuccessfully initiated and the political pressures in the final resistance that it has experienced on several occasions, has made it possible for us to have around 170 water-service suppliers in Croatia at the moment, which, in fact, in view of the fragmented nature of the Republic of Croatia and our water-service sector for change, or by increasing efficiency both in terms of building infrastructure and ultimately allowing all of our citizens and citizens to reach water from one side. On the other hand, also in the context of the reduction of water loss, i.e. in the water service sector in the Republic of Croatia. That is why a few years ago we started with a reform package of laws from the water service area of the Water Act, the Water Services Act, a whole series of changes that ultimately led us to the current situation, which is that at the final stage of the adjustment of the Water Service Regulation, which we intend to reduce the existing 170 suppliers to the Republic, or to connect into 41. Our idea is very clear, for all our citizens and citizens by joining or joining the water lines to enable the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia to strengthen both administratively and financially in the final implementation capacity for what follows us. This is on the one hand the implementation of already agreed agglomeration projects, and on the other hand the projects from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which will currently be around 5 billion kunas in the financial plan for the next period. As far as the Istria County area is concerned, as you know, and let the Croatian public know, three water-service servers are operating. They 3 Buzet i.e. Labin and Pula serve the entire area as such, however, a team of Croatian Waters and Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection at an earlier stage today, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development considers it necessary to take a step there too. Step from 3 to 2. As for the moment that has been highlighted in the past few weeks or months, and I believe that you refer to it are different voices coming from the Istrian County about the need for a larger or smaller number of servers. What we have recorded is that this wish was actually conditioned primarily politically not structurally, systematically because several months ago when we set out to produce this proposal we were proposed by the Istrian County that it was a water-service area. Then there was 2 and then there was 3. What we cannot do is actually allow the number of water-service areas in the Republic to be primarily the result of understanding or not understanding the leaders of local self-government units, their political positions Or a uniform. [[Intruder: Thank you, time is up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71901	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71902	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your reply. We support changing systems where necessary. Here's the information I have, I believe it's true because I got it from the waist. There are some water lines in the interior of the Republic of Croatia that have losses of up to 80 or over 80% and that's certainly not good. Average losses in all 3 water lines in Istria are about 24.44, e.g. The Pula plumbing below 19%, if it wasn't, it's not all the same. I repeat, we support the change in systems that are necessary, but we also expect that those who have shown themselves financially, technically, technologically efficient and socially responsible, and I repeat that all three Istrian plumbing are. And if we put policy aside and we look at financial, economic or technical indicators, I think the arguments are strong enough to preserve those areas that they are, or remain 3 service areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71903	Let's go to the 17th question, MP Ljubica Maksimčuk, will be appointed to the Minister of Agriculture, Marija Vukkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71904	Thank you very much, President HS, Prime Minister, Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Minister Vukkovic. Dear Minister, the cattle sector has suffered multiple blows over the past few years. The current year can be characterised as one of the most difficult in the livestock sector. The situation of cattle farmers on the domestic market, but also on the common European market, due to the extremely unfavourable market factors caused by the Covid crisis, is difficult and critical. There was a rapid rise in the prices of the input or the cost of livestock food. The cost has increased by 50, and in some sectors as much as 70%. In addition, the difficult situation has also caused great drought in the pasture part of the year, the earthquake affected areas and many more negative factors. So this short question of mine is on the verge of that, too. What has this government done for Croatian cattlemen, and what is it that it intends to do to help them through these difficult times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71905	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71906	Thank you very much to the honourable representative for this important question. As well noted, the livestock sector and livestock production in Croatia have been facing a number of difficulties and challenges most of the structural nature, other part due to inadequate programming for the programming period during 2014 to 2020 and, of course, to challenges related to ad hoc or unpredictable crises such as this major global crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic declared in March 2020. The measures created as a response to the crisis were in turn, the first aid programme for all sectors of agriculture, and related to micro and small enterprises by definition of agriculture worth 53 million kuna, of which 25 million kunas were applied to micro and small producers in the livestock sector. Then there were two intervention programmes related to the intervention buying-in in the bovine sector, the pigs' livestock worth 9 million kuna, the aid to mini-milks and the second aid programme worth 70 million kuna, of which the livestock sector was covered by 44 million kuna, plus two intervention programmes in the pig farming sector totalling 9 million kuna. All together, these programmes financed from the state budget amounted to nearly 100 million kuna in the livestock sector in the first phase. In parallel in the last week of the Croatian Presidency, we received support for introducing new measures into the rural development programme, Measure 21, from which more than 200 million kuna compensation has been paid so far, also, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in agricultural production. Given the large proportion of those who participated in... Due to lost income, especially in the olive sector and winemaking sector, it is my estimate that the livestock sector is not more than 40%, but not less than 35%, so an additional 80 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Due to the rise in prices, also caused by supply chain disturbances, the Croatian government has prepared a programme to assist the e-Construction sector worth 163 million kuna, but raised to 171 million kuna, for which it has received the EU Commission's approval in record time and the programme will soon be largely paid at the government's session by the end of this year. In addition to these 171 million kunas, we have nostrated an additional 20 million kuna commission in the EU for the poultry sector and prepared 2 small aid programmes for mini-milks that buy milk in remote areas in smaller economies of the elderly and for those who do not have the conditions for the collection facilities under the Regulation, this programme is worth 7 million kuna, so 200 million kuna of aid from the state budget. Structurally, we had the first competition after a number of years for pig breeding centres, we prepared a tender for tow cattle, we prepared a new tender for fertilisers, a tender for breeding centres 220 million kuna, for tow pigs, 200 million kuna, for manure related to tow pigs, 67 million kuna, all in total 630 without renewable energy. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71907	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71908	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This government has placed agriculture in its strategic goal, therefore all that you have stated in your answer goes in favour of that. I'm sure you'll do everything you can to help our cattlemen, but of course agriculture as a whole, but let me, as someone who comes from Slavonia, ask you and the Prime Minister to do everything we can to help the cattlemen to get through these difficult times and, of course, to keep as many young people in the country as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71909	We move on to the 18th question, MP Nikola Bartulic will ask Andrej Plenkovic, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71910	I thank the Honorable Prime Minister. I see you noticed that I was at a citizens' reunion on Saturday. I'll state the main reason why I was. So, I think by introducing Covid's pass, we're actually achieving a counterproduct. In many countries where the measure has already been in place for a long time, these figures show quite clearly. I have not had a problem publicly commending Croatia for not imposing more stringent measures, we have been quite liberal so far and I think our country has benefited from that. But in this new phase of the pandemic, I don't think this is the right way, and I'm going to say that many people who have been there are parents who are justifiably concerned about this situation. A statement by member of the Staff last night, Dr. I'm sure Marcotic won't calm them down. I'll quote what she said last night, and on whose children we'll examine the vaccine. A number of vaccines have been developed in Western countries in the poor areas of Asia and Africa. On poor children, so, not on someone's children, and someone's kids need to be questioned for their child to be safe, but still, who are we going to be on? This Covid pulls things out, but he puts some things in order because now he's being questioned in European and American and other children, not just in Africa and Asia. It's a quote. So, do you agree with what she said, and that's pretty much, see, brutally sounds and related to the economic implications of these measures, in which way the prices of fast tests are determined, why They cost 100 kuna, if the wholesale price is 15? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] By what criteria? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71911	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71912	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I didn't watch that show that you're talking about right now, and I don't know if what you're quoting right now was in some context, but with the quotes, when you put them like this, I have big reserves. What you'd really like to know, exactly what's bothering you? What's the problem with Covid's certificates? Is there a problem with Covid's thesis that vaccines can infect someone? Is that the point of your questionnaire? I think so. So, Minister Beros just before, the relevant representatives of Maric quoted several studies that were made in other countries in the context of the epidemic that is with us, lasts 2 years in the context of the facts, I watched it tonight, you know how many people, how many doses in the world have been administered against Covida-19? Do you know maybe? ... Yeah, when you add up one, two and three. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 7.4 billion doses. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I also thought it was smaller, but 7.4 billion doses of vaccines have been administered globally so far. And I don't know if there was any pattern so great for me not to know what, that we can remember within such a short time that all the countries of the world, the democratic and the less democratic, are protecting themselves from a virus that we weren't familiar with until two years ago that has disrupted absolutely everything we're dealing with. There's not a single country, not one system that hasn't felt Covida-19's conconsequences. We've basically been dealing with the last two years as a government with Covid and everything. Do you think we're happy, that we're doing this because we're lifting our citizens' rights, endangering their health care, leaving them out of work, families without existence, parents with maybe little kids without pay? No, I don't. Absolutely not. On the contrary, all we're doing is being minimally interesting, little is what country had this kind of light measure, and you said it yourself, like us. And watch out now, after two years in the heart of the 4th wave with a huge intense epidemic, where we're dying 60 to 70 people a day, all of a sudden, all of the possible actors come along, so you're like the Homeland Movement, the Bridge, as these are called... The living wall, Kolakusic and various bizarre actors of the Croatian scene are not necessarily politically supported with Milanovic to protest against the ordinary Covid certificate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Against one small, short test of 0.3 seconds. Well, there's no theoretical way you're putting it on some kind of worry about freedom. Theoretical odds or citizens' rights. It is a political pamphlet of actors who would like someone else to be in power, not an existing ruling coalition headed by the HDZ. And it's the only true frame of what you're doing. Nothing else. You want me to quote to you St. Father what he said, "Piccolo gesture d'amor," you doctored at Gregoriana. We might have heard him? I don't know Italian well, so I didn't hear what he said. That's who I'm listening to. Listen to him and you, and be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71913	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71914	Thank you. I also follow what Pope Francis says, I never disputed that vaccination has an effect and that if people in freedom decide to do so, I don't mind. It might be good if, even when it comes to abortions and other issues, you quote Pope Francis and maybe you're doing what he thinks about being a Christian. He's pretty clear about that. But why did I go there? I am aware that in the history of the government, and even in the best intentions of their decisions, they often cause more harm than benefits, so far, that damage has been quite limited. But right now in this new phase, I'm afraid the damage is going to be pretty big for all of us, that's one of the reasons. I'm not gonna list all the lands where Covid passes are already in effect. There are quite a lot of them in Europe, and I will repeat, the figures are not favourable and it is not by chance that Mr. Lauc, who may be the most exposed person in this regard, is opposed to such measures now has no place in the government council. I'm sorry about that. Science should be reviewed on a permanent basis, including new data and experience. Therefore, there should also be places for people who disagree and very well argued. As for the price, you didn't have time to look back on it. However, it seems to me like if we have had so far... in Croatia where the state determines too much, now we have... Why? [[You don't understand.]] Why should the price of fast tests that are now mandatory for many people so that they can come to jobs cost 100 kuna in homes of health or in pharmacy, and the wholesale price is 15? Why is he making money on that? For what? We're already giving out 30 billion kuna for health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71915	Thank you. Thank you very much. Let's go to the 19th question, MP William Matula will refer it back to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71916	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, the European Court of Human Rights has ruled that the Republic of Croatia is guilty, specifically your Government that you, or you Prime Minister, are guilty of violation of the rights to the life of a Madonna girl from Afghanistan for inhumane treatment of children, for illegal family closure especially with children, for collectively unlawful exorcism of family with children and you are guilty of pressures on lawyers, on activists, on disabling access to justice. I first intended to ask your closest associate, Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Bozinovic, but as the public noticed after this European Court of Human Rights ruling, everything the Minister, Vice President Bozinovic said, is no longer important at all, especially because he has told the full lies too many times that anyone would trust him more. You may not be aware, apparently you're still reading that verdict, but the verdict mentioned is one of the biggest hits on your government. It shows deep incompetence in migration management. It clearly reveals that the Republic of Croatia does not know how to manage migration without violating human rights and the rule of law. Dear Prime Minister, you do not listen well, but this verdict seriously endangers Croatia's entry into Schengen regardless of your new great friendship with President Macron, which will cost us all a billion euros, will you thank your closest associate Minister Bozinovic for his cooperation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71917	Thank you. Thank you. Here's your answer. Turn off your colleague Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71918	Thank you very much, Mr. Matula. Congratulations on your performance. You can tell you're an actor. It's not easy to measure with you, but it's just that such a subvariant "jakuza" that I'm personally responsible for what happened or the government in a big tragedy where a young girl, a little girl, unfortunately, died a few years ago, and we were all shocked, and sad, and sad and shaken. I guess that's what we agree on. As far as the European Court of Human Rights ruling is concerned, we have also asked our permanent representative, and this is Mrs Internship, we have asked the Ministry of the Interior to study thoroughly, to analyse it to see what this is all about the European Court of Human Rights in this particular case. When it comes to illegal migration and when it comes to what the Croatian state has chosen to do, it finds itself as many other countries in the last 5, 6 years on one of the directions of the migrant routes. We're not Spanish, so we're not in western Mediterranean, we're not Malta and Italy, so we're not in the middle Mediterranean, but there's a country located on the eastern Mediterranean and western Balkan routes. But we're not even on this route that came here yesterday night by the Polish Prime Minister Moravecki to say he's having a hard time seeing the destabilising of Poland, Lithuania and Latvia, where he's being organised by illegal migrants from Belarus, where the other government is pushing them literally on green belts in Poland, and it's experiencing it as a political problem. Not as some random migration let's say by the way that someone who's from Central Asia, or from the Middle East, or Egypt or from Syria suddenly finds themselves nowhere up north at the Belarus-Polish border by accident. We have a serious global problem, a problem of illegal migration. We have a smuggling problem. We have a problem of unhappy families running from threats, from wars, from poverty, from fear of their own survival, but we also have an orchestrated organised illegal migration where many are using this situation to get to the members of the European Union, rarely Croatia as a final destination, through various situations where in certain jurisdictions they are one and that they are from one country, that in the other country, that in the third from third, that rarely where they are formally seeking asylum, these are facts, we have this problem. What we don't want, we don't want human tragedies. We do not want Croatia, which has been consciously chosen not to build a wire, not to build walls, not to build a razor wire, not to share Croatia and BiH, and even Croatia and Serbia or Croatia and Montenegro, and all three countries at some point are possible... illegal migrants but rather to do so with the sacrifice and work of the Croatian police and with the technical means that enable us to control that border. The border is crossed at the border crossings, does not cross in the green belt, does not cross where it is not foreseen. All those who come to the border and ask for asylum have the treatment that we have under our law, according to European regulations, according to international conventions. Those who go in an illegal manner cannot enter not only in Croatia but in any other EU country. We will honor this judgment We will look at everything we can, improve what we can, and we are extremely sorry that it happened, and the minister will do his job. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] and on this subject still. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71919	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71920	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister. I'm glad you're expressing this condolences right now, but you haven't officially apologized as government or you, no one in the Hussiny family, no. What you said about respecting this reminding me of a unanimous clear verdict, I hope you don't complain about it, I hope. What I was talking about, I was saying everything that happened after that tragedy that you did. You had it on TV, I believe you don't get to watch it, but your minister has to know that this family is closed, that it's separated from the children, that all the ways that the lawyers who helped that family have been pressured, that we've made it impossible for them to access justice and everything that's been going on, and that's why your minister can't without saying all the other things. You're talking about a global problem about Poland I don't know what border. In the two sessions of the Human Rights Committee, your minister spoke but the complete lies of what the activists were talking about at those same sessions and now it has turned out and we have seen how people are beating and driving them out. Your new friend I say you will see today you will sign that we are all going to have to pay that billion euros, but your friend Macron, I don't know if you know it or you remember it, he has just declared the title of knight the former staff attorney, Laura Vidovic, and you have all her reports, your government and your majority persistently refused.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71921	Let's now go to Question 20, representative Ermina Lekaj Prleskaj will be appointed by Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Gordan Grlic Radman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71922	Thank you very much, President HS. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Croatian Prime Minister officially visited the Republic of Kosovo at the beginning of last week, this visit had a diplomatic and political, economic and security dimension, but we need to know that he was also carrying a humanitarian note because she presented Mother Teresa's medal to the Croatian Prime Minister and Director of the General Hospital from Slavonski Brod at the time of the visit. This recognition was given as a token of the gratitude of the state authorities of the Republic of Kosovo for the involvement and assistance of the victims and the serious car accident that took place in July near Slavonski Brod. I am interested specifically in my question, how much will this state visit contribute to the further development of otherwise traditional friendly bilateral relations between the two countries, but also to strengthening lasting peace and long-term stability and security throughout Southeast Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71923	Minister Gordan Grlic Radman's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71924	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs Lecai Prleskaj, distinguished MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, this visit by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to Kosovo last Monday is only a confirmation of the excellent relations we have with the Republic of Kosovo, only a confirmation of our commitment to Croatian foreign policy, government, the government's programme for consolidation, stability and functionality of Western Balkan countries. You know that the Republic of Croatia has been among the first to recognise the integrity, independence, sovereignty of Kosovo and has repeatedly advocated why Kosovo's visibility in the international community has helped Kosovo, and the citizens of Albanian nationality which are very much here and here in the Republic of Croatia, who have made their own contribution to the Homeland War, have also given a lot of generals, and this is one of the very exemplary national minorities that organizes often social events that I also participate in. You know that I was also on a bilateral visit in May this year in Kosovo, that I met several times with my spokeswoman Donika Gervalla Schwarz, here she is today in Zagreb when we have under our chairmanship the Adriatic Charter A5 where five countries, Kosovo is one of the watchers countries, requested membership and the charter and Croatia strongly supports Kosovo membership, this is also highlighted today in the prepared declaration agreed by other member states. When it comes to Kosovo in the international community and position, Croatia also represents that other EU member states who have not yet recognised Kosovo's independence do so to ensure that foreign policy, in order for the EU's policy committed to promoting the European enlargement agenda towards the Western Balkans, is unique, complete. So we are spreading that voice and this need for the necessity of Kosovo's recognition. Croatia also actively advocates I personally also at the Foreign Affairs Council for visa liberalisation. So we do everything in fact that these, these beneficial goals that need to improve peace, security and stability in the Balkans and with the fact that we support the active dialogue of Pristina and Belgrade there is Croatia, Croatia's position, Croatian status when it comes to security and stability visible. And our personal engagement. Of course, when this tragic accident occurred, that immediately Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and we, almost the entire government and went to the scene, provided all the necessary assistance, took care of the wounded, honored the dead, everything we did to ensure that these concerns and those feelings prevailed with the Albanian people in Kosovo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71925	Honorable representative Lecai Smackaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71926	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I thank you for your reply, and I am pleased with your answer. I hope and expect that soon there will be a realisation of interstate agreements and a trade exchange between the two countries. Also, I hope that we as an Albanian minority living in Croatia will be a guarantee of further co-operation, but also a Croatian minority living in Kosovo. I would also like to thank the government of the Republic of Croatia once again and the Prime Minister for his assistance in Slavonski Brod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71927	The next question will be asked by respected Maja Grba Bujevic, health minister William Beros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The prime minister, ministers and ministers, Minister Beros, has seen the number of people infected with the Corona virus in recent weeks and thus the burden of the entire health system, especially hospitals that feel the pressure of those with severe symptoms. In this regard, the problem of lack and burden on doctors of medicine as well as nurses and technicians at Covid’s departments of individual hospitals seems realistic. Are we ready for that scenario?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71929	The answer of the Honorable Minister Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71930	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues, distinguished parliamentary MPs, history teaches us that civilization has never been fully prepared for what brings the epidemic. And it's been so since 3,000 years before Christ, when we know that there was the first epidemic somewhere in China that destroyed an entire province. And that's how it was until the last year of the Zika virus epidemic that reigned in South and Central America. We meet these challenges in the best way possible. It is clear that within about 2 years of the duration of this epidemic, we have been unable to educate new specialists involved in the work and treatment of these patients. However, we adapt in a way that is only possible, which is a decision to mobilise healthcare professionals. It is a key element of our strategy and the answer to this challenge. If it were easy, it wasn't, alone, I'd already brought it out in this honorary home once, only in the third wave was the redistribution of 1.544 healthcare professionals. Of which, about 500 doctors and 860 nurses. So communication of the principal administrative authority with all hospitals that are impartial is important. In the ministry, crisis headquarters is functioning, and we have additionally tasked individual coordinators such as the sisterhood coordinator who is also the president of the Croatian sister chamber Mr. Mario Gazic, who made 7% in the past wave. We're repeating it now. They've already been looking for help from some of the Varazdin and Chakovec hospitals. The organisation is under way to help Pakrac and Split. So we answer where the most urgent aid is needed, and that is the only way in which it is possible to respond to human problems at this time. Because it's perfectly clear that we're humanely restricted. I'll tell you how more than 10,000 specialists work in the hospital sector in the Republic of Croatia, of which those who are tied to this disease are 3,266, most interns around 1,450, then anesthesiologist 901, pulmologist 200, intense 512. These people have been providing health care to Covid-19 patients every day for 20 months and I thank them from the heart. At the same time, however, I call on all our fellow citizens to be aware of the fact that vaccination can prevent in their case a difficult form. To prevent hospitalisation, to prevent the use of a respirator and also to prevent death. Therefore, do not unnecessarily burden the health system, vaccinate and allow all others who are in need because other diseases have not stopped, have not stopped. People are still getting sick from strokes, heart attacks, kidney size and all other diseases, traumatized in traffic and everywhere. Therefore, because the health system at this time is burdened with responding to a Covid-19 situation that I think is adequate, other patients suffer. We can and must prevent it. Therefore, once again I appeal to everyone to be vaccinated, and what we have additionally introduced as a single dose of safety in the healthcare system is the use of a COVID certificate that applies mainly to workers, less to patients in order not to prevent access to healthcare, however, the epidemiological profession has also prescribed a clear procedure that applies to the patients themselves so that all those going towards elective, non-emergency procedures must also be tested.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71931	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71932	Thank you. Yes, today's data says that 6,136 people are ill and 67 of our fellow citizens have died. We should all work together to contain disinformation in public space. It saddens me that those who were at the protest now do not sit here as Assembly representatives to hear what you just said. Now we're actually faced with a pandemic that starts before all unvaccinated people. We need to vaccinate, it's the only way that'll get us better. More than 80% of the dead have not been vaccinated. The vaccine works, not 100%, but works in so many ways to protect against severe illness. We need to make sure that scientific knowledge comes to every citizen of ours because of all those who have died, because of all those who are their family, and because of all those health workers who are really self-inflicted, and they are really hard at these moments and they are praying that we should all be vaccinated, to do our best, to adhere to epidemiological measures because without it, we won't get better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71933	Now it's the 22nd question. Representative Sanja Radolovic will ask this question, will ask the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71934	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. In the SOFTVER affair, only four people were recently arrested on suspicion of corruption. Among them is a member of the HDZ presidency, Mrs. Gabriela Žalac and the current head of the SAF, Mr. Tomislav Petric. You also boasted here today several times with 22 billion euros that we need to get from EU funds, so I believe that you also know a little bit about the application procedure for EU projects. I've been working in this area for 10 years and I still have a lot to learn, I don't know all the best, but I do know a lot of procedures. I'm curious, Mr. Petrica has been charged with affecting the results of ex-pos control for the famous software. Do you think that only Mr. Petric could have been responsible for this without any lower operational levels in the SAF or do you expect yourself in the coming days, weeks, months more arrests?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71935	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71936	Thank you, well-respected MP Radolovic. I am pleased that you are engaged in European funds and that Pula, Istria County, will continue to be one of the leaders in the absorption. That it will develop well and quality, that we will help her, whenever it comes to the Istrian Ipsion, when it comes to revitalising shipbuilding in Ulnik, when it comes to building and investing in the Pula hospital, when it comes to a number of other projects that are very important to us and very important to us, I believe that by the end of our mandate and another tube of Učka tunnels will be completed, and we will help develop the railway in Istria, on the same time. As far as these questions of yours are concerned, I assume if you're dealing with funds and making progress in them, that's great. And as for specific cases, you don't expect me to micro-manager the process of thinking in the context of either DORH, USKOK or the European Public Prosecutor. I don't know, like I didn't even know they were dealing with this case and I can't even know what the course of action could be. You can't know either. Therefore, neither will I engage, nor is it my task. What I'm about to do again, not so much as do your de facto on the fifth repeat question today on the same subject, but for the public. There is a trial of the authorities, the judicial authorities, whether it is the courts, the State's Attorney's Office, Uskok, the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, they are working independently and independently and in accordance with the law. Quite calmly, quite clearly, without any, without any thought of having any interference in their actions. That's what matters. If someone has made a mistake and is proved to be in a legal procedure, they will answer. If it is not proved, then it is worth the consideration of the innocence that applies to everyone, including those who have acted on these duties. And a point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71937	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71938	Thank you. I can thank you for not answering the question, and for the fifth time here, not five, ten times we've asked you questions from various political options related to the software affair. You have not responded specifically once, and I also thank you for helping further projects in Istria County in the future. Here's the next week on schedule and debate on the State budget. I don't see that too many Istrian projects are represented, but I'm glad, I will personally submit an amendment to the Istrian railroad and here I am so glad that you announced that you would actually accept my amendment. Secondly, I can see that you've been very concerned with the arrest of your member of the Presidency and the former minister you've been praising so much that he doesn't find you throughout the days of the week, I'm going to explain a little bit to you how the system works. You in ex post control for the simplest purchase of brochures, flyers, minors, can say purchase values, in the SAF it controls you in ex post control of some 7-8 persons, when it comes to these major purchases and more. And what was done here? And you saw for yourself that there was a change in the supply plan and you know how much the value of that software increased? Exactly for so many, that when a 25% correction is issued, that amount settles. By the way, we say under quotes ordinary users of the entire EU fund system at lower levels, you know how much correction would we get for that? And we get adjustments on the daily basis I can really say about the most minor nonsense when we're late with bail delivery because he fell I don't know about the day or the weekend, we get 25% correction for the minor stuff. For such a thing that we have done at lower operating levels without thinking about ex post control 100% corrections. I just want to do you a favor so you don't get caught in the next few days when you see that actually the whole system of the intermediate body level two that is SAFU that manages a large amount of money from the eu funds that they're going to crash. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71939	We move on to 23 questions from MP Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71940	Thank you, President HS. Honorable Prime Minister, Minister, Minister, fellow MPs, MPs. Dear Minister Butkovic. In the past few years, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has invested considerable funds through the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in rehabilitation, reconstruction, construction of ports and maritime goods along the Adriatic coast. Such investments are particularly important for smaller places on the coast and islands that could not be financed by such projects through their own resources and resources from port administrations. The example from Ličko-Senjska County is the Municipality of Karlobag where your ministry has invested seven million kunas over the past five years in projects to resuscitate ports and maritime goods, which is the height of the budget, the annual budget of the Municipality of Karlobag. More than 200,000 nights are also made in the municipality, which is significant for the municipality which has 900 inhabitants and is a significant source of income. What constitutes a problem for local self-government units are private concessionaires of beaches which, although they have long-term contracts and often do not invest in existing public beaches, even there are cases that concessions are broken due to lack of concessionaries. Since the ministry recognized the importance of investment among other things and in maritime goods, and along the coast and island there are devasted salaries in which years have not been invested or invested, I wonder if you will help local self-government units co-finance the recovery of beaches because such places remain for tourism, and beaches are the basic tourist municipal infrastructure without which tourism is inexplicable and unimaginable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71941	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71942	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Honorable MPs. As far as investment in maritime well-being, ports, harbors, waterfronts, waterfronts, you've said well in your question you've concluded well. There are large investments, currently more than 2 billion kunas in total, and we should, of course, say that it never invests in the maritime well-being of ports and waterfronts, and that we can thank the European funds most, and of course also national funds through the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. As regards Lika-Senj County since your question is concentrated on the Municipality of Karlobag located in Ličko-Senj County we have in the past four years as regards port and maritime good investment are somewhere around 150 million kuna and there are, of course, two major projects, one reconstruction of the construction of the port of Žigljen which goes to its end co-financed by European funds. The total value of this project is about 70 million kuna and the reconstruction of the Primorska Street in Novalja, which is about 30 million kuna, and all of this remains these 50 million kunas were investments and are investments in recoverys on the maritime good, reconstruction of the waterfront, construction of the harbor, etc. which comes from national funds. As far as the Municipality of Karlobag is concerned, it is true that in the last four years we have invested about 7 million kunas and currently and now it is being implemented to resuscitate the river in the Municipality of Karlobag in the very center down on the waterfront, a project that goes successfully to its end. As regards the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the maritime good Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure, apart from investment in the port area, there are also envisaged investments and co-financings for the out-of-port area, so that everything that needs to be refinanced on the maritime good, but of course with the necessary documentation to be provided, as it is a matter of recovery and investment on maritime good, we co-finance it in the Municipality of Karlobag and in all other municipalities and cities in the Adriatic Sea are open for co-financing of such projects. As far as the salaries are concerned, we do not do it, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport of Infrastructure, but the Ministry of Tourism so far there have been a lot of investment in the beach itself, so of course I invite you to the Municipality of Karlobag and all those who report to us in one part when it comes to the recovery of maritime goods outside the port area, which is the obligation of local self-government and, of course, to the Ministry of Tourism that has the means to finance beaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71943	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71944	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm happy with your answer. Otherwise, I listed the Municipality of Karlobag as one of the examples of small municipalities, such municipalities are far across our coast and island, and it is of exceptional importance that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Sea, transport, infrastructure recognized the importance of investment in port infrastructure and maritime goods as the basis for the development of tourism that our country is largely oriented. It certainly is important to regulate maritime goods such as beaches and beyond the tourist season as a aspect of the employment of construction operation and the retention of the population. And certainly, one of the important segments that you mentioned is the increase in the quality of maritime transport services, and here I have not even been able to mention in my two minutes this huge investment at the Zigljan ferry port worth 73 million kuna, which is jointly financed by the European funds and your ministry. I also hope that the ministry will continue, together with local communities, with the start of the arrangements and rehabilitation of ports, as well as maritime goods such as coastal walls and coastal promenades for which nearly 18 million kunas have been allocated to the port administrations and units of local self-government only in the area of Lika-Senj County over the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71945	Question No. 24th Representative Goran Ivanovic sets up Culture and Media Minister Nini Obuljen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71946	Thank you, well-respected President HS, Honored Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Honored colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Culture and the media, It's Nini Shoe-Dreamed Corginec. We are in very challenging times of the coronary-induced pandemic and certainly the focus of the entire Croatian public, especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is aimed at solving this problem, but this does not mean that the government and the restoring ministries ignore other segments of life in Croatia. The Ministry of Culture and Media proposed, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted and declared 2021. the year of reading as part of the National Reading Strategy action plan adopted by the government in 2017. under the slogan “Let us read that we do not run out of words. ” We're at the end of this 2021. And it's the right time to recapitulate what's done. So I want to ask you a question, how pleased are you with the implementation of this project, what are the results, and what was the interest of the entire Croatian public in this commendable project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71947	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71948	Thank you, Mr. Representative, and it is good that in your question you have connected and started with the pandemic because I have to say it is part of us and it has encouraged us, given that many cultural contents have been inaccessible, and the book is something that we really, in these circumstances, have to spend more time apart from our fellow citizens can be at hand, and reading is what provides knowledge, especially reading and information from verified sources. How pleased we are to see that when the year is over. It seems like a lot of people really have gotten involved. We had a very visible campaign that was intended for wider, wider citizenship and younger generations and younger generations. To a large extent, more resources were invested in all segments of book-enhancing and new programmes were launched than translation, translation-enhancing, a network of small libraries that broke down in orchards, on beaches, showing that the book was really available everywhere, we provided through European funds more than 30 million for the purchase of the library, so the availability of books in smaller areas, we launched a prize for the best bookstore in order to motivate citizens to evaluate their bookstores. I must say, and thanks to the support through the project of entrepreneurship in culture, more than I think 9 or 10 new bookstores have been launched in the last two years alone. This year, the Parliament dedicated Marulić, should also mention the modern rituals and translations of Judith, the support of young authors, the launch of the project "Born for Reading" that will be conducted with the Ministry of Health where babies from 6 months of age will actually be included, together with their parents, indeed a whole series of activities. At the end of the year, we will carry out an analysis of all the measures, but I must immediately say that we continue to carry on with all these programmes, and we will start new ones. However, what is a key message is that in Croatia too many of our citizens do not read or stop reading after they leave formal education and that is a challenge for all of us. It is primarily a matter of education, but it is also a broader social question, a question in which we can further develop our society, we can strengthen our democracy if our fellow citizens in some phase of their lives actually stop reading and thus exclude themselves from some valuable knowledge that can only be obtained by reading. In that sense, I believe that it is not only at our ministry, nor at the Ministry of Education, it is not only for those who encourage books and reading with their work but also for all of you, or for you Assembly representatives, to promote reading as much as possible and to guide our citizens to continue to develop and thus be a valuable contribution to the development of our society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71949	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71950	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, this is just one segment of what the Ministry of Culture does in these challenging times, and all those who follow a little better know that the Ministry of Culture is generously helping people who are in trouble, and these are cultural employees. The information that is certainly fascinating that less than 50% or almost 50% of the people in Croatia do not read at all, and I think it is something that should be absolutely worked on, so that it would not be that I did not read anything of this here I will read something. The European Prosecutor's Office suspects SDP Mayor Grgic for malfeasance with EU funds. What a bomb. Samodol answered, mentioning Tomasevic, Bencic and Jurican. I also read the text entitled "Is the Mayor of Tomaševic a doll at the end of Sandra Benčić?", also "The scandal of the largest Milanovic donor is the Slavonic SDP in the tycoon interests", "USKOK is searching the City Administration of Sisak, Ikić Baničec refuses to give the documentation", etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71951	Let's go now, let's go to 25. question, please colleagues and colleagues, 25th issue of Representative Dalia Oreskovic asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71952	The Prime Minister, for example, Gabriela Žalac, we have had the opportunity to see how UskoKOK and DORH obstructed the case against an ordinary minister, so it is high time to ask ourselves what all USKOK and DORH are prepared to obstruct the case leading to the Prime Minister himself. The "National" weekly, and then the Index portal, set the the thesis that the Gabriele Žalac case was statistically dead to protect you from reputation damage. But I think the thing is much more serious. Since 2017, we are on our way to change the third state attorney, and all three have broken their spine on the Agrokor case. In doing so, both USKOK and DORH broke the rule of law by failing to launch an investigation and criminal proceedings against members of the Borg group including you prime minister and your minister. The Agrokor case and the Borg case are proof that you have all the time in your hand. In fact, Dinko Cvitan was obviously not inclined to make it easy to press charges against Ivica Todorovic, so you thanked him for his cooperation, and it seems that Drazen Jelenic promised you much more on this issue, and although he was forced to step down after it was found out in public that the Mason I think you strongly resented that he confirmed that those statements that Martina Dalic, Ante Ramljak and the rest of the Borg had been placed under USKOK, which later leaked to the public and published in the media were authentic because after that, neither you nor your government were simply. And just now Drazen Jelenić has decided that the artisan that is now falling into the water and the whole case falls into the water will be carried out... which has worked for old Agrokor, but also for the new administration of Agrokor which you have set up and from which, during that same period, she has charged 116 million kuna. My question is, is the criminal case against Ivica Todorovic just a farce that tries to cover up a much larger crime committed by the state?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71953	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71954	With respect to your performances they are more or less the same and always talk about someone else who allegedly violates the laws, does not respect the rule of law, affects the work of the judiciary. And what's your tape record? You became famous and popular when one other government gave you confidence through a vote here in the Parliament to lead the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest a few years ago. Let's take a look at what's left of your achievements, which is your aqi when we talk about Europe. First, it seems to me that you've always been against the Constitutional Court decisions that abolished some of the articles of the law. Is it true you don't respect the Constitutional Court? And then for years, you had practice, which I told you the other day in response to some other debate of ultra-sources, so out of the box, without legal basis, that on the basis of Article 5 of the principle, you punish people without the truth of sanctions but that you drag them through the mud without having a basis for it. Then your practice was continued by your successor, and the courts are here even in the case of former SDP President Bernardic who did not naively kick out the coat of arms when he could, so this one when he became president immediately threw him out, even in his case, was shown to you in a series of examples that you were working against the law. That's your aqi, that's what you do, that's what you wear, that's what's on your shoulders, that's your ID, that's your badge, that's your accomplishments. So, you used the role of the head of the Committee, the president of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in some visible objects, so you wouldn't be loading people with reputation damage without law, and the courts once, the 2nd time, the 3rd time, the 4th time, the 5th time boom went all the way as Bernardic, as lead deep to the bottom and there is no such thing as you. Then here you are now trying to say about what, that no one in the State's Attorney's Office knows anything, that everyone is working on a warrant, that someone is holding someone in their hands, that someone had no elements to accuse Mr. Todorovic. Well, that's Mr. Petrov, he filed a criminal charges against Mr. Todorovic. We put an extraordinary administration? The extraordinary administration was courted, remember the law, passed by the Parliament. What's left of it? Look wonders remain jobs, companies remain, OPG remains, everything is paid off, suppliers remain, the Croatian economy works, the state budget didn't cost. That's aqi, that's the rest. You and those who are like you are the same thing as this group that gathered on Saturday only bothers that there is some HDZ, there is a government, there is a people who trust that and such HDZ to lead Croatia in all circumstances. Well, then, in our term of office, where practically everything happened, billions for shipyards, other people's debts and wrong estimates, unbuilt ships, the mistakes of an ex-owner who's so much in debt that his company falls into trouble and his eyes. And not to mention floods, earthquakes, fires and pandemics, and, behold, our investment credit rating is growing and Hops 9% of GDP growth in 2021, and you're singing your ultra-source song.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71955	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71956	Dear Andre Plenkovic, I am not impressed by your intoxication and doctoring. Do you know what your aqi will be if the criminal case against Ivica Todorovic has a fiasco? It will be that Croatian taxpayers will pay billions of kuna damages due to the hijacked company. And when we talk about violations of the law, the one who violated the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia is you. The law, and even our legal order, does not know any non-formal task force institute. There are no such working groups in the Croatian legal order, but there are criminal groups operating under the auspices and political protection of you and your governments. And that's exactly what the Borg group was like. She wrote the laws on the basis of which she earned herself. And to remind you of some other important facts. The decision to reject the criminal application was not taken by the Director of USKOK, not even by V.D. The director who was Tamara Laptos during that period, today head of the European Prosecutor's Office. It's some unknown state attorney working inside the structure. It'll all come on the charge someday. And the fact that Ivica Todorovic had a deal with his creditors will also be more problematic in the public and that Martina Dalic knew it. And that right after she got that information from her Borg group members, the guys have a problem. That information and that documentation even our legal system won't be able to ignore forever. And after that, you and your government, but unfortunately for the Croatian taxpayers too, there will be one big bad one. And who's going to answer for that? Do you have any shame? What I've been trying to prove all this time unfortunately I'm right. It is that through your mandate you have succeeded only in one, which is to decapitate all relevant key anti-corruption bodies, you know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71957	It is now up to the respected counterpart Mario Kapulica to ask the question of Defence Minister Marija Banozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71958	Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm asking the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Mr. Minister, President of the Republic of Croatia whose prime minister's mandate was in a serious material crisis, it was a time of recession, and at that time the whole Republic of Croatia was in crisis, today's situation in which Croatia finally and for a long time provided the combat capability of its aviation, of course we couldn't provide it with that famous remont of MiGs, which was made in its own time, so today's situation in which a branch of the Croatian army, which may have been the most neglected in the previous period, why, because it was the most complex and expensive solution, it thus pronounces bad and even worse than bad. Today, on our first official visit to our country, the French president comes to us. For the Croatian government and the Ministry of Defence, this is certainly an extremely significant visit but also for the whole country because not only will a contract be signed on the purchase of multi-purpose combat aircraft but also a strategic partnership contract, and of course it expects support for France's entry into Schengen and the Eurozone. Lately, much has been speculated about whether these aircraft chosen in a very complex procurement process will be equal to those used by France. Even the President of the Republic himself said at one point that he hoped that we would not get Rafael in the dumps and out of gas. So I ask you, what kind of planes Croatia buys, which means for our aviation and what it means with the training of pilots and technicians, will they be ready for such A plane because it's flying now. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] on the planes of the older generations. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71959	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71960	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Parliament MPs, MPs, Honorable Parliament MP Kapulica I thank you for your interest in multi-purpose combat aircraft which the topic of Croatian societies has been long, for many years just created as a necessity because we have second generation planes currently in the Croatian Army system that have become obsolete even after that remont we had in previous years, in previous governments. The multi-purpose, multi-purpose combat aircraft procurement was primarily a strategic decision by the government on the basis of which the process began in September 2020, so the 15-month inter-resor group was worth collecting offers, doing validation, evaluation and prepared a feasibility study based on a decision by the government in 28 May this year to purchase a multi-purpose fighter plane, Rafal, and that aircraft still in use in the French army and will be in use until 2060. We have not only solved the material resource for the next 30 to 40 years, but we have just received one basis for a strategic agreement that will be signed tomorrow. Also a technical agreement that will be signed tomorrow as well as contracts with French companies that will primarily ensure the introduction of a multi-purpose warplane Rafal into the Croatian Army and Croatian Air Force, which ensures the largest investment in the last 30 years in the Croatian Army. This creates a strong strategic partnership that will firstly give a new dimension, a dimension of deterring any problem in these areas, but also a new ability of the Croatian Air Force to create our one additional engagement, which applies primarily to the member states, but also to NATO members. Also, more procurement of multi-purpose combat planes creates additional economic cycles for the Croatian economy is precisely through this strategic partnership there is a new possibility of investment through European funds that we have not had the opportunity to use as a defence sector so far. With the acquisition of 12 multi-purpose combat planes except that we kept our capabilities of the Croatian Air Force, which was seriously compromised after the last MIG 21 remont, we created preconditions for further development of military aviation, but also for the development of other branches. I'm talking about, specifically, the Navy and the Land Army, which is also part of a future strategic agreement and development with the French Republic, with the French army, and in such a way we are really taking an extremely strong position in our international associations or organizations. By successfully completing the process, we have shown that after 15 months of numerous attacks in the public and the Ministry of Defence and in the inter-resistent group, the process has been completed in a very professional way that has shown all the countries that have so far applied for the invitation to tender and we also retain the alliance with America and also retain the alliance with Sweden and with, with Israel that have not been chosen, but are aware that indeed with the acquisition of the Rafal F-3R generations we obtain the most modern weapons, we obtain state-of-the-art equipment, and we are confident that we have further support in the development of projects that will reflect further and on the Land Army and on the Navy in the next period. This is how I said the biggest investment and in this way we touched the budget, the budget that leads us to have 2% of GDP we will continue to develop and invest in HV when we adopt the document of the DPR of the long-term development plan that will soon be in front of you Assembly representatives, as well as the defence strategy which is the basis for further development, modernisation and equipping of HV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71961	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71962	Here I must say that I am glad that both the Croatian government and the Ministry of Defence had the courage that was certainly needed in this great leap into raising our capacity for our military aviation because, as I have already said, the solution was neither simple nor cheap. The excuse not to do so was to make progress in this situation, just like the various calculations of numerous opponents of these investments in HV, and we heard today some MPs calculating what could have been done not to invest in airplanes. So, I believe and invite you to do everything you can to make sure that the other generations of HV, especially those who, in the mandates of previous governments, are materially lagging behind to be at the level of what we do for the Croatian Air Force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71963	Now as 27, MP Marko Pavic will ask the Minister of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy Josip Aladrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71964	Thank you, well-respected Prime Minister of Parliament, Prime Minister. I'm asking my question, Minister Aladrovic. The labour market is recovering and we see that from the GDP rate it will be 9% growth this year. The unemployment rate fell to 7.3%, and you yourself said that we had 20,000 more employees than before the 2019 crisis covid. This was also contributed by a co-viding of the government's 700,000 saved jobs and 12.5 billion kunas, and I would like to congratulate you on the Golden Kun that you and the Employment Office have received, Mr. Loncar and all their valuable employees. She was in the assembly here discussing that it was just sharing money, but she's not known how operationally challenging it is, so congratulations on that. Next thing you know, we're running out of labor that we can see is that he's already been present this season. In order to further improve wage growth on the one hand is the tension on labour shortages, and on the other hand we have to work to increase productivity. Exactly the measure of the voucher which is in the NPOO 300 million kuna for... that is, for the added education of employees and unemployed, it goes in this direction. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your secretary of state, Mr. See, has announced that these vouchers should start on April 1st, so if you can tell us something more detail about what's supposed to be in the NPOO, and how will the vouchers contribute to your further growth in wages, education and recovery of the labour market? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71965	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71966	President-in-Office HS, respected MPs and MPs. Representative Pavić, first of all, I thank you for this issue, but also for opening a topic that is certainly very important for the development of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. So, in the previous answer, I explained what we did to preserve jobs, now we have a period of job creation and now is actually the period during which the labour market in the Republic is expected to change significantly. All these changes are listed in our strategic documents, but one of the most significant changes in the process area, but also in the maturing of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia will be the introduction of a voucher. Voucher, we plan to invest 300 million kunas in vouchers through the NPOO. It's a measure that makes sense to increase the level of competence, increase the level of skills... Croatian labour markets, which is extremely important to respond to all those trends expected in the labour market. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The labour market in Europe and the world is expected to vary dramatically. We, apart from these vouchers and the active employment policy measures, are indeed planning to invest a very large amount of money because the labour market shortage affecting the EU, but the other countries will certainly hit the Republic of Croatia. That is why we must respond by further training, by gaining new competences, by enabling the acquisition of new competences for Croatian citizens, especially Croatian citizens, or those on the domestic labour market to have enough of all those we need in order for our economy to achieve the growth that is planned, which we expect in the end, which is also the external, external partners of the European Commission, the Agency... and all the others predicted. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you again for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71967	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71968	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I look forward to implementing such a measure is it fully in line with European policies that go into the green and digital transition of jobs as you yourself said. The goal is also to increase the average salary from 7/108 kunas now to over 1000 euros, so above 7,500 kuna. We see that we and credit agencies appreciate that despite the crisis, we have been increased by credit ratings. This access to the voucher and... I hope it'll be one project like... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which when we started was 300 million kunas, I'm thinking about now almost 2 billion kunas and 75,000 of our citizens have this institutionalized concern and over I think 16 thousand women have got a job. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That it will be such a project that will allow, especially for young employees to receive additional education, be more employable on the labour market and enable their employers to pay them higher wages. In particular, this is true for the next year of 2022, which the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, pointed out that the next year will be the years of youth, and in the context of the conference on the future of Europe and in the context that tomorrow, Vice-President of the European Commission, Ms Shuica, will present the work programme of the European Commission for the coming year. We believe that this measure is fully in line with this, fully in line with the European Pillar of Social Rights, Conclusions and.../speaking in a foreign language/...same. So we look forward to following that measure from this high house and we hope that it will achieve the same success as the program for... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71969	Now let's go to question 28. We will be contacted with the video by Agent Zeljko Sacic and ask the President of the Government, Andrej Plenkovic. Do I hear from you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71970	I hear you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71971	We hear you, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71972	I welcome you, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister. In fact, my question has already been consumed by the respected Mrs. Oreshkovic, but we are certainly on the same track. I would like to express one concern about this developments in the resolution of the mega-crisis financial and economic crisis that hit Croatia in 2017 with regard to the AGROKOR affair, especially in light of the latest developments in connection with the indictment, criminalisation, or even more so with the procedure of the International Arbitration launched by Mr Todorovic in this New York, or in Washington which was due to be completed in 2022, and I am now looking forward to sharing that concern with Mrs Oreshkovic, it is likely that there may be some major financial problems for all taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand also the ownership structure, we have seen that SBERBANK was purchased by our neighbours downstairs, etc. Do you, as Mr. Prime Minister, take care of these aspects and what kind of response are you preparing for this?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71973	What did you say, this last one didn't add up?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71974	The answer, what an answer, as a state, as a government we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71975	Thank you, thank you. Here's the answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71976	Dear Representative Cacic, I welcome you very much. Sacic, I'm sorry, I welcome you. It was an allapsus mistake. It's no irony. I welcome you, I hope you're all right, you look good. What was a bit surprising was that you were suddenly on the trail of Mrs. Oreshkovic. I kind of had the impression that you two weren't the closest thing to this in some ideological context and political spectrum, but since this has been created so many amalgams lately, here and that's possible. You're asking me if we're following and what kind of answer we're going to give, if I understand you correctly? We've been following, tracking since we don't know the 3rd month of our first government, we've had a virtual collapse of the largest Croatian company in the wing, neither guilty nor debtor. He didn't eat or smell onion. This is what one credit rating agency says in front of the eyes that something's wrong with that company, and then it goes downhill. Remember that? That's what we've been tracking, live, real time. And then you have a choice, and the choice was this: let the market do its job. So we were not in debt before the Croatian banks, we were not in debt before the Western European Banks, we were not in debt before the American banks, so we did not end up in debt to the Russian banks. He was in charge of someone else on behalf of himself and his company. We've also got a very good I.D. on that. We had at our disposal a situation where we could say ok, it's a free market, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, there's going down, there's going down, there's going to be 60 thousand jobs in Croatia and the neighborhood. Let all OPG obligations remain outstanding and let it fall another 100,200,300,500 suppliers of Agrokor along with it and a wonderful start of the mandate. An ideal scenario for us that you're asking if we're following. It was a choice and then we said ok maybe this scenario to let it all go to waste isn't exactly the best thing. Unwillful, reluctantly, even at the instigation of our partners at the Most then, here is Mr Petrov, who came every day with top-of-the-art inside briefings for which I still don't know where they came from today, so he created this mosaic for us and then went to report Mr. Todorovic to the criminal while we were at the EPP Congress in Malta without being told as President of the Parliament but as a citizen back then. All of us have accompanied and managed to bring miracles to the Law in the Assembly, preserve 30,000 jobs in Croatia, 30 thousand jobs in neighbouring countries, allow the OPGs to get all their obligations back, allow all suppliers to stay on their feet and that today after this painful process of transforming the forte new works, however, it goes in the direction of being completely on the market without any fences and commas, and that it works. And now you're asking me if we're following it, we're following it. We're following up on all the other topics I've been telling you about. And shipbuilding, same as onion or smelling like this. Floods, earthquakes, fires, pandemics, whatever you want, we follow everything we want or don't want. I'm glad you're following from some angle that doesn't seem to me to the end informed, but seems so lapidarian, fausal, and even a little insufficient for the kind of person I know and appreciate. Not enough content, and we will continue to follow with interest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71977	Thank you very much. Comrade Sacic, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71978	In short, of course, it's not easy and of course it's not.../incomprehensible/... this opportunity and video, I don't think we can even present all the details and in the shortest time, but be sure that the depth is, that the essence is basically with everything we're going to connect to, that in order to protect the Constitution, the law, and that the fight against corruption continues, is therefore, it's not at all hating to connect with any parliamentary representative. And as for the essence of the story and the long-term problem, he knocks on your door. The very fact that Sberbank is mostly owned by Fortenova and that this capital is fluid, that he buys and sells it, and the strategic, geostrategic consequences you will have the opportunity to see soon, and we hope that billions will not come to our benefit from the arbitration commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71979	We move on to 29 parliamentary issues, counterpart Arsen Bauk points to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71980	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, my sting won't be very sharp anymore. I'll go to my feelings. Croatia is that you will surely agree with me there were far worse prime ministers than you, if nobody at least one of whom you gave up. She had certainly worse health ministers than Beros, worse interior ministers than Bozinovic, on that skillful table, even Butkovic wouldn't go bad, she had bad traffic ministers. But she didn't have a secretary of defense from today's worse defence minister. Unnecessarily, he unnecessarily went into an inexperienced conflict with a president of a republic in which he cannot win. In recent days, he has received so many media and political blows that we can freely say that he has already crossed and that booster dose went to a booster booster dose. Where he traveled, as he traveled, to whom he gave gifts from flowers to the one he carried, indeed one, one, one canon of blows upon him. They say the real leader talks after me and they say the others speak forward. As for the conflict with the President of the Republic, you say forward, Grlic Radman goes to the President of the Republic. You say forward and there goes Banozic, and then he gets a bunch of bullets so we can tell him here's how Capulico's been answering a man under stress, you can hardly see what we've heard him say. My question is that human, do you feel sorry for Banozic for what you've gotten him into? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71981	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71982	My dear and esteemed representative Bauk, my dearest Braccani of all. And are you sorry that Milanovic was your president of the SDP, huh, let's just say, are you sorry? Is he more Petrovev and Bulev or SDP today, that's what you on the left tell me today. That's what I'd like to hear, if I could see what's wrong with who and whose sting is stinging. And what SDP finds itself in this rhetoric that we listen to today. Is Bauk sorry if the President of the Republic violates the Law on Courts? He sends personal letters to every parliamentary representative about how he would still not listen to what the President of the Croatian Parliament told him nicely, legally as he should, but he is going through the wall to propose someone besides a public call. Is Arsen? Are you sorry, you have to tell me you're sorry? I wish I was sorry. Are you sorry, Arsen, when the president of the state doesn't congratulate you on Statehood Day, are you sorry? You must be sorry. You can't be sorry at all. You are a parliamentary representative, you have sworn to the state, the people have chosen you, and the president of the Republic you have supported is not congratulating to your people State Day. Are you sorry, Arsene, when the President of the Republic comes to what he calls it, on the Day of the Croatian Parliament, on your assembly, you are a representative and then congratulated on the Day of the Croatian Parliament, the Day of Independence, are you sorry? You're not sorry. Great, you're not sorry about that either. Are you sorry when the president you supported violates the law on defence that he sees me brought by a government where you were a minister, but he didn't know about the law that Kotromanovic as defence minister suggested, which he cares about because the laws don't go towards the assembly through the government session, but somehow under the table directly send them to Leka by personal letter, and then the law changes. Are you sorry, Arsen? Now that's a question, that's a question. Is it you for the front or are you after me or is it now more necessary to say Bull, Grmoja, Petrov or Rasdić one and two or should the SDP say one or two? That's what we're growing up to. As far as Banozic is concerned, he's okay. Stable, the minister, sees tomorrow his signature, 12 Rafael, a billion Euros, strengthening the Croatian Air Force. Imagine a defence minister like Banozic compared to but you've sunk Hajdas Doncic's now because of Butkovic and we've caught the same thing. He wasn't very pleased, I saw. Well, that's got to stay on record, too, so let's face it. Banozic, Banozic will sign a deal on the Rafals. Croatian Air Force 7 billion and 190 million rebalanced budget for the Ministry of Defence in 2021 Covid recovery. Well, he's not that bad. He's not that bad. I think he's good. That'll stay. Rafali will come and say, someone will wonder in 10, 15, 20 years while these same Rafaels fly, protect the Croatian sky, Croatian mainland and Croatian sea, and who, whose government bought them, will then watch the contract, see, was Minister Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71983	Thank you. Incomprehensible/.../... [[That's what I'm asking you, is that...]] Thank you, Prime Minister. Please just... Please just, I know it was a figure of speech, but I have to call you guys anyway, so we don't sink in the tick, and then we won't be so good. [[Intruder: As Hvar's Bračana.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71984	I'm not sorry, Prime Minister, for nothing, and not even those 180 kunas I paid him, I'll pay again if I have to. This one, Butkovic, Kalmeta's competition can't be the worst, right? Now,.../incomprehensible/... well, he didn't deny it, imagine that Calmet was in.../incomprehensible/... so, Mr. Prime Minister, the only thing I'm sorry I didn't put on HS's day, when I was in the ceremony, Independence Day 8.10, I'm sorry you forged history, I'm sorry, but we'll correct it once. As far as signing the contract is concerned, the EU's accession treaty is signed by Jadranka Kosor. So where is she now? But that's the 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 12th. HDZ, which is already in order. So I'm not sorry, and I have to say that I'm actually very glad that the President of the Republic works in 80% of the cases, and for these 20% of the cases, I'm not sorry, but I have some suggestions on how to improve my cooperation with you, and I'd have a few suggestions for you, too. The only one I'm sorry about is Admiral Food. You've put him in a position to be expected by your party to refuse the commander's orders. I feel sorry for him, so I ask you to do everything you can to spare Admiral Food in the future, you know what, it rhymes, and that this story to solve for the president of the Republic. And as for Minister Banozic, the man is stressed, it is obvious, therefore quietly speaking, as if simply, he is still under the impression of this, however, when you say that he is stable is worth it until the President of the Parliament starts to say that he may not be the most stable. When he puts his thumb down, he's an ex. Until then, he's stable until he shows up differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71985	Now, Arsen, I'd tell you, too, but I'll stay on you. Let's move on. Now it is up to a respected counterpart, Cicak, who is asking the question of Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71987	I would like to thank the esteemed president of HS, the esteemed Prime Minister, respected ministers and ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Minister Tomislav Ćorić. In my municipality of Rugvica, a water-communal infrastructure project is being implemented along with the city of Dugi Selo. The secondary sewerage network is worth 200 million kuna, which is in the final phase. The project is run by the water supply and disposal of Zagreb County, which manages the water-communal infrastructure in the east of Zagreb County, in 4 cities and surrounding municipalities. It is the first company that has connected the water lines in the Republic of Croatia and put them in one, and this has proved very well in this project, but also in all other projects it implements. My question is, I am interested in the current state of realization of water-communal projects of agglomerations in the Republic of Croatia, especially the state of the projects in Zagreb County, since we know that 7 approved projects are approved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71988	Here you go, Minister, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71989	... Your question. [[Specially enabled.]] So the issue of water-communal infrastructure and its construction in the Republic of Croatia has been one of the key issues that we are dealing with today's economy and sustainable development since the start of President Plenkovic's mandate. At this point in the Republic of Croatia, a total of 57 projects were agreed with 3 completed worth 25.8 billion kuna. The projects you listed in the Zagreb County area, 7 of them, including Rugvica, are worth a total of 3 billion kuna and what I certainly want is the fact that the realization of all these projects, regardless of the fact that we are in the final phase of the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion 2014-20, which runs until 2023, will not be questioned. So 25.8 billion kuna, a total of 210 contracts that should be implemented in the next period, i.e. some of them are already being realised, of which 157 already signed, are the guarantee that, ultimately, by the end of the operational programme, by the end of 2024, we will meet the first part of our goal, which is 300 thousand of our citizens and citizens who will be connected to the water network, i.e. to achieve access to better drinking water and 800 thousand of our citizens and citizens who will eventually be connected to the public discharge system, which is even more important in view of the problems we faced over the decades in the Republic of Croatia. What is joyful is the fact that these projects, or part of them, will be realised from a whole series of envelopes, given the financial resources that we are able to withdraw in the coming period, both from the Operational Programme 2021-2027 and from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, but also from national funds. The value of all these projects has been guaranteed that the construction sector in the Republic of Croatia will remain one of the wheels of economic growth. What I would certainly point out, and you in some way pointed out in your question is the fact that in the Zagreb County area the system is probably working much better than in the whole series of our neighborhoods, primarily because of the fact that the rounding, i.e. the consolidation in the area of water servers, took place in the earlier phase and that is why the waterway of Zagreb County as a shareholder in this process, which is actually the bearer of activity, recorded good results in the realisation of the projects. As far as I know, of these.../incomprehensible/... of these 3 billion kunas, i.e. a billion and 700 million kunas from the EU funds, some 700 million kunas have already been withdrawn through the realization. I believe that the next period will bring further dynamization of this process and ultimately the achievement of our objectives, which is that all of our citizens and citizens on the one hand have access to drinking water, i.e. water suitable for drinking, through a system of well-organised networks, water service areas, and on the other hand, also to public discharge, which, ultimately, is a standard that Croatia should have long ago reached, but here, it is a job that we are currently dealing with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71990	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71991	I thank the Minister. I must express my satisfaction with the great progress made by this government in the area of the negotiation and implementation of EU projects. It is now clearly seen, it is being built throughout my Zagreb County and in all of Croatia, and I am very pleased and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71992	The 31st question, now MP Marijan Pavlikek will ask him to the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71993	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. I have a simple question. Are you healthy or are you negative for Covid-19? Is the President of the Parliament healthy? Is he negative on Covid-19 right now? I'm healthy. I tested last night and I have official medical records that I'm negative for Covid-19. But what about all the other colleagues who entered the Assembly today vaccinated, untested, did anyone bring in the virus today or not? Because if we're all here today in the assembly healthy, why are we wearing these masks, what has nothing to do with common sense, if we're literally all healthy? Can you guarantee me if you're healthy, or negative at Covid-19 right now because if you can't do that, then let's literally introduce for all testing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71994	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71995	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am pleased that you have been tested and that you are healthy and I congratulate you on that and that is a nice contribution from a representative of Croatian sovereigns who has no problem with the swab. Is that right? You don't have a problem being tested by a wipe that lasts 0.3 seconds, I think we all understand it now, just like Mr. Miro Bulj and it's one big step towards the trust that's important for testing our citizens and for erasing which is short, there are people in medicine here, and they know that tickles, and it doesn't hurt and you're worried about whether you're accidentally infected or not, and it's great and I congratulate Croatian sovereigns on that, you've confirmed it here today in the context of everything we listen to, what we can see, who's taking pictures, who's not taking pictures, who's the problem on Saturday, and it's not really his problem today, there's enough of them to demonstrate it with pictures there and pictures here, but it's important that these people who have been at the meeting, thinking there are all so much against the delete, that it's just because in business class for 8 thousand and a plenary session of the European Parliament or sitting in HS. That's very important. Now, you have certainly as a valuable and careful representative listened just before to Minister Beros's answer to the question of MP Andreja Maric where he is thoroughly and very clearly on the scientific knowledge of why the person who has Covid's certificate, whether he has been vaccinated, whether he has become over or has been tested in a position to be less contagious to other people who are close to her. Did you hear him say that? I hope so. Now, I'm over Covid, and I've taken two doses, and that's Astra Zeneca, that vaccine that's, like, reputation bad, but look at the devil, here it is, okay. I even drew blood before Glasgow a few days ago to see what my antibodies were like, when I went to Glasgow, I told you that, I told you that on TV, I even had to do that more tickles every day, 1, 2, 3 days, those were the rules. Before the trip, on a plane and in a hotel right before the conference. I didn't have a problem with that. What you're asking me now, I'll be careful enough and wise enough to say that I think I'm okay, but I'm not 100% sure. I don't know if anyone else might have been here, so I took off my mask a lot because I have 20 to 40 questions, so if I might have inhaled something, I don't know. I can go test myself, if you want, after this, and I'll answer you. But what I certainly know is that what you guys have masks here is a framework recommended by HZJZ to HS. So she recommended a waist, they recommended epidemiologists. These aren't the frames someone found by accidentally floating on the Internet and seeing, look, here's the news, and I'm going to give trust to that very source because there's got to be something smart about it. What we choose as a society, as an institution, as a responsible citizen, is to listen to the profession here, and the profession has given us recommendations and told us what is good, why the certificate is useful and why, if we wear a mask in closed spaces, we will be safer, even if we have both been vaccinated and over and even tested yesterday. What you did last night, the question is, what's going to happen today? Is it true? So we're in the same position. I hope we're okay, I wish you a great deal of health, and I'm glad your wipes aren't a problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71996	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71997	Here, I hope that you too okay in health terms, especially and I'm glad that you answered that you don't know and that you can't tell me exactly whether or not you picked up the virus, but you've often called on the profession, so here's what I want to say is that exactly the director of the Varazdin Hospital Damir Poljak asked the Civil Protection County to approach the hospital to test all patients whether they were vaccinated or not because they had more cases of virus breach over those who were vaccinated. Unfortunately, his application has been rejected for the time being, and the same application has been made this week by the director of the even-aged hospital, so also the people of the profession who also think that everyone needs to be tested and the only obvious way to tackle this virus is to literally test everyone and get over and not get over both vaccinated and unvaccinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71998	As 32nd MP Damir Bajs will now question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u71999	He would welcome the president of HS, would also welcome the president of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues, Mrs. The Minister and the Ministers who are present here. I won't ask a question about the crown if I assumed there would be enough, I'll ask a question about the woods. In fact, when we talk about the Republic of Croatia, then we often talk about having a lot of natural resources, forests are undoubtedly what many think first. How could you not if half the total surface of the Republic of Croatia were forests. I will also point out that most of these forests are owned by the Republic of Croatia, and they actually manage in this case Croatian forests which are a public institution that is set up for this. I will also say that lately I have received a lot of questions from citizens about the fact that there are situations that suspect excessive deforestation, so many have seen the next road cut down. I was also seen that it was possible, but I also thought that it might not be a fact, but just an impression, but I actually came to the insight and focus of the Green Squad Association... Associations Vidra and President Vesna Grdić who made one analysis of whether we cut too many forests. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, he supported such a thing in this case Mr. Thomas Veiz, who has found that there are significant overruns of the forest throughout Croatia and that it is almost 100,000 hectares that have been devastated... is the forest that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] almost 20 million cubic metres of wood cut that way. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The value of these 20 million cubic metres is a billion euros. My question is simple, shall we? make an analysis related to the allegations [[Intruder: Thank you]] Which do they support? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72000	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72001	Your Honor, Agent Bice, I'm sorry, but I haven't heard everything you've said. What I understood in the end was that the theme of the forest and that you got a memo from, I didn't hear from who, that you had the impression that the cutting of the forest was too big. Was that right, was that a question?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72002	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72003	Okay. We know about this problem, and we know about the different actors that signal it. I also spoke with Minister Vukkovic, Croatia as you know is approximately 250. the traditions of forest management. We talked about it here recently there is Minister Coric when we were in Glasgow where the great topic of climate change is just the key forests and the most important that they are not cut or burned uncontrollably and for the additional effect of greenhouses, which then leads to a whole series of chain reactions and globally heated. So, the question of forests, their management, control, the responsibilities of the Croatian forests themselves as the state-owned company that again plays the biggest role of governance is extremely large. I don't know exactly what it says in that memo that you refer to, so I would ask you if you don't mind sending it to me, I'll give it to Minister Vukkovic, she'll prepare it with her competent services one thorough answer because I have to admit as much as you and I care if it's all the way it should be or if there are some people in some kind of border situation doing something that we may not even know, let alone that we want to. I think we understand each other here, and I appreciate you raising this question to the public for the sake of general interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72004	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72005	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72006	Comrade Bice, please engage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72007	So, the question that will be asked by counterpart Thomas Veiz in the European Parliament to also want to, I wanted to ask the question in HS. I think it's logical that we care as much as those who come here and in their own way want to help the overall preservation in this case of planet Earth. But I'm also going to say that there's a 2020 FAO report, so it's not an association report, it's a report that says "In global forest resources," so it's called the 2020 report that the Republic of Croatia is among the first 10 countries in the world, and in front of us are only Albania and Montenegro, where, in fact, it determines what most of the mass is planned for production. On the other hand, according to that report, we have lost a quarter of the forests that are said to be human hands planted, so these are the forests that are currently under the Croatian forests, mostly on the floor, as it is said, if we have to bring down the forest and plant it, and therefore this is not just our report, but the UN report, and I think we need to pay proper attention and that it is impossible to have an excessive amount of cutting down the forest, because it is actually one thing that is certainly not going to bring good news to us or to those who will inherit us. Of course, there are some expressed and I would say in this case the illogicalness that has been passed on to both the DORH and the EU, and of course regarding European funds, but I won't, that's something that's not the subject of my conversation today. And so thank you for getting the report that way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72008	Thank you. Now it is up to Representative Radoje Vidovic to ask the question to Foreign and European Minister Gordan Grlic Radman, as he is not here to question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72009	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Assembly, a respected prime minister, ministers and ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, as I said I should have asked the question to the Foreign Minister I will take advantage of the opportunity to appoint our Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank BiH on behalf of my assistance from the government of BiH, but despite this assistance, we are witnessing that BiH is sinking into a deeper and deeper crisis with unseen consequences and the survival of the Croats in BiH, but also in the sustainability of BiH itself and in the peace and stability of the entire region. The causes of this deep crisis certainly come from politics from Republika Srpska, but the good part of the causes of this crisis come from a Bosniak policy that has been systematically for 20 years trying to take away Croatians' consistency and equality in BiH, completely eliminating them from decision-making and a practical Federation to turn them into a Bosniak entity. My question is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you personally and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are doing in order to understand in the international community the need for a quick amendment to BiH's electoral law, in order to implement the BiH Constitutional Court's ruling in the Ljubic case and ensure legitimate representation of constituent peoples at all levels because it is practically a prerequisite for survival and Croats in BiH, and I am convinced of BiH's survival and stability in BiH and the entire region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72010	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72011	Thank you, well-respected representative Vidovic, who is here in the Croatian Parliament from the Croatian Election Unit outside Croatia. I think it is clear that the Croatian public, and all Croats outside the country, in particular the Croats in BiH, hear your voice and interest in this topic, which is in terms of state policy, I would not say that this is an foreign policy issue for us, it is a national interest, it is our obligation under the Constitution. It is about the Croatian people living in our neighbouring, friendly BiH, a country whose sovereignty and territorial integrity we respect and we want to develop as responsible both states and governments and EU and NATO members relations with all three constituent peoples and all others living in BiH. It is a very important message, a partial response to what you asked, but a message to both Bosniaks and Serbs living in BiH. Croatia will also insist on this policy. At the same time, our strategic national interest is to worry about the rights of Croats in BiH. And we do it continuously, we don't do it for the last year and a half, we do it in a political sense constantly and as a government and as a Croatian Parliament and as our representatives in the European Parliament either in this session or in the past and we do it through contacts with political representatives of other peoples but also our influence in the international community. We know that the regular elections in BiH according to the planned and desired scenario in October 2022, we want to help to reach a consensus on amendments to the electoral law, which would allow Croatians to choose their legitimate representatives in the representative bodies or in the BiH presidency on the basis of the political agreement in BiH. The anomaly we have had since 2006 where we have not seen the scenario, at the time, Mr Komsic was then elected as a candidate of the Social Democrats in BiH by the Bosniaks to the Federation's territory as a member of the presidency as a Croat in BiH. He is a Croat that is not controversial, but he is not a politically legitimate representative of the political parties of the Croats in BiH. And that practice is not good. And I have said countless times that it is a kind of electoral engineering that does not contribute to the quality of BiH's functioning, mutual trust, cohesion, reforms and ultimately European pathways. And he knows it. I even told him myself more times when we saw each other and I don't think that's good. The dialogue we are conducting with the HDZ BiH and ultimately with all parties gathered through the Croatian National Assembly and yesterday's discussion with HDZ President Dragan Covic is aimed at helping us to help what both the US and the EU both face this moment and achieve consensus with the natural consent of other peoples' political parties in BiH. And that we have one normal cohesive action in BiH that will make everyone feel good. And that the role of the Croatian people and its link to Croatia is a locomotive for the reform path towards the EU. This is the meaning of our policy, it is a framework we are working and appreciate and your contribution and contribution from MP Bušić and representative Barbaric and all others who work on it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72012	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72013	I am pleased with the answer of your distinguished Prime Minister. I want to make it clear here that in the past 20 years, the Croatian government has not led a more active, well-intentioned policy towards BiH because this policy is based on the principles that you have said by respecting the completely basic principles of the Dayton Peace Agreement and on the constitutionality and equality of the 3 constituent people. Helping BiH on its way to Euro-Atlantic integration, as only such BiH is a country of 3 equal nations. Respect for the rights of all those who do not declare themselves as constituent nations possible, sustainable and in the interest of all its peoples and all its citizens, but I think it is in the interest of both the Republic of Croatia and the whole of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72014	As in 34th, MP Bozo Petrov will now question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72015	Mr. Plenkovic, let's demystify your efforts today in the Parliament and the last few days. So you're trying to create a narrative of one persistent lie that some protest from a few days ago of over 50,000 people happened because of some vats. No, it's a lie, and you know it's a lie, and that's how you defamate and mock people. And at the same time, you admire that one of your handsome jokes, that handsome lie you've come up with. It's true that we as a Bridge have been warning you for months to test all people, and if you can't test all people then at least test those who enter medical institutions, homes for older and powerless persons. You stayed deaf to that. You've introduced a covid certificate, a document that doesn't guarantee you anything after a certain time that you're negative and you can legally enter sensitive institutions and infect other people. Do you see the level of mortality today? Testing is a reflection of personal responsibility, I'm over the covid and I've been tested after 10 days of isolation before I went public to make sure I won't pass on the virus to anyone else. You know what it says in the law that you proposed and adopted? I could have gone out without testing, without testing. I could've, and if I had accidentally been infected, I could've passed it on to anyone. It's your law, it's your relationship to the Vatican both to the testing and to the care of others. I beg you, don't spread divisions in society. Make decisions and fight the pandemic based on Evidence-Based arguments because you are solely responsible for what is happening today in society, only you. And it's not far from Brussels, and it won't be able to get away from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72016	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72017	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Petrov, I haven't seen or heard from you in a while, and I must admit I'm not sorry. As for yours, as you have now said to a truthful narrative suggesting that we lie, it's about a summary of what you're saying. And you tell me which division? What fictional division? What flagrant fake news? What kind of seduction and manipulation? So the people of Croatia are not part of a followers who will listen to your narratives about lies, so we have absorbed it, so everyone knows it. These variants tell you former bridge members and say we're just running away from sessions, so that the theater that comes out of you can sell it to someone who doesn't know you. You can't take me or most of the Croatian people. We follow the Evidence-Based practice that exists in other countries, Croatia did not go towards covid certificates on its own, however. We had measures so carefully calibrated, so long thinking, so consulted with all the actors that I don't know who we weren't careful with. We didn't want to put anyone in a position or force him to tell him and impose the law that vaccination is mandatory. No, vaccination in Croatia is not mandatory and will not be. How are you gonna spend it if someone doesn't want to vaccinate? How? How are we going? We're going to interpret, say, if in less than a year, there's been 7.3 billion doses of administration around the world, then I guess it's a sample big enough to say with a pretty high degree of safety that maybe vaccination isn't bad, that maybe there's less chance and I get sick, that I get a severe form of disease, that I'm hospitalized, then on oxygen, so ha high Fow oxygen, then on the respirator, so ECMO and don't let God die in the end. We may have enough evidence in all possible magazines and we consult enough doctors, your colleagues, to reach that conclusion. But in doing so, we respect the right of all those, and apparently there are those who have some world-famous problem, which have natural human fear, which may not have enough information, which has some medical reason not to be vaccinated, and we respect it and do not force vaccination and provide the possibility of a) a person being vaccinated, b) to be tested. In order for us to have a covid certificate that we have introduced into the health system, which we have introduced into the social care system where our most sensitive people are and we count on what, to a higher degree of responsibility for the people working in the health system, who work in a system where social institutions, homes for the elderly, for example, are more careful and more safeguarded. And you have HZZ recommendations about what happens to people who come to hospitals. Are they being tested? Well, of course they're being tested. If someone comes and is in the hospital for a few days then they'll normally be tested for covid. How do you think we organize 4 million people tests for all twice a week? Do you think we're in a state of logistics? No, that's not real. How do you do that? If you offer me that solution and by the way and the price, okay, we can also consider it. But what we want is to go a little bit this way, I told Minister Beros to choose a health care facility to run a single pilot test, to see what the situation is without telling us ad hoc states and patients and health care professionals in any health care facility, so let's see what that percentage is. That's what I'm interested in. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And these narratives of yours keep it to yourself. Don't speak for the lie, it.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72018	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72019	Mr. Plenkovic, you can't hit me with your insults, I'm the only fear I can see that the leading person in the country doesn't understand the problem. That's number one. Number two, when you tell Mr. Bulju that the headquarters has introduced some kind of health certificate, then Minister Beros has to guide you better because it's not the Staff that did it, it's art. 66 Laws on the Protection of the public. But unfortunately, they obviously don't give you good enough guidance. But what's a much bigger problem for me is that testing is needed because it's currently the most valuable measure to prevent the spread of the virus. The other thing is, you can't switch the story to a vaccinated, unvaccinated, and you can't fight me with the vaccines, so my parents have been vaccinated. I advised them to vaccinate because they are currently in that group of people at risk who have a bigger problem being sick than receiving an experimental vaccine and I would also never say that it's good to go to children because they have no harder symptoms, but it's my opinion and I have no right to impose it directly or directly through Covid confirmation by using them as beatings to introduce something and that's what you're trying to explain. Your policy today has shown a reflection of the situation in society, the policy of imposing, the policy of coercion, the policy of non-transparent measures, because we, day and day after year, do not know by which parameters you bring what measures and that is why people are on the road and you know very well that you are the reason why we started the referendum initiative and that is why tomorrow we will be on the press at 5 to noon, because for Croatia it is literally 5 to noon. And if you don't have the courage to ask people what they think of your crisis management in Croatia, we'll ask them. You don't go to the state and people, you ask them first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72020	We are now going to the 35th question, dear colleague Karlic, is being asked by Health Minister William Beros, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72021	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister, Your Honor. Here, my question is just about what we've been talking about so far, I'm referring to Mr. Berosch. We are witnessing that in a large number of EU countries, as well as these other outbreaks of bouquets, the number of newly infected every day is almost maximum, here, in Germany yesterday 65,000, in the Czech Republic 25 thousand newly infected, with about 6 thousand, 6 and 200. Every day, here we die between 60 and 70 of our fellow citizens. The health system is overloaded. Doctors, sisters, employees are on the verge of strength and yet we have one of the softer and more liberal balanced measures, here, where there is really a lot of freedom of all our citizens in all areas, from cafes, shops, practically everything and I just can't believe why some political parties would stage protests over Covid's confirmation. I am convinced that these protests are not directed against the very confirmation, against health care, against vaccination, but rather against the work of the Staff, against the destruction of the government where citizens have unfortunately exploited precisely in this state and psychosis already around the coronaryvirus, not under the exception of fighting for freedom. I would ask you, here, maybe once again to explain to our colleagues, but also to all citizens, what is the value of Covid's certificate, what is the importance and what is the alternative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72022	Here you go, Minister, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72023	Thank you, Mr. President of HS, Mr. Honorable Parliamentary Representative. Here, I'd answer your question yet say something and I have no intention of really touching anyone, but I am a neurosurgeon, as you are a psychiatrist. We're following our professional literature and I'm asking you to stick to your profession. What you just said just doesn't stand. Testing is, namely, the weakest point of the 3 elements in Covid confirms, the weakest, doesn't guarantee anything,... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72024	/... does not guarantee that there is no infection And that's why it's... [[Just, wait, wait a minute.]] /Employer: A colleague of Petrov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Wait a minute. Someone... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72025	First, you get a warning. What are you yelling at the bench, what's the matter? ... So how can you get a word in with the minister? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What are you pretending to be, the president of the Parliament and running the sessions, so what kind of way is that? ... No, you have no right... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] he has the right to speak, and you can in free speech, which is now, after finishing the current morning...... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Please, Minister, please, you can have five minutes, you can have a press, you can take every chance and talk, but this is how you yell from the place I really don't understand what it is and what way it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72026	So testing is the weakest link when it comes to using the Covid certificate. Testing doesn't guarantee we won't be positive tomorrow. If you're tested at the time of incubation, it really doesn't mean much. Therefore, for epidemiologists, which I am not, it is worth the postulate that testing is the weakest link in this chain. And now answer your question, Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I will repeat one sentence that was uttered in 1713 in Venice by one of the top public health judges, when he said, salus pulsed the supremation of lex esto. It is precisely the objection of patricians, wealthy merchants, that the introduction of certificates of their health will compromise their actions. That's when he said that health is above all else. However, this government took a step further. We've been recruiting the Civil Protection Act, we've been recruiting the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, and we've established the epidemiological measures that are being implemented. Among them is the use of Covid's certificate. She was born, therefore, at the beginning of the crisis when the EU Commission was recognised at the level, recognised the useful value of such a document that would guarantee that someone had been or had got over the disease, so he was immune or vaccinated, so he was immune or tested and it guarantees his health care. This was originally designed for cross-border traffic, however, was soon seen, as we in Croatia, that the use of these certificates could be extended to other segments. It really prevents the spread of the disease, but it does not completely stop the spread of the virus. It can only lockdown, so now I'm sorry that there is no representative of Pavlichek to hear this. So, Covid's certificates don't prevent the spread of the virus. They slow its spread and are in a certain way a compromise between preventing the spread of the virus and enabling new and economic flows. That's the point of this story. When it comes to objecting that it is a discriminatory measure, how could we conclude it? So on the one hand, we have, as the prime minister said, a vaccination that is not mandatory, which is available, which is free of charge. We have the tests available, which are free of charge. So there are alternatives we've made available to you. And all of this together is aimed at achieving certain health security. I'm not going to repeat those studies of Scotland, the British, the Netherlands that I was already talking about today that prove the useful value of Covid's certificate. It's perfectly clear and I don't know, but I think, and there's also the vice president of the government that has just proposed the introduction of the Covid certificate measures into the health and social system, so I don't see that I misinformed and informed the Prime Minister. In any case, it is one measure that absolutely has an epidemiological character that can enable a return to normal life, which can enable the further development of the economy at this time or co-existence with the virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72027	First we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Petrov, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72028	The Honorable President of the Assembly you have injured Rules of Procedure of Article 235, I can wait for Mr. Bukarica to introduce you to it, and while you investigate it, you will see why, at the moment I only asked for words and if you speak to me, and someone else has asked you then I have the right to reply. And that's what I answered for the word and tried to tell the president of the assembly, he was very sacrificed in defending you. Here, and now you can give me a second warning, you read Article 235.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72029	I am here that, he refers to the replica of my colleague Petrov, and if you were here, I don't know if you were at the beginning when I had a similar situation with a colleague of the coat of arms, and then the Prime Minister was answerable to the question of Representative Hajdukovic, who also touched his colleagues in response. Much more intensely than my colleague Beroš did to you now, and then he complained about a colleague named Grbin for his injury to the Rules of Procedure, so I went to check. It is not prescribed anywhere that during the current morning anyone who answers the question can also touch any other questions. This is about your replica. And that's when I told my colleague the coat of arms. What you're looking for is a replica, not a response to the current morning. So you were wrong, I'll give you a warning, but that's not the only reason I reacted rudely. I was reacting because you started yelling from the bench, for no reason at all, you could have picked up this bat you finally picked up and asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, I don't see any reason for nervousness or for each other's accusations. What do you want now? And you can't, there's no such thing in the Rules of Procedure. My colleague, here's your answer now to the minister or the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72030	Thank you, thank you, I must admit that just now Covid's confirmation has brought me this freedom that some have been in protest and asked for because I could have visited a lot of European countries during this summer and traveled freely. But what I would like to say is what I think is much more important, I think as a doctor myself, but most doctors, especially those who are struggling with superhuman efforts these months with patients who are Covid positive and on respirators that they are actually the most disappointed because they are convinced that this protest is directed against them and against their work, and they are fighting to what, to ensure as much health as possible to our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72031	Let's go to 36 questions, MP Stipe Mlinaric asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72032	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Plenkovic, this time I'm going to ask you about combat planes because there's no point in asking you about missing persons, war damages, the trial of JNA tops, because you never gave an answer to that, and you're not going to do that today either. I closely followed the presentation of Brigadier Tretinjak on the Assembly Defence Committee where he professionally explained all the offers offered to Croatia. And we, in the Homeland Movement, still think of such a huge purchase of aircraft as to choose a strategic partner. You chose the French who didn't exactly show themselves to us in the '90s that our strategic partner, unlike the Americans who their officers retired, trained our officers for the Storm and for the actions of Croatian Liberation. I think if you'd acted here, you'd use that one saying, I'm not rich enough to buy cheap. We buy used aircraft, you know it well, and you said Minister Banozic would remain in history as he signed it, but those planes in 20, 30 years will only be written off. And if we bought new planes in 20 years, we could sell them to someone and buy a new generation of planes. And now he'd just ask a question if we didn't run out of time, but when we picked Rafael, I ask you if we're going to be equipped with the most modern anti-aircraft meteor, which, in the event of an unwanted conflict, would bring down enemy planes even above the Bajnica. It means being a regional force in the air, even though the French tell Serbian journalists that they sold us old Mistral rockets that they sold anti-aircraft weapons to. The French Republic of Serbia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72033	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72034	Thank you very much, Mr. Mlinaric, I understand that you are a member of the board of directors, where you discuss some things that are not for some broader forum which is also of public character. Is that right? It is. Well then I guess you know that I'm aware of that and that I didn't want you to know I didn't know I couldn't answer all these questions that you asked me. Nor will I answer about what weapons there is, nor will I comment on what you read, where you are in Serbian portals what the French have told them. I don't know, I figured it'd be wise if you bought some sophisticated military equipment, that what you're buying, you wouldn't tell everyone about it. I think that makes sense. That's how smart, wise, responsible governments usually work. Don't brag about what they're getting because today, if you tell someone and you reveal the cards, they'll tell you thank you, that's great, and we'll tell you, of course they won't, so that's a first. Secondly, you are now talking about the price, subject and strategic partner. We had one process in which Brigadier Tretinnjak was involved, which you mentioned, was including more people, which was a leading step by step, precisely, systematically with the traces of each and the smallest steps of this very large and important process, even with the experience of a process that didn't come to an end a few years ago, unfortunately, but did not come to an end. Now we've been taking this step by step so we've had an inter-resorial approach to the beginning that all those who should've contributed to it and contributed, so it's done with the attention and attention of the responsible people. We picked a plane that's one of the most modern and best guys that even exists right now. We have chosen him from a country that is with us partner and, partner in the EU and allies in NATO, a country that is European, a country that is a permanent member of the Security Council, the only EU member who is also a nuclear force and who has an enviable military industry. We chose the aircraft that we know exactly when they will come to Croatia, which exist, which are not in the process that they have yet to start producing, but we know that they will come and that they will come exactly as professional people such as Brigir Tretinjak and other experts from the Ministry of Defence of the Croatian Air Force wanted to come. The specs of the plane, so someone who doesn't understand it didn't work, here's to say me, and even you, you might understand more than I do. I would never take that freedom to say that I understand myself, but we were looking for something that we think is optimal and that we need and what we wanted is what we agreed on. You will see, these planes will be with us for a long time, will have the power of deterrence, will change the strategic position of Croatia in terms of the defence capacity not only of concrete protection of our territory but of participation in security and in Southeast Europe, but also of the wider world and in those operations in which we will participate. Our army after that, and especially our air force will never be the same again, and our territory I'm sure won't be threatened in any way And that's why I'm pleased that tomorrow we'll settle it with respect to the United States of America. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Nothing we're less allies and friends, nothing less we appreciate what they did in the '90s. [[Intruder: Thank you]] So you wouldn't forget that. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72035	Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72036	Thank you very much. Mr. Plenkovic, first of all, I didn't say a single thing that was on the board that you shouldn't say. The weapons that planes will carry F-16 or the raft will be seen the first time the planes take off, I mean it's not a secret, so there are no secrets that will carry the weapons. What you said about other NATO members, so we have from the EU Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, the Netherlands, and even now Switzerland that bought American planes, and we are the only ones who bought French fighter planes and Greece with 64 more American latest F-16 aircraft. So I'm saying I didn't say anything that wasn't true, and what you said about Serbian portals, so the French Defence Minister said publicly that they were brothers in arms. That speaks enough about their alliance and how they view the Republic of Serbia. That's what she said in public, so no portals published it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72037	Let's go to the 37th question representative Damir Habian asks him the Minister of Justice and Administration Ivan Malenica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72038	Thank you, well-respected President HS, the esteemed Prime Minister, respected ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm referring to the question of the Minister of Justice and the administration of Mr. Malenici. The Republic of Croatia is one of the first EU Member States to adopt and adopt the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. This was therefore in July 2019. where it has entered into force, the EU has subsequently adopted a Directive on the protection of persons declared for infringement of Union law in October 2019. Since we are an equal member of the EU, given our obligation to bring national legislation into line with the acquis and that we must transpose that directive into our national legislation, the Croatian Government is preparing, or your ministry is preparing a new proposal for that law. Given that this law is in fact a system of effective reporting, and on the other hand it provides adequate protection to applicants is definitely a very important law, he would also say about the segment and the fight against corruption, so strengthening the mechanism to prevent corruption. Well, I'd like to ask you if you can use this time to brief us on a few of the most important papers regarding the law in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72039	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72040	Thank you very much, President HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. A colleague of the Habian, therefore, as you yourself pointed out in the introduction of the Republic of Croatia, is still in 2019. It adopted the Act on the Protection of the Notifiers of Irregularity, etc. The whistle-sniffing law. We were already one of the few EU Member States that adopted the legislative framework for this area of fight against corruption, and then a directive has been adopted which we are now actually transposing into national legislation and creating an additional system of protection for applicants of irregularities. As for a concrete bill that I believe will soon come here in front of parliamentary deputies, so the approach to reporting irregularities itself is facilitated, so from now on an irregularity can be directly, power will be directly reported to the attorney general. The new legal text also provides judicial protection, hence judicial protection and applicant for irregularities and confidential persons and associated persons. The new draft law will also contain certain criminal sanctions relating to leaders or employees who pressure against and applicants of irregularities or classified persons, and also provides for certain criminal sanctions against applicants of irregularities who abuse their right. I believe that this legal text that will soon come here to Parliament is one step forward to protect applicants of irregularities, so-called. The protection of whistles because, in fact, whistles with this legal text and the proposal will receive a new, better quality and more systematic regulation that will protect their rights, and in fact it is only part, so this legal text is only part of a package of regulations that this government is making in the field of fighting corruption. In addition, it is certain that the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, as well as the Anti-Corruption Strategy, so that we, as Government, clearly opted for the fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72041	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72042	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, I am pleased with your response. Just what you mentioned last month, last month we adopted here in the High House, so a new strategy to prevent corruption for the period 2021-2030 and one in, of the regulations that are actually in and set up and envisioned by this '22 action plan. ... It's about this law you've been talking about right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would say, you mentioned, that in addition to the law that is announced, so far, the amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, and even with this law that you mention new, on lobbying, which, by now, does not exist in Croatian legislation, and I think it is a good thing to put that activity, if we can say so, in one normative framework, i.e. become legitimate and legal, and with these amendments to this law, definitely shows and are evidence that this government is in fact very much fighting corruption and that it is definitely doing everything that has been prescribed by the Strategy that has been adopted in this House. I am sure that this bill will soon be in the parliamentary benches, that we will discuss it, adopt it, and that it will certainly contribute to everything that you've actually said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72043	The 38th question, MP Andro Krsulović Opa, asks the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure Oleg Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72044	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, dear colleagues. I'm asking Minister Butkovic a question. In early November, the government made a unanimous decision on a concession on maritime goods, Znjanski Plato, in the town of Split. The area is of 220 thousand square meters, according to which the town of Split and its company Žnjan d.o.o. they must invest 225 million kunas and arrange it so that citizens of Split can use this overpriced space. That space was built 20 years ago, let's remind ourselves, in 1998 St. John Paul II. He held a mass there in front of 400,000 people. Since then, until 2017, there has been powerlessness, illegal buildings have been built to release feces into the sea until my decision, administration and in collaboration with construction inspections and the Ministry of Construction when all these facilities have been removed. Today we have a situation where a quality government decision has been made, and it will finally be possible to meet the wishes of the Splits, who through the competition and the DPU after that, through a rather complicated procedure that we have led, have come to the conclusion that despite the numerous obstructions of individuals, powerful individuals, some journalists, with the absence of support from the opposition, and the current authorities, this space is finally being built. My question is which activities of the city and government remain and which are needed to continue with these short deadlines to implement all activities on the realisation of this project and whether or not more can slow down or threaten the realisation This one's too valuable. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the project. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72045	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72046	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, Your Honor. As you yourself stated in your question, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on the award of concessions against Žnjan, a company owned by the city of Split and of course, it is certainly a decision that opened the possibility of an investment very important for Split and that this part of the area that is very important for the development of the city of Split is directed towards it in order to be orderly, to be quality and to the benefit of all citizens of Split, of course, and all those who come to Split. Earlier that the government adopted Decision 11 November was delivered somewhere last year to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure by the County of Split-Dalmatia, complete documentation, since the initiative started from the city of Split to the county, however, since it was a concession that passed the 30-year period, a 30-year period, then it went to the State's authority, i.e. the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and in January this year after the Government's decision, we opened a tender to which the 3 bids applied and that I am now not entering all the details, the government adopted a decision to award the concession. There have been certain here and, to put it this way, controversy or I won't say, objections to the government of the Republic of Croatia and to us at the Ministry, that we've obstructed something that's really not true, we've been allies from the very beginning, and we've wanted this project to start as soon as possible, we've been doing it all this time, so I'm rejecting all those claims that the government of the Republic of Croatia is who in the government, and I'm also the prime minister who was alive, that we've obstructed the award of that concession, which is absolutely not true. But let's put it aside. After this Decision within 2 years, meaning no later than 11 November 2023, the company that received the concession must deliver to the Ministry an executive location permit, so it must start to design as quickly as possible because 2 years is a sufficient time, but time passes quickly, so I believe that we will be provided with an executive location permit and, of course, the guarantee of the bank and the debtor and all of that by procedure in order to have the appropriate conditions for a concession contract to be concluded. So, to recapitulate, after a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is now a matter of a company that has received a concession within two years to deliver this documentation to us so that a concession contract can be concluded and that this investment, whose total value is slightly more than 200 million kuna, could begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72047	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72048	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From this I understand that the ministry is still ready to support the city's company to realise this overvalued project, I would say after the Pelješke Bridge and the construction of the Rijeka port, the largest investment on the eastern coast of the Adriatic. This means that it is over with the possible obstructions of some powerful men, some journalists, with the absence of support of the opposition at the time, and the current authorities and all of those parts I will openly show it to the institutions that have placed clips in the realization of this important project. This also means that there is no room or call to create alibis and that means that it is now on the city authorities that, with your support, cooperation and co-operation of the county, goes into the realization of this overpriced project that will mean a lot not only for the citizens of Split but also for the wider area as well as for the many tourists who come into this area. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72049	Let's go to the 39th question representative Ivana Posavec Krivec asks the Minister of Health, William Beros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72050	I thank the esteemed president of HS. Dear Prime Minister, Minister Beroshu. About a year and a half after they rang and trumpeted the fanfare, after it was celebrated that HDZ and your government declared victory over the coronary virus, and here is the prime minister and I'm glad he's here. He's always saying that we're getting it out of context and we're saying that you said you won in the first half. So tell me now we're either in extensions or we're in a retaliatory football match? We lose, we lose, I don't know what the score is, but I'm afraid after that victory in the first half, we unfortunately lose today. Why are we losing? Because then we gathered together, hugged, celebrated, lost the criteria by which we approved the gatherings, didn't have the same criteria, didn't have a purpose that we didn't have a common goal, then you Minister Beros were surrounded by a super hero's cloak. And today? Today it all came on the charge. Your politicizing of the pandemic and exploiting the virus for political purposes is today Croatia, unfortunately, also knows the prime minister who sits here, but you also know Minister Berosha at the top of the world statistics by the number of patients and dead. I didn't invent this data, this is the data published yesterday by the European Commission. Our family, part of what we are, the European Commission says, Croatia has 55% fissure, 168 deaths per million inhabitants in the last 14 days. And Slovakia has 54% and unfortunately still many, 29 dead, five and a half times more Croatia than Slovakia. So it's not just a matter of cleavage and I'm advocating it, I've been vaccinated three times. Minister, do you feel responsible for this information?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72051	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72052	Thank you, Mr. President of HS. Respected and respected parliamentary MPs. I would be happy if it were the cause of a global epidemic and problems around the world celebrating HDZ and it deserved a celebration after we won the parliamentary elections, however it is not so. The numbers are wild and growing all over the world, and there's a new variant of this rapidly spreading virus. Our task, as we have so far, is to respond to the prompt and adequate measures we are doing. I've never been a superhero, nor want to be, nor have I, but that I've worked very hard within my own authority, and based on evaluations and evaluations on the profession, I've given the best health answer, yes, I have, and I think that's where we're part of it. You remember the beginning of this story when the vaccine wasn't enough for a reason because one manufacturer had problems. We have done everything possible to provide sufficient amounts of vaccines free of charge for all Croatian citizens. The health system was made available to the same and organised a series of vaccination sites, checkpoints, hired a number of people, nurses, vaccineists. As you know, I have tried to contribute these efforts myself, and I have vaccinated all over Croatia by promoting the vaccine. The fact that in Southeast Europe not only in Croatia but also in other countries has a problem with accepting a certain reality is the consequence of the transition, the consequence of the transition from the system, is the consequence of non-trust in public policy, not only health, so it is not a Croatian specific instrument. Look at what's going on, it's part of the answer, and that's why we don't trust public policy because of our historical heritage. However, we tried to do everything in a way to popularize vaccination, to enable it to save lives, now save and the health system allowing it to deal with other patients, not covid patients, and that is the point of this story. No, I don't feel any guilt about what's going on, however, I think that under the given circumstances we have done everything possible for Croatia to adequately respond to this challenge. You've got the end line and some results. Look at the measures that are in Croatia and compare them with other measures, look at the fact that a few months back we had a tourist season, but yes, we warned more spring that there would be a new variant, that all soups had to adhere to epidemiological measures, that we all had to be vaccinated together to prevent what is happening now. We said it tirelessly every day, I said it to this Parliament too, I'm telling the Croatian citizens now. Therefore, this government has done everything possible to ensure that the Croatian health system's response is adequate. I am proud of what Croatian doctors have been doing for 20 months, which so far, I don't know how the future will be, we are preparing for many scenarios, not a single Croatian patient has been praised by a respirator, there was no major problem in taking care of it. Think of far more developed countries in this nearby and further area that needed help. So, thanks to the rapid reaction and flexibility of the health system and, above all, to our healthcare professionals, we have responded to this threat and we are doing it today. Now my director of the hospital system has asked me for permission to redistribute certain medical devices according to facilities where help is needed. We do it, we get enough respirators, equipment and vaccines there, testing has, we introduce measures, we balance them, we adapt them to an adequate moment, we try not to be discriminatory, we try to explain everything, but there's someone who doesn't respond to it, there's someone who has this situation She's not nice. [[Intruder: Thank you]] So here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72053	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72054	Congratulations, Mr. Beros. completely incorrect and obviously there is no help in this understanding of ours. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if you've marked the anniversary of that, the celebration, whether it may have been that repeated party on the Peljesk Bridge, for which neither the conditions nor the criteria applied to other citizens, we're talking about, there's no consistency, there's no consistency in implementing measures. That's where you reminded me of the situation when the Pfizer or the first vaccine arrived in Croatia, I remember very much, all of you colleagues and colleagues remember, that's when Mr. Capak was sitting on it, that vaccine to show us whose power it is and who it is, that's when people through relationships were vaccinated, so people lost faith in the headquarters and in you. Today I listen to the Prime Minister on the one hand, you on the other hand, neither of you feel responsible, neither of you have the need to say that we could have done otherwise, neither of you have the need to say here that maybe we've thrown money into some media like that. The platforms, e, e hospital and I don't know what the like, so it's great that your mask sticker today, Minister Berosha, "You think about the others, "but if that's the answer, whether it's the answer to those people who are overloaded in the healthcare system, nurses who aren't enough, doctors who went to Germany, Austria, Sweden because they've been paid here and because by turning our hospitals into covid hospitals we've lost professional strength. [[Clip incursion: platform]] Minister, I wish I had to go into a neurosurgery operation so you could be my operator because in that sense I appreciate you, but obviously as a minister at this challenging moment you failed somewhere, and I believe it's not just you, it's the responsibility of the prime minister, and it's also the responsibility of the Chief of Staff. We expect what's next, and that's what we expect. is the Law on the Protection of the public he is late as late and Croatian trains. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72055	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Minister Berosch, you haven't put on a mask since the excitement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72056	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72057	Thank you. And we have come to an end, the last question from counterpart Ivan Budalic will ask Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72058	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. My question would like to refer to Minister Bozinovic. Dear Ministers, what does data exchange mean and where is the number of wanted investigations into the crimes of migrant smuggling located in the Republic of Croatia? Despite good indicators in public space, it was also known to come across various accusations of the conduct of the Croatian police and that police were covering up mistakes, and police officers were in turn following illegal orders, how many truths is there? I would also ask you to report in your response on the migration situation at the external border, and did the circumstances and situations in Afghanistan impose the need to strengthen preparedness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72059	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72060	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Dear Representative, thank you for this question which you have brought back on this current hour one of the most important issues facing not only the Republic of Croatia but the whole of Europe and brought it back to the air. You asked a few specific things, I'll give you the best answer of course. However, in... There's everything that's happening to us. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We often forget that while we are having debates here, and so it was last night, so it will be tonight, the Croatian police are guarding the EU's external borders, keeping the state borders of the Republic of Croatia under all weather conditions, and we see that we are entering winter and we can only imagine what it means to patrol along the state border in the night in which the thread is inhabited or has all the necessary infrastructure. About illegal entry into the Republic of Croatia, many have engaged so that today we are already talking about organised crime networks and in our mandate we have arrested more than 4,000 traffickers. That means if each of them was transporting 10 migrants, that's 40,000 people we've prevented from illegally entering the Republic of Croatia. When you ask about criminal research, criminal research is conducted at national level, but of course information is also exchanged within Europol. Croatia currently has the most information from all other Member States that fills the European smuggling base with migrants. This just means that we are on a very intense route, a route that is proven to be a place, if we are talking about large waves of illegal migration because they mainly come from the Middle East and in order to reach the EU, it must be crossed over the Republic of Croatia. In all this, we managed to reduce the number of illegal entry attempts in the Republic of Croatia by 40% this year, which speaks of the efficiency of the work of the Croatian police. The fact that more migrants are now, for example, entering Austria from the direction of Hungary than from Croatia, speaks of how effectively the Croatian police are doing their job. It doesn't suit everyone, especially those who have invested and made money on it. You can hear some accusations from domestic sources, even here in this House, but we won't hesitate. We know that the Croatian police are working in accordance with the law, European, national and that they will guard the Croatian border, whether they like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72061	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72062	I thank you for your response, which I am pleased with, and I hope that further strengthening of the Croatian police in the segment of safeguarding external borders from illegal crossings or any threat, to create a picture of general security in the public, which I have no doubt. Also, here, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your personal involvement in the construction of a new police station of border police in the city of Imotski. I'm talking about a project that's been lying in a drawer for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72063	Thank you, too. It ended in the morning. Just one more thing, in accordance with the provision of the Article. 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the HS, I would like to inform you that in the 10th meeting of the HS, 554 parliamentary questions were raised in writing and 445 were answered. The government or individual members of the government need to answer 50 more parliamentary questions, and 59 is not yet within the deadline, so there is still time to answer that, so I call on the government to deliver answers in the coming days. Thank you all. Now we're gonna take a 15-minute break. After that, the views of clubs and independent representatives will go and then two points of the agenda as we have announced, and that you can plan, so next week and that week after we work from Tuesday to Friday. Party at 14.32 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72064	So we're done taking the stand and now we're moving on to the next item of the agenda. 1. Final proposal for a transport law in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 211. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure are accepted as I said the emergency procedure and the first and second readings are pooled, which means that amendments can be submitted by the end of today's debate. On the basis of Article 197. The Rules of Procedure were conducted by two committees of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. We have Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Joseph Bilaver. Would you like to give an introduction? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72065	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable MPs, the Honorable MPs. As a maritime state, the Republic of Croatia lives from sea and sea, and as a country with more than 1000 islands of which 50 are inhabited on this tradition, natural wealth is based on the development of maritime development as one of the strategic definitions of economic development. One of the main strategic objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is primarily to maintain the permanent integration of the island with the mainland and the island as well as to increase the frequency of the existing and the introduction of new lines in maritime transport. This ensures better mobility of the population, faster and more economical transport, a uniform development of the county, a link between various modes of transport, which is also a prerequisite for the development of the economy and for creating better living conditions as well as for the rest of the island's population. The current Law on transport in line and occasional coastal maritime transport regulates a system of public line maritime transport ensuring the regular maritime connection of populated islands with land and populated islands with an appropriate number of regular lines in both directions in order to achieve the general economic interest seen in promoting the demographic and sustainable economic development of the island, as well as improving the conditions of life and work of people on islands. Since its entry into force in 2006, the law has been amended and complemented six times in order to comply with EU rules on the application of the principle of freedom, the provision of services in maritime transport within Member States, passenger rights when travelling the sea and inland waterways. Decisions and declarations of the European Commission relating to state signatures granted to shipowners for the provision of services of general economic interest and the extension of privileged categories of passengers entitled to free and privileged transport. In the meantime, the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on concessions have entered into force, given that the laws governing public procurement procedures and the award of concessions applicable to public competition for the provision of public service of general economic interest or the award of concessions for public transport on lines without public service obligation. It is necessary to bring the new law in line with the specificities of public line transport with these laws. The adoption of a new Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport will primarily comply with provisions relating to the procedure for granting public service powers of general economic importance with EU rules. Furthermore, the procedures relating to the pre-aid procedure in the form of public service compensation will be brought into line with the State aid Act. The new law will also regulate the issue of the distribution of concession fees on profitable local, county and inter-zonal lines with a public service obligation to be granted on the basis of the rules governing concessions. The adoption of this law is particularly important for shipowners when carrying out a public service obligation based on a public service contract which has not been governed by the current law, for example. change of ship during the validity of the ship on public service, annual settlement of public service compensation on non-profit lines, issue of introducing new construction on the line which are linked to the deadline on which the provision of public service is entrusted, etc. Moreover, the new law also regulates the obligation to repay the public service compensation received to the public budget if it exceeds what is necessary for the shipowner to settle the net costs of public service provision, and so far it has not been adequately regulated by the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72066	Thank you, too. You have several replicas, Mr. Ante Bacic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72067	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I would like to ask whether the electrification of part of the vessel is being considered through the procurement and incentive of non-contaminated vessels, since this law also contributes to the green transition itself, and we also know that, as part of the NPOO and through the reform of maritime and internal navigation itself, a reduction of negative environmental impact is also mentioned. We can see that some power vessels have already been introduced into some national parks, but for these somewhat shorter lines that we now have. I think that would be a good direction for the ministry, I don't know if you've been thinking about any incentives and support just to adapt to this green transition that the European Commission is somehow directing us to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72068	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72069	I thank you, Mr. Representative, for asking. Otherwise, from our membership in the EU, I would say that I would very much profite from this very clearly in investing in maritime infrastructure in the reconstruction of enlargement, the construction of new ports and ports, and we can boast of more than a billion kunas of withdrawn EU funds from the Operational Fund Competitiveness and Cohesion. Last year, we also gave more than 80 million kuna from the state budget to improve port infrastructure for those projects that could not be run for EU funds and over 10 million kunas of investment in maritime well-being. You've detected well, what we're about to do is certainly invest in the restoration of the fleet, and before that, in the restoration of the infrastructure in the gas station, and above all, I'm thinking about LNG, but above all, hydrogen and batteries. what we will certainly invest in in the future. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72070	Mr. Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72071	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here living on the island about ten and over years ago this time and that time is incomparable as far as the ship's lines are concerned and I think this law was done very well and that it covered everything necessary to really arrange transport to the islands. I'm very glad you're here when you're talking about privileges that you've included all categories, especially those that have been left out, and these are children with special needs. My question is just as much as compared to other countries, the island states of Greece, Italy, France, Scandinavian countries as we have unprofitable lines, and how is that solved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72072	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72073	Thank you. We have 55 lines of which 44 are non-profitable, 11 are profitable which shows in some ways two things, one is that, with great and financial efforts, the state wants to keep our population on the islands regardless of the current number of inhabitants on these islands and also shows that unfortunately, out of 50 inhabited islands, many of them are rarely populated. However, this has not prevented us so far, nor will we continue to maintain these lines, and this new law also gives us the right to believe in both in some way and in confirmation of the government's direction that we will continue to maintain these lines.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72074	Thank you. Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72075	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This law with the Law on Islands is two of the most important laws that determine how interventions of the state, the conduct of counties, cities and municipalities on Croatian islands are resolved. For a long time, the Island Law was the one that regulated certain improvements, subsidies, support to the islanders, only later this law adopted provisions defining transport and payment and support for preferential or free transport. I believe that this law should provide for, and the HDZ Representatives' Club will give an amendment in which we will propose that all year-round free transport be included and vehicles of fire departments that are normally owned by voluntary fire companies, which are owned by local self-government units. In this way I think that we will also help the units of local self-government significantly, but first of all, the firefighters who often leave and when there is no intervention for service, for procurement or for some other reason at.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72076	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72077	Thank you, Mr. President Bacic. And so far, firefighters have been involved, volunteer firefighters have not been involved, and that was in the part where the interventions were, but since we know that it's been difficult in some way and financing particularly voluntary fire companies, I think it's certainly justified and I believe that the government will accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72078	Mr. Jure Bourkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72079	.../The speaker is not on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72080	A microphone, a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72081	Excuse me. So the adoption of this law in your personal opinion which is the greatest benefit that our islanders will benefit from, is that an extension of all these categories of privileged and free transport, is that the stability of shipping lines at least unprofitable? By adopting this new law, what do our islanders get the most? Now your personal opinion, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72082	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72083	It is important to stress that currently our islanders and such a large wide system and the rights of the number of lines, the frequency of the lines is certainly one of the best quality, if not the best quality in the EU. So in terms of quality, he has been on a high level so far, however, this law will allow these lines on individual lines of interest to be more frequent. It will certainly allow for the continued financing of the current and non-profit lines because we care about the local population, and as I said before, here I believe that the government will also accept this amendment where all volunteer firefighters and fire departments throughout the year will have free transport regardless of interventions and I think that, with the transparency of the law and future concessionaries on individual lines, the largest benefits of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72084	Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72085	One of my favorite personal achievements in a political career is forcing or encouraging the government to install in this law a provision on the right to free transport of children with developmental difficulties and that happened. Well, my second favorite part is what my colleague Bacic said, and that's for the firemen. In fact, a few years ago, I personally concluded that the parliamentary majority then refused to join this free transport group. The mayor of the city of Korčula and the mayor of Supetar, in consultation with the interested public, proposed this and the applicant accepted but did not enter the law. So the HDZ Club and the SDP Club will propose an amendment to fix this and then accept the government for the second time. I can only tell hallelujah twice is twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72086	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72087	Thank you, Your Honor. I remember when we talked back then about the initiative of the Association "Brother's buds" that we unanimously concluded here that it was not actually the merit of even today's ruling majority, and not the opposition, but that it was some kind of civilization achievement and that it was actually a recognition to the associations that suggested it then, and it was actually the government that accepted it then, and at that point we didn't take any political points in any way, so I'm going to remain at that conclusion that was a few months ago. As far as this proposal is concerned, the truth is that we have received between ourselves and this, and these issues of public consultation, and this debate has been conducted before and before and before in the course of law making and after, so here is a great, great achievement that the government will accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72088	Thank you very much. Mr. Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72089	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is evident that in fact this law is harmonised with part of EU rules, part of national rules of the Public Procurement Act, etc., and we see that the existing law did not record the boarding of passengers and vehicles on board, that this new law introduces it. Why do we need these statistics, and why do we need that number of passengers and vehicles boarding the ship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72090	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72091	Thank you, Your Honor. It was a record, but not so strict, and I would say not so transparent, so that by introducing a system to all the ships carrying out transport in the coastal line we will unfortunately jump to those who are privileged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and who voted that there should be no violations or abuses by individuals who have somehow manipulated with island cards, so that this one system that we will introduce to all ships will prevent such things, anomalies in the future, I think that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72092	And finally, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72093	Dear Secretary of State, here I will warn you of a little matter that I hope is taken into account, which is in the award of concessions for public transport services, so as not to single out the lines, which was a case that was extremely profitable, and that state-owned companies such as Jadrolini are left with those that are unprofitable. We had a similar situation or have it in Croatia post office where today some services can actually work and profitable anyone and actually there is an interest, while Croatia's mail as state-owned companies actually remains many of the services that must be provided by law and do not bring profit or profit or contribute to the functioning of the state-owned company.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72094	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72095	Thank you, Your Honor. As for profitable lines, there are lines made by Jadrolini, otherwise I, a few lines on which Jadrolini has not competed, but given the system as it has been so far, there will be a future system through concessions to which the shipers will appear. I believe that Jadrolinia will be competitive on each of these lines. To us Jadrolinija is important, important, it performs lines and where no private would perform, so that the very position of Jadrolinija, which is prescribed by a special law, speaks of the importance of Jadrolinija. What is certainly waiting for Jadrolini is the modernisation of the fleet, and we will help it from our side by the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a certain step there, especially in the withdrawal of European funds and to start getting new ships if God can produce the same ships right in Croatian shipyards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72096	Thank you very much. No more replicas for now, thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic in front of the Croatian Sovereignships' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72097	Dear Vice President I know already, I learned, green when it's burning [[Intruder: Watch the microphone, microphone, is, come on, thank you.]] So, dear Mr. Bilaver with associates, here's what I'm going to repeat from a moment on and again, there have been these cases and before some extremely profitable lines I'm going to even single out one for which I trust you to meet, and that's the Split-Supetar line, that it's been concessioned by two concessionaries. [[It's okay, it's okay.]] Yeah, yeah, two concessionaries here's a colleague of Bacic's, that was 15 years ago that they were two concessionaries and that's the problem. While other lines that aren't that profitable, for example. as irrelevant to Split – Vis or Sibenik – Žirje performed Jadrolini. So that's where we really have to take care of the fact that a state-owned company that covers everything so that in some case it's not cut down here, but that it's kept in mind that giving some profitable lines on the market means some ruthless battle market without conditions of provision of services somewhere else shouldn't happen. But I hope you take care of that. Secondly, you mentioned that we have over 1,000 islands, that we have 1185 islands, islets and rocks relative to, compared to that number always varying, I have a variety of countings, although this is the most accurate one actually counted another by Franjo Josip of 1233 islands around the Adriatic Sea, although I will say that figure, the number varies. I come from a county that has the most islands compared to the coastal line. Sibenik-Knin County has 285 islands. And now I'm going to tell you one thing that may not be so attached to this law, but here's because you're all tied to this subject, remember this. There is a nearby Sibenik island called Tiyat, and there is also a ship called Tiyat. And that ship Tiyat he's old now I don't want to overdo it but I think 70 is old, he's not. 60, here's the mistake I said I was thinking, here's 60 years, but it looks pretty retro like that and it's really not just the Sibenik and the people of Zlarin, Prvic, Žirje where he's already driving, they're very emotionally tied to that ship. [[It's 60 years old.]] It's your old ship, that old railroad, and it's actually one symbol of Jadrolinia in Sibenik. I invite you from this place to talk about this ship, and I believe that there are similar ships in Croatia somewhere else, we don't just have an economic calculation, because it's one value that isn't, which can't be calculated exclusively through money. At the moment that ship Jadrolini was sent to the cutting site, we lost tradition, culture, heritage, what Sibenik is is what the Sibenik Aquarium is. Keep that in mind, people are, people are Sibenik all regardless of going to the Sibenik Islands or are not extremely bound I will even say in love with that ship. Once there were two ships, they were called Ohrid and Valjevo, so they changed the name Ohrid and Vali now I don't know which of these two Ohrids and Valyev Tiyat. So, Valjevo, here's a thank you for the information. So that's what I wanted to warn you here with that there's a lot of port in which more money needs to be invested. Of course, here I think, first of all, I come from Sibenik here, and that's where Sibenik should be invested in ports, and I'm going to tell you about Split. Split is the 3 port of the Mediterranean I read about it somewhere by passenger traffic, I don't know what 1 and 2, is it Genoa, Marseilles here I really don't know and we have now almost 5 million passengers crossing if I'm not wrong in 2019 or somewhere. It means 5 million passengers. The infrastructure, although invested, I believe that it still needs to be invested in view of the importance of the port, above all, for passenger transport. We had investments in other ports, like. Zadar's Gagenica, I'm not against it, however, but here I think that maybe Split is neglected and that it should really be at least a fraction of that money that was invested in Gaženica, which is a significantly smaller port and invest in Split's Split port. And maybe another little thing that I don't know how much it is for this debate, but I'm going to mention it. So big ferry, for example. as is the Croat or Marian who drive for Brač, and I am familiar because here he is my wife, my wife's family lives on the island of Brač today so I'm often there, they have their cafes, restaurants and they're in concession the same, you know whether, so there's always a contest. Interestingly, even those waiters there have to have a beard to even compete with the concessionaire in order to get that concession. And in the off-season drinks are I'm gonna say acceptable prices, but in the season, in the season I'm gonna make a mistake, but I think there's beer paying 35 kuna. 35 kuna means usually, the most common beer that costs 6 kuna in the store. Why am I saying this? That coffee shop he needs first of all to contribute to the quality of the trip, so it's some added service, and it doesn't make sense for that coffee shop to make someone make that abnormal profit, do you understand me? If that cafe of the locals almost nobody consumes because the prices are such that a round of drinks can't be turned around, normal man means that whoever comes on the ferry can't pay for coffee 20 kuna, then that doesn't make sense. So, I believe that Jadrolinia as a company, a state-owned company that concessions these cafes should limit prices by means of a contract. You can't have beer on a ferry in one, in a plastic glass as expensive as in a restaurant that has Michelin's star. And I think it's logical, maybe funny, maybe it's not for this debate, but here's the price of beer through, through this law that actually has nothing to do with it. Okay, here's your attention, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72098	Thank you very much. Where's that coffee shop, on Brač, on the boat?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72099	You didn't understand the esteemed vice president of the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72100	You have a little more time, so you can explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72101	All the bigger ferrys have their own cafes, all the bigger ferrys.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72102	You've got two minutes left, I'm interested in that one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72103	Marian, I said, Croatia ferry all the ferry actually driving Split-Supetar have cafes where they are exceptional so don't, do you have a good salary you actually can come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72104	...on Brač no local pays 35 kuna, did you say? Okay. Thank you very much. Ms. Marijana Puljak Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72105	Good afternoon. Here I am not talking about the prices of coffee in the boat's cafes, so it's not the purpose of this law. And here I will confirm to my colleague Zekanovic Split is indeed the third port in the Mediterranean, after Naples and Piraeus which are the first two ports, and behind us are Istanbul, Alexandria, Barcelona, etc. So in 2019, which was a record year, there were 5.6 million passengers and 82,000 vehicles or 29, then the source I read misspelled. But let's go back a little bit to the subject of this law, so the Law on transport in line and occasional coastal transport, which regulates the system of public line maritime transport and the links here are inhabited islands and with land and therefore regulates the number of regular lines. And indeed this law can be freely said by the island's inhabitants for economic development and is the condition of their survival and development of living conditions and the work of people on islands. The law has been since 2006. To this day, here is how we have seen the introduction changed several times, it seems to me, five, six times, in order to comply with EU rules, and this time again, other than harmonising with the EU, the conditions for its amendment are to comply with the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on concessions, which was complemented last year and the Law on State aid granted to shipowners as compensation for public service. The amendments to the law are also done for another reason, and this is the introduction of a central system for the collection of passenger and vehicle registration data when boarding the ship. Until now, this data has been collected on the basis of data from shipowners on sold cards, and now here is the system when it will be recorded on board ships and passengers and vehicles and will then be regulated on the basis of this and their right to free privileged transport. Now a few questions are being asked about the amendments to this law, one is that I am an informer or an IT expert, and I am immediately asked about the introduction of this central information system, so we are introducing another here. So now, in the end, apart from one single system, we're going to have three separate systems and how much I've been able to understand from this actually not connected system. So, we have a new system of passenger records and vehicles when boarding the ship, that's that central information system or CIS as they call it, and then operators still have an obligation to enter the number of passengers on board the so-called so-called. CIMIS is an integrated maritime information system, it is established by the rules on the safety of navigation, and we also have so-called maritime information system. SEOP or information system for the registration of users of privileged transport, so three separate IT systems. It's that menu in the 21st century right now ringing some alarm, why we couldn't just expand some of the existing systems with a new functionality, we've already introduced another one, so we have three separate systems now. In addition, regardless of this CIMIS, operators still have to send each port administration a monthly report on the number of passengers on board for their statistical records. So we're kind of piling up these information systems, and without any interconnectivity, so instead of having one united today, we're right here, and with this law we're introducing another. The second question being asked is why is the urgency of this law? So this is an emergency law, first and second reading, the urgency here in the introduction is justified by the need to ensure the implementation of EU acts and the Commission's decisions to be careful in 2011. And then two regulations, one of which is from 1992, and we urgently see that, the emergency procedure, and we apply the regulations, is 20 years old. So there's one regulation from '92, the second one from 2010, so we rushed 20 years. Now, in the context of urgency, the real reason for the urgency is further stated, so the entry into force of the new Law on the Transport of Lineways to coastal maritime transport is defined as a key stage in the Council's Implementing Decision approving the evaluation of the recovery plan and the resistance of Croatia, therefore this is the reason for urgency. We need this law that falls under some kind of maritime reform and internal navigation, which is a condition within the NPOO. It is further argued that the aim of this reform is to promote the development of sustainable and efficient maritime transport, to ensure the revitalisation of waterways, to improve transport links, etc., so this is one of the conditions of the NPOO. The other actually linked reason for urgency is because we need to include in the state budget the funds needed to implement this law about 345 million kuna for the next and two years after that. In the public debate, if you look at the comments, what we have read about operators making as an observation, one of the objections is that this law introduces a competition system for public line transport without the obligation of public service what they fear will be complicated by this, the competition process itself and knowing the work of the agency and some bad experience in working with that agency is afraid that this whole process will be extended, the resolution of complaints will be extended and then perhaps not even arrive at the beginning of the season actually which is crucial for maintaining this type of line. And besides, says the contestant who is competing, who actually gets the line, must not keep it until the appeal process is over. So there may be a problem, a process of whether it lasts, a complaint of appeal etc., and we do not then have a concessionaire which, therefore, can lead to a disturbance in that summer, summer period. Here may be the wrong one. I'm misreading the law. Here I heard, I was at a board meeting, so I didn't hear this one, I wanted to talk about this observation of the island of Brac and Korčula or the cities of Supetar and Korčula that firefighters should have free, free transport for their vehicles, so fire trucks located on the island when they go to the mainland to do mandatory technical checks, atheists, services and the like, today they have, using the advantageous prices actually, and what they are asked to have the same conditions as their colleagues from the mainland that this actually transport is free of charge. I've heard that you'll also propose an amendment in this direction to correct one mistake in that law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72106	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72107	Honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. In its opening section, the Secretary of State stated mainly the reasons why we approach the creation of a new Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. This law, which was adopted in 2006, was then passed with certain dissatisfaction from shipowners, clear Croatian shipowners, part and trade unions in the maritime sector, above all, by Jadrolinia, was then unhappy with the adoption of the law, and we then passed this law so that we could prepare Croatian maritime legislation with the acquis of the EU, where until then a monopolistic position of Jadrolinia should have been dragged into a market-based way of managing maritime transport where it is, which then leads to market liberalisation. At that time, I wrote the law and wrote it myself and with my associates, claiming not to give that new, then law would not weaken the position of Jadrolinia but would strengthen it and it would indeed happen. Jadrolinia's been through the past 15 years. Strengthened her fleet, rejuvenated her fleet. We were then instituting a model that would encourage Croatian shipowners building in Croatian shipyards to receive 20% subsidies, 10% from the Ministry of the Sea, and 10% from the Ministry of Economy. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this for the reason I'm saying that, market liberalisation leads to improvement of maritime coastal transport, improvements that contributes to better use on one side, opportunities for access to services by islanders, but on the other hand sharpens shipowners, so the boater must work even better, provide better ships, younger ships, better quality and luxury etc., etc. And that's what really happened. But then we didn't, then we didn't include... be a member of the EU of this Regulation, which was mentioned earlier in 1992, which refers to cabotage. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We then left cabotage exclusively to national shipmen, and cabotage involves national sailing or sailing between, inland, in the territorial sea, in the inland seawaters and the merger of ports in one national state. This traffic was not then made possible by other shipowners coming from EU Member States or other shipowners coming from third countries. Later, we later changed the law because it was one of the preconditions for joining the EU, it would be done and then we made it possible for others to cabotage, but that fact with cabotage made it possible for other shipowners, and the EU member did not change anything because we knew it at that time. The domestic fleet has been strengthened, the law has laid down some additional conditions that shipowners must meet in terms of crew and knowledge of Croatian language, etc. and it did not happen that in the cabotage, the Croatian cabotage would perform this maritime traffic, perform foreign, foreign shipping, which does not mean that in some future time it will not happen, and I know and there have already been cases of foreign shipowners reporting in competitions which, which is the Agency for Line Coastal Maritime Transport and calling, were not the most favourable. Therefore, this law is extremely important for both the shipowner and the islanders, as I said earlier. This law together with the Law on Islands is practically one, it is the two most important laws on life on Croatian islands, in important order. I would also add the Law on maritime good and seaports because when we talk about the Law on Line coastal maritime transport then it is clear that it is an important segment of the quality of this maritime integration of Croatian islands to build ports. And I welcome the efforts of the ministry and the governments that through this, as we called it, the Renaissance on the Croatian coast, have entered numerous investments where they are built or reconstructed. In my county of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, where I come from, nine ports that function as a transport link between the island of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Therefore, when we talk about this law, we are talking about ships, seafaring and prices. And when we talk about the Law on the Sea Good and the Ports of the Sea, we say that in another segment that is equally important, perhaps even more important because a good ship cannot come to a bad port. Therefore, it is good that the government is through the programme, and with EU funding it has entered very, very large investments that raise the quality of the port itself, and thus clearly raises the issue of a more high-quality ship. And I can say that lately this level and quality of maritime integration has been raised on Croatian islands. 2012, '11, '12. the year the population list of Croatian islands was completed is one of the few areas of the Republic of Croatia where there is a population growth of about 2% somewhere on 132,000 we will see what this last list, which is just finished with what he will say about Croatian islands. But then we argued and this is indeed because through the implementation of the Law on Islands, through the amendment of this law that we are really one part of life on islands and when it comes to maritime integration and the promotion of municipal activities, the construction of numerous systems of municipal, social and economic infrastructure made one step on Croatian islands. I would like to say that Croatia, with its position de facto absolutely maritime state, is already mentioned in the fact 1244 islands, 435 ports that are categorized from that, I think, are 80 which, 101 ports that are in the function of maritime integration of Croatian islands. With the fact that we have a shipbuilding, with the fact that we have more than 22,000 sailors, with the fact that, in all segments of the operation of the sea, Croatia has, if you want the Croatian Classification Institute, Croatian.../incomprehensible/... Institute, that almost all over Croatia we have a developed network of offices as port captains, Croatia indeed and de facto and these laws and de jure the rights of the maritime state. And that is why I welcome this fact that we are passing this law not only because with it, which we will satisfy with it, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which through this green transition we will allow in Croatian, that during a medium-term period of 10, 15 years, these are one category of ships whether they are Ro-Ro ships, whether they are fast, fast catamarans, whether they are classic ships, but we are really going to help with the quality of the transportation of Croatian islands and that is right through the realisation of this law. As I am an islander myself, I can see that there is an increasing number of commercial lines that are primarily fastboats connecting Croatian islands. Until a few years ago, it was almost unimaginable for us that you could start from Split and come to Dubrovnik and touch each, almost anything but Lastovo, Middle Dalmatian islands, so Brač and Hvar and Korčula and Mljet and Lastovo. A second line has been established which again goes from Dubrovnik to Split in the same day of 2 different boaters. So it's all the contribution of a law like this that really brings life to the islands. Not to mention how many tourists, every 5 tourists, every 5 tourists in Croatia are guests and tourists on Croatian islands, which makes a significant and clear contribution to Croatia's GDP when we know that 20% of Croatian GDP comes from tourism. And in order to achieve this law, this really makes it possible because it increases this one fluctuation of tourists coming to Split or Dubrovnik, it comes daily to islands or to the Long Island or to any Ugljan, Pasman, any Croatian island of Rab or I don't know which other Krk more in classical terms find it difficult to consider as an island, but I speak precisely good ships, good ports, quality sailors, quality crews, subsidisation by the state which contributes to this one economic development of the island, but above all to the function of the entire development of the Republic. Here, we will, in that sense, give the amendment that I already, which I mentioned earlier, which will go for the whole year to free transport to be fire trucks that not only go into fire extinguishing action but also otherwise for other purposes. use the services of this type of traffic. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72108	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72109	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear secretary with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues here today is the final proposal of the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport. We are passing the law by an urgent procedure, and the reasons for the amendments and additions of this law are clearer and more detailed regulation of certain provisions, especially those relating to the public-line maritime transport system in relation to the regular maritime integration of populated islands with land and populated islands, which are of great importance to the sustainable development of the island. Today, 56 state lines have been established in line with coastal coastal transport, a good part of which is particularly unreservable outside the tourist season and such lines are mainly subsidized, subsidized on average with around 300 million kuna per year. Of course, the Social Democrats Club considers public transport in coastal maritime transport an important factor without which sustainable development of populated islands would not be possible. And I'm going to take this opportunity driven by similar problems and say that it's as important for sustainable development as the public service of line bus transport to the mainland. And I'm going to take this opportunity to appeal to the county to settle the funding issue as soon as possible and those contracts that need to be dealt with urgently by calling a tender because we discussed it here in the Assembly six months ago, but until today, there is no control over the resolution of this issue and there is no answer when the time will come for signing and conclusion of contracts that are as important as I said for the development of rural areas, but also for the survival of our carriers that are on the verge of collapse. But let's get back to a line-up in maritime transport. We welcome, in any case, the reduction of the administration as well as the creation of better conditions for the right to privileged transport, especially for the transport of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. However, the question is whether the other proposed amendments to this law will make it easier or difficult to carry out concessioning services, since they themselves point out the public competition process in the maritime line process will reduce their interest because, in order to improve and rejuvenate the fleet, they seek the conditions for introducing a new construction that poses a risk to shipowners because they must invest in a new fleet or in its upgrade. The shipowners are aware that more attention should be paid to modernising the fleet but the introduction of new construction on the line in public line transport is not a small investment, and they also require a certain period of adjustment which has caused domestic seamen's concerns that they will lose to competitiveness. And here's the question of fire trucks, they've already absorbed their colleagues through the replicas before, but I definitely think that it could have been accepted from public consultation and that there was really no need for now here to go with the amendments. All right. What we also hold important when we discuss this maritime law is the news that came to us two weeks ago from the government session, which is that the Shipyard Institute is going into liquidation. And a really large questionnaire occurs when we hear that Croatia, which is traditionally a maritime country that has large shipyards, has knowledge and experience in this area, and which educates shipbuilding engineers, liquidates a company like the Brodar Institute. A company that spent 73 years designing ships will now put a key in the lock. For decades, the company that has been the main business of designing the vessel, experimental product development, making prototypes, designing, monitoring, measuring, testing in maritime industrial technologies, and which has done such operations by system key in hand this time will nevertheless put the key in the lock. And we need to ask ourselves, are we working and acting strategically or just periodically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72110	The next club of representatives will be that of the SDP, and the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72111	Thank you. Very often on these topics I find myself in a situation that I have to agree with my colleague Bačić and my colleague, Boric, I am not sorry if the prime minister is interested, so this time I will agree to most of it. The island law is a kind of island constitution, and the Coastal and Linear Act, etc. Transport would be a kind of constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, only we are one traffic minority here, let's put it this way. And then the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports would be a kind of law on the use of language and letters or schooling or something. The fact is that this law and solution in this law depend a lot on the quality of life of the island's inhabitants, both those living on islands and registered on islands, so those living on the coast, and they are registered on islands and those coming to the islands, live on the coast and are registered on the coast and their guests. I believe that the solutions proposed in this law are progress, with the amendment that will propose the HDZ Club, the SDP Club and personally as a representative, it will then be improved what needs to be fixed and should also be said that the shipowners, especially the state shipowner, and others who have received concessions in many respects about the quality of their work depends in fact on the quality of the tourist offer on the islands, but on the work of the ministry, the county then the local self-government depends on the situation of the port infrastructure, because we are increasingly witnessing that traffic, road infrastructure, especially in the summer months, and especially on the weekends, in fact, its quality has the result of actually stopping life in coastal cities, for example in the city of Split, is impossible to traffic on Saturdays and on Sundays about 1.7 to 1.9, and in some other island cities that have harbors, and that the next step should, in fact, it should be that some of the port infrastructure is based on solutions that are in this law. The second thing I'm saying is, what's certainly important to the islanders is that the lines are reliable, relatively common, regular and not overly expensive. Any amendments to the law to good luck extend the circle of those entitled either to preferential or to free transportation. In the total amounts of the state budget, it is not a large and huge item, but it shows the relationship between society, state, government of anyone to certain vulnerable groups in society, and as far as transportation issues are concerned, islanders and those who leave or come from the island certainly are. And we don't have to explain it any more, and even when it comes to explaining a lot of those who are able to explain it. Mr. Secretary of State replied in his reply to this section on the right to free transport of children we spoke of in the last assembly. I would remind, however, that the bill I personally proposed as a representative whenever a committee rejected it would create a public change and pressure to accept it. I am sorry that the government did not take advantage of the procedural business, the business provision that simply the law in the first reading proposed by the MP takes as his proposal in the second reading, it was not some big problem, but fortunately the problem was solved. In parallel, the only amendment in the history of the Croatian Parliament, which was submitted by the opposition representative, and the parliament accepted, and the government refused to amend MP Davor Penic in that short-term assembly of the Croatian Parliament, when colleagues from the MOST who voted contrary to the government's stance. Fortunately, the government fell apart, the amendment passed, and the law was passed and no longer changed. This shows, in fact, that the sensitivity for the islands still crosses these majority minority borders in the Croatian Parliament to that level that it is possible, however, that some opposition proposals are accepted, and here they are accepted even when the government is against it. That's right with firefighters, that's next, following this proposal that I hope will be accepted for vehicles, and I hope for members of the fire department. As far as this is concerned, he would remind that one of the slogans that the firemen in Croatia perform is "fire of gas and brother of rescue", only the firefighters on the islands had the slogan "fire of gas, brother and map of pay" and now this amendment will pay for it to be removed, finally come. So, that's, that's a pretty good, pretty good thing because actually voluntary fire companies are the most organized group of young people not only on islands, in most rural areas in Croatia and in cities. But let's just say that in the smaller environments it's this and some kind of circle of people that everything else goes on and on, whatever it is you're calling them for right now. The only kind of local police that local self-government leaders have alleged signs of local police are fire companies. They don't have this influence on anything else. However, I know the case from the island of Brač that it is the firemen who maintain order at the port when these weekends are, when these weekends of this one cannot be passed by normal car, etc., but in this sense, the government really needs to make a lot of mistakes in the proposal so that we can be against improvement in this law. This has not happened in good luck, but I have prevented a bit of Butkovic today, however, from accidentally jiggling around this law, he has promised that he will not, and in this sense, see if the government accepts the HDZ amendment, the SDP Club will also be able to amend the SDP Club, because the SDP Club will surely support the law, and if he does not accept it, then we will fool you a little bit, but we will probably also support the law because without it, these solutions are better, and this will make it even better. Here it turns out not only that the opposition, that it doesn't just turn out, that it doesn't just turn out to be a criticism of the opposition. I hope that the other laws that will come, and as far as life is concerned, on the islands of other resors, we should repeat and repeat that it is best for us when that portfolio was in the Ministry of Transport, because now at the Ministry of Regional Development is now regional development, now that the ministry has become notoriously incarcerated as the Minister of Prison, but it is not good to blame those of the service, the Board of Islands. Therefore, the other laws that are proposed will have an understanding of the island's specificities. So if these officials or officials in the ministries don't have it then at least let the vice president of the ruling party on the island warn them if they don't listen to him, then let the vice president of the ruling party warn him, if they don't listen to him either, but let the president of the party who's at least on the father of the island of Posushaj, if he doesn't listen to you, then call me and I'll criticize them again. That's fine. Okay, thank you colleagues and colleagues, so fire extinguishes, brother saves, the map doesn't pay and the amendment accepts. Thank you, goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72112	We move on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72113	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow workers, colleagues and colleagues, after all these previous colleagues from the island I am very pleased to talk about islands, and I am very happy to speak when the problem is related to the islands, I am not from the island, I have no roots or anything related to the islands, but I am sure that I am one of the few who have not been apples and Palagregi. I've looked around all the islands more or less, I've seen many of them, and when I've been doing spatial planning, and I've looked at the island's spatial plans when I'd refer to some kind of wave or something that was then everyone's always surprised, but I've been looking at it because it's really something that I've visited in that, that nicer part of the year for the islands and the island when we all come, when we all enjoy it, but life on the islands is a whole year. And when it comes to real estate, and when someone asks you about the value of real estate, then you always say that the value of real estate is the three main things, location, location, location. When it comes to life on islands, then there is something, which is the quality of the transport connection between these islands. And that's why I'm reading this law with great attention because it's about a law that really needs to cause both attention and responsibility and the importance of what the law itself says about the transport of line and occasional coastal maritime transport, because without the quality of the connection that must be throughout the year, of course life on the islands is going to decrease significantly. I've discussed a few things here and pointed to certain specificities that I've met. In one of the former bill proposals was that problem so the problem of transporting children and young people from the island was solved when they were educated, but it was always a problem so I will speak very clearly I was in sailing for a long time and you expect sailing to develop on the islands, you expect sailing clubs to be on and on the islands, and then there was a problem with these sailing clubs when they go to any competition they have to put on the trailer and their small boats that are at the beginning of optimists, and later something else and by certain transportation to the mainland and then get to where the regattas were. A few years ago, it was a problem for them to get the possibility of a cheaper ticket or a free ticket, now and for some time now, and for some time now, it's unequivocally, so all those who do business and some kind of school on the islands, but also some of their other sporting activities, I'm only talking about sailing and solving somewhere else. I have to say that for a few years I have helped and fought and fought for something else and then you actually realize what these people are facing and what the problem is with these people. One big regatta, I'm talking about regattas, it's between young people up to 15 and 18 or this class that are something, organized on the island of Hvar. In that period when there is no tourism, then not in the summer period, but in autumn for someone to come to you he must get to Split with his van, with his trailer, with boats and these boats pass the ferry and to the island of Hvar and pay for the ferry ticket both for the van and for all those who are and for the trailer. And then we fought a battle on how to make it a cheaper ticket for them because that map for them was terribly expensive, and you actually have a few aspects, as you first activate a certain activity on the island in a period where there is no tourism, so where there should be an interest in all, you activate a certain sport activity that has now become a tradition and included in some Europe purchases that were also a third thing, you show that one sports aspect of Croatia and everything else. And I have to admit that these battles were quite this interesting, and then in different ways it was how to make it possible, from the subject of who checks out whether the club confirms, if they really are in that contest, whether they're applying or not, and these are some things that when someone organizes a regatta, whether or not I know it in Primosten that I'm thinking about right now, he doesn't have to deal with it, and here I need to. What I want to stress through this debate is this: life on the islands requires a certain empathy and sensitivity for all of us, each of us faces this problem in one part and should always and we will as such treat this law, every improvement and step forward should be highlighted and discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72114	Thank you. He will now speak to the esteemed representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72115	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will support this Transport Act in line with occasional coastal transport because when I remember 2006. As counterpart Bacic did in his speech on behalf of the club, let us also remember all those resistances that went towards this law and union, and many politicians who said that the Greeks, the Italians, that our fleet had no chance of steaming them, that the workers would be out of work, that they would destroy Jadrolini, that they would destroy young shipmen and that this law would create a total mess in maritime transport. 15 years after that I think this is a law that will pass unanimously in this home, I believe that we all understand what it says inside and that we want even better shipping than we have right now. And I think it's very good now, that it provides that basic purpose and solves the first question that always bothers the islanders when you ask them what they want most or what's most important, it's always a maritime connection in the first place, everything else can and wait, but it always has to be in the first place. And when we look at all these numbers that we know to solve it once more because my colleague Zekanovic deliberately twists the fact that we don't know how many of us we have on the island and the Office of the Island that works, so he can look at 1244 islands, islets, cliffs long ago counted and as a number clearly displayed. Of course they're not all inhabited, but they have a large number of ports we've heard 435 ports which on land, which on the coast, of which 101 in traffic connection function. It's a big system. Let's imagine it in air traffic or somewhere else, it would be a big problem. Of course, this system had to be harmonised and harmonised together with the directives and EU laws and that through this liberalisation or market relationship we achieved what we are witnessing today, that we have better ships, that we have faster ships, that we have practically and prices at 2005 or sixth level with all the fuel purchases, especially diesels, etc. We're still driving. I'll say on Rab Island we drive cheaper today than in 2005. for the kuna, two, but cheaper. We have one price of an island map that's 15 years equal, so you know what it costs. When we look at the costs that used to come to 400 million kuna subsidies from the state budget, today at 314, 315 are mostly everyone knows who gets what they get and that's what's been established through this law. It is clear that when you transport 13 million and 800,000 passengers and 3.5 million vehicles, it is a system that is large that simply requires rules. Let's try to count the incidents or don't give God some accidents, they're almost gone, and that's one of the values of the entire system because the shipowners are serious and count that what they have signed has to do, there are sailing lines that work both summer, off-season and seasonal and clearly that there are clear rules on that 51 state line. There was resistance to the island cards and vignettes we introduced, but they showed their purpose and today there is no problem. What was I gonna say? I'm going to warn you about something else that's bothering us, me from Rab. It's that we can't resolve the will of one man in the ninth year. who has his own port office in another county, 9 g. is unable to make one ordinary public toilet, nor make one navigation security ramp, 9g. With all the resources available, with all the government's efforts, with all the ministers begging and godfathers that one man, one director of the county port administration more important than the entire system, that this line that has millions of passengers and 250,000 vehicles has no basic hygiene conditions that you can sail over the year. It's a shame and no one can stand in line with one such man, not even the mayors. I can't believe it, we need to find ways that these people don't do their own will. It's pure self-will, there's no such thing as a 9-year-old. It can't project and build when everything's clear as day. This shipowner, the Rape Navigation, is one of the shipmen who is only a competitor to Jadrolini, there is no one else in the ferry transport. This shipowner shall pay his concessions neatly, in orderly whatever order is given to him, but shall not be able to meet the bad conditions of navigation in that port with all the obligations imposed upon him by this law. I ask the Ministry to find a way to stop the self-will of individuals who tear down a picture of all of us who want to live normally on our island and use all the benefits lines that exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72116	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72117	Thank you, Vice President HS. Your Honor, here you are from the island and I've been working on the island for a while, and I think times are incomparable then and today. I read the paper at 6:00 a.m., the daily paper at 6:00 p.m., not to mention the groceries and the cost of living on an island that was 30 to 50% more expensive. So you from your experience can, you can detect the problem, from what I can tell is that maybe in the summer months, water supply is a problem, how could you solve it? And second question, can we now build ships that will be green, that will use this fuel without being fossilized to protect what wealth we have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72118	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72119	Thank you very much. Col. Simičević, this law does not address the issue of water supply, it solves the Law on Islands, but the state has given its hand to the islanders, and I think they appreciate it very much, we have gone again to change to give them even more opportunities, even more cubic and at a more favourable price than it has ever been, and I think that possibility. It's the right thing to do. As far as green policy is concerned, i.e. This 10-year-old ahead of us is exactly this law preparing the boaters for it, but they have already entered quite a bit of a far-off stage of preparation in it and they want to have ferrys on alternative fuels, whether it will be hydrogen, whether it will be some other maybe solar energy or something else it is on them, it is certain that they want to make their contribution, although still diesel as a fuel will be very important in the future 10 years, everything goes towards being as small as possible and I think that especially fast-board transport here has much to say because because the attempts and projects already have given other results. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72120	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72121	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, when you were already talking about improving the fleet of ships, I want to remind you of what you know that 6 fast boats are under way for emergency medical services and rescue at sea, 12.5-metre ships are fully equipped with emergency medical equipment with beds and 8-seat rescue facilities with all equipment. In the ship-making phase, it is one project that was created precisely to improve life on islands, and it was created in cooperation between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, so here I thank the project and look forward to putting them into work and connecting 6 places, 6 islands with the mainland and with the rapid availability of health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72122	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72123	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I thank you both and for your contribution to this very project and I am glad that my island is one of those who will receive such an emergency medical aid ship, and I will also tell you why it is important to us. Today when we talk about summer and winter on the island, here we go now to the island, so let's look at the differences in seasonal life let's say summer and winter. Yesterday I traveled here, smoking a storm about 150-160 km/h, a ferry that drives for 10 minutes to connect the island to the mainland. In the winter months, emergency aid simply can't in every condition, especially in the night just lift the ferry and transfer the patient or patient to the continent, so let's somehow get to Rijeka on the road. It's fortunate that we have multiple connected islands with two lines, so the ferry is doing it, if one can't do it on the other, and we really do have great help from all the boaters, every honor to the boys from the Adriatic and the Rabic navigation that really do it with such a sweet heart and help in every situation, and they really need to be thanked because this job works honestly for the benefit of all of us islanders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72124	Thank you. Now they're going to speak to a respected representative and vice president of this House, Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, when we talk about this law, I would like to say the position of Croatian firefighters, especially firefighters from the coastal part of Croatia, as well as all firefighters and members of the Mountain Rescue Service as two emergency services who, as my predecessors here have spoken in positions when they go to the interventions, and then have to pay for the ferry and they would like to compare it with how the firefighters have and the highways, means the firefighters and these rush services when they use the highway then have a privileged ride or not to be charged because it's the one from the budget and you're pouring left into the right hand, so I think here's the Secretary of State and appreciated to think about this proposal. We will give it through the amendment here through our club as it was said previously to free the firefighters from that transport, to be on land and at sea. It is especially important that firefighters use it exclusively practical when fires or some crisis events are on the island, and those island firefighters are using it who can use it there, maybe a smaller vehicle, some kind of van, sometimes when they have a predecessor from the island on land and I think it's one reasonable request, we've talked a lot about it throughout the past period, or since the agreement or decision was made and put into the Law on road transport that firemen and emergency services have free highway transport to do so here. But it was always said when the Law on Islands or on line transportation was changed that it would then be considered to be intruding. In this bill it is not well done, or in the bill there is only one part of this problem put in place, and here we would like to amend it completely in a way that the firefighters respect it, that we have the same rights as the firefighters on land that the firefighters are at sea and this is normal when interventions are that we don't have to play cards there when we transfer fire trucks from land to islands and if the firefighters come from the continent or from other parts of Croatia, then they have to deal with the issue of transport tickets because it's kind of pointless to buy a ticket, and it's going to help put out the fire or any other crisis event called for by firemen and firefighters to help. We know that there are no large numbers of people on the islands, and then, normally, we can't have such firepower that in these crisis situations, there's no need for firemen from the mainland to come, so when they come to help them at least make sure that it's done with both highways and that we've been promised both in conversation with the Minister many times and with the prime minister when the law changes that they will respect it. Here, in this sense, I appeal to the Secretary of State, the Minister, all of you in the ministry, or the legislator, to enable us to respect this amendment of ours and thus correct that one flaw or one bad solution in the existing laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72126	We have one replica of the respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72127	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear fellow MP, second Vice President. I must point out that the ministry has made a major step and has listened in the last meeting of this Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a decade of requests and disabled and the Brač Publishers and children with special needs for the release of payments of liner transport, especially when going for medical purposes on the mainland and from the mainland itself, so here is a personal normal and on behalf of the entire 10th electoral unit, and I believe that all colleagues who are tied to the coast know what happens on the islands when the fire season is so that this is one logical amendment and logical requirement that I believe that the ministry, with little changes to this bill can adopt. In addition to this law, I believe that there should be some rule-making about getting the vehicles themselves into the ferry and other modes of transport, but here's full support and I believe that the ministry will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72128	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72129	Here you have confirmed what I was saying, or what firefighters, mountain service and emergency services are looking for. I'm sure it's a positive thought. As far as the right of the primary entrance is concerned, we have no problems or when the fire is then those people who are responsible for the ferry are organising it, they are announced in time, and they are organising firefighters to play it with the right priority of the passage and there are no problems, we should not particularly regulate it, it is regulated through this action of the intervention service, or the use of sound and light signals that use all the emergency services, and in such a way should not further regulate it in this law. It is enough to support this amendment that we have given and it will solve this most important part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72130	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Josip Boris will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72131	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Well, here's the final point of saying a little more about this law because I think maybe I didn't speak individually in my own debate just about what's important to us within that law. We know that in 2006, he made cabotage possible, and that with this law, we are now finally addressing the issue of the EU acquis in the area of granting powers. for the provision of public service i.e. concession. I think we're finally gonna deal with it and that... As regards the granting of support, this law requires the provision of public service i.e. They will comply with the State Support Act and I don't think we have a certain problem here because we know more or less from experience, and we've already had two or three competitions just for all lines since then, these are five-year contracts that showed that in the competition, what we wanted to happen is that on profitable lines, the shipowners pay the state a certain concession fee for its fixed and variable part, and on non-profit lines the state subsidises itself. I'm here to single out our two shipmen when we're talking about the ferry transport of Jadrolini and the Rape navigation, I have a little bit of a feeling that this relationship isn't the same to a small boater, it's in this case Rape navigation, and it's worth the same rules for them as for Jadrolini, which is, let's say, 90% sea traffic. I know we can't just single this one out and say you're more special, but here's an example of the fee they're paying for their commitment. She immediately created a problem because you're paying for a favor that someone doesn't provide you, unfortunately. Jadrolini provides, but the small boater does not provide and must be equally compensated. I'm talking again about the will of individuals, some director of the port administration who does what he wants. He wants a fee he's not able to provide the one who's going to do the service. He's in no condition. At 10 or 11 o'clock in the evening there is no man who will come and tie the ferry, but he wants a fee and gets that fee, and then he is unable to make basic infrastructure procedures for that port to function normally. So that's where we need to see how it works. I'm not against being looked at equally, and that's fine, but to see a little bit of what with the team, with those people who say they're being paid at all are being financed by the state in no way, and they have obligations like big boaters. So in that part, I welcome this law that tries to make certain concessions. The public tendering process I say on non-profit lines goes through the law means public procurement, and profitable lines go according to the concession law. When we talk about a new central information system, it is something that will certainly be an upgrade to the system that we introduced, these are island vines in 2009, after which the island vines become island cards, especially for the person, especially for the car and in this way the state proceeds if I have seen one meaning not a small income, almost 3 million kunas as much as it receives from the concession fees themselves. So the islanders make every card they pay, but it provides them with a permanent discount means on the journey, I say once in a day. What's important to us in that part, I guess that system I say will finally know what's going on on the journey because there's all this, we have to be, especially in the season. And if all we have is to coordinate road transport, I think it's more or less air traffic where I can't figure out what to do, so we have more order. So maritime transport is one of the examples of how a single transport system in the Republic of Croatia should function. It further perfectes and additionally imposes certain obligations and shipowners on them to be even better and more coherent than they have been so far. And of course what makes it possible for the last one, this is this green policy, it allows us primarily to get different vessels on alternative drives in the next 10 years, which means that they will be able to use the resources from the National Programme of Recovery and Resistance, and that they will certainly be looking for a large part of co-financing so that they can do so in some way and thus contribute to themselves but also to the island population and environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72132	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State, Josip Bilaver, will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72133	Thank you, dear Vice President. I would like to thank all of you respected advocates and representatives who have been exposed to you and I would like to say a constructive debate on the proposal for a Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, all in order to improve the service of maritime transport and adapt to the needs of our citizens, especially of our island population. I trust all of us in the interest of insurance and investment in effective growth and development of both maritime transport and all of Croatia's maritime activities. The proposed Transport Act in line with occasional coastal maritime transport will primarily comply with the provisions relating to the procedure for granting public service powers of general economic importance with EU rules. Moreover, the procedures relating to the pre-aid procedure in the form of public service compensation as well as public competition procedures for the provision of public service of general economic importance will be brought in line with the Public Procurement Act and the public procurement procedures for the award of concessions on lines with or without public service obligation will be brought in line with the concession law. The new law introduces a central information system of the public liner carriage of CIS in which shipowners in real time transmit data on the reading of passengers, maps when boarding passengers and vehicles and elaborated provisions on shipowners' obligations in the reading of tickets when boarding, landings which have not been particularly regulated by the current law. And I would like to stress here that there is no additional imposition, extra administrative burdens. It is that 3 existing and 2 and 3rd existing systems will actually be upgraded and made one united that will provide additional transparency and real-time recording. This recording of passengers in real-time when boarding a ship is of particular importance for the statistical monitoring of the number of passengers transported from the categories of passengers eligible for free or privileged transport for the management of the costs incurred by the State in their budget. The new law strengthens the public authority of the Coastal Line Transport Agency, including the authorisation of the Agency for the performance of inspection and control of the enforcement of EU Regulation No 117/2010 and the application of the provisions of the new law. The adoption of this law will complement the provisions on accounting separation and the methodology of accounting separation and the management of cost accounting at ship and crew level which have so far been the content of the sublegal act. The provisions of the new law prescribe the content of financial and non-financial reports that shipowners carrying out public line transport are obliged to draw up and deliver to the Agency, are specific to the public service transport sector with an obligation and without a public service obligation, and in particular as regards measures to prevent excessive compensation which constitutes the prohibited state support. That law also contributes to a green transition with the ultimate objective of preserving the environment as one of the main backbones of the sustainable model of growth of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Zekanovic mentioned investment in infrastructure here, so he would only mention some 32 projects that are financed only from European funds without national funding. This is Cres, Crikvenica, Sibenik, he failed to say that he was just starting with the performance of works on the Sibenik terminal, Tkon, Sali, Split, Omis, Korčula, Dubrovnik, Split, Rab, Pag, Brač, Solta, so there is no county in which currently not working, do not work, do not implement European projects financed from, from European funds. As far as the NPOO is concerned, the European Commission did not impose on us the adoption of this law, but we ourselves wanted to contribute further to the quality of this law, and we are happy that the first ships will be financed from the NPOO, precisely the Tiyat-type ship, one of them will be in the Dubrovnik area, one in the Sibenik area, one in the Lošinj area, and the 5 catamarans that makes us extremely happy. And I would also like to point out that we are still moving with the renewal of the fleet, with the encouragement of our shipowners, who, with this law and the availability of European funds, will gain competitiveness and get the opportunity to join and exploit European funds and actually strengthen Croatia as a maritime state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72134	Thank you. We have a large number of amendments amazingly, I don't understand why Replica, excuse me. [[/Step from the bench: The replica is that.]] Here he is, the first respected representative of the coat of arms of Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72135	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is well known who are the emergency services in the Republic of Croatia. They are also defined in the Civil Protection Act, so they are firefighters, the GSS and the Emergency Medical Service. Emergency medical care is financed from HZZO defined by the team price, whether it works in Nasice or works on Brac. Since these are large funds that cost sanity vehicles to transport by ferry to the mainland, as we have a great cost when we raise a ferry that we must pay even though we are saving lives, these are the means that are very burdensome for emergency medicine that is located in the Dalmatian and have an island area. I'm asking you nicely to consider that with firemen, I welcome this as a measure, it should be followed by the GSS as such exemptions and vehicles of the Emergency Medical Service.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72136	Thank you. Dear Secretary Bilaver.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72137	I appreciate the suggestion. It is certainly important to us, and we are certainly grateful for everything the emergency service does and how much it contributes. You have previously mentioned a project to rebuild the fleet and a very good cooperation between the port captain and emergency services, so we will certainly consider that proposal. At this point, I believe that the biggest problem in funding is just the firemen, and all other services during the emergency or during the intervention have free transportation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72138	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72139	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, a lot of colleagues in their discussions, and here you have looked back on one part because you have listed all the cities and all the islands and all the ports where the ministry invests, but a lot of colleagues have specifically mentioned Split. So here's my question, and here's my question. I'd take this law, but this opportunity, too, if here was something public right now, you'd tell me about investments and plans just for the port of Split. We know how important she is and the Republic of Croatia, but also the entire Adriatic, not to mention the Mediterranean. We know here we mentioned here and the statistics of the number of visitors i.e. The number and traffic and persons and cars, as well as the burden that passes through the port of Split, we know of the significance of the Republic of Croatia. For the past few years since the Eastern Coast Cruise Gate, I believe that it is also working to resolve the exit and entry from the port itself, I would just like you to use this minute to point out... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72140	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State Bilaver.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72141	Okay, you don't need to waste too much words on the importance of the Split port. As far as investment is concerned, we are already investing in the port of Split, I commend very good cooperation with the director of the Port Authority of Split. It is recently signed, I think it is currently worth over 25 million kuna in the implementation of the project at the port of Split. About the importance of Split is the fact that one of the two projects, both from Split-Dalmatia port-related counties, is one port to Bol in Brac, the second terminal of Split port, is financed from the NPOO and the funds are provided for it. However, I also know that in the realization of making documentation for the transfer of Split port to the northern port. He's recently, this summer has been declared a strategic project. The government of the Republic of Croatia is behind the project and we will certainly help all projects that come from Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72142	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72143	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, once again question whether there is a possibility for the ministry to end the will of a single individual who keeps the island of Rab in suspense, i.e. He hasn't done anything in nine years. Ever since the port opened. So I'm saying one more time, we don't have a public bathroom, there's as much space as they want, money was never a problem. The rap sail as a shipowner pays him 2 million kuna a year, he spends it as he wishes, is unable to build one security ramp for sailing during the storm because that ferry simply cannot agree and we cannot solve the issue that is most important for all of us there to have normal hygiene travel conditions. There's a million passengers and 250,000 vehicles, no one can stop him, the constituency board tried nothing, so the council is nothing, the ministers are nobody, so the mayor, I don't know who, just that man is driving us crazy and we just don't know what to do, he's doing nothing again, and he's taking all the money that belongs to him by law and he's not able to do basic things, documentation. Can the ministry take it upon itself if there are no other options?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72144	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State Bilaver.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72145	The county or institution you are talking about is the founder of Ličko-senjska County, therefore it has the highest responsibility in the process through the Governing Council. We are familiar with these problems, and we have made ourselves available several times to do so in a Colloquial way and we have offered funds precisely from all available Europeans, but we have also offered national funds to help. I'm here to warmly hope the county port administration will come to us with our projects. Some things will be dealt with by the new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, for example, the berth and the untiement you mentioned, and we also know about the problem that is, which weighs the Rape navigation, but here until then we appeal from this place to, to come with the completed projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72146	Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, since you said so yourself, and in the light of the law, it is said that this law will actually enable the realization of another tranche of payment of NPOO funds. In this sense, you mentioned this digital transition in a way that would allow ships to purchase electric ships on the one hand to protect the marine environment. How much information I had from the Agency for, for sailing, our agency in Split, is scheduled to build 3 ships, one for Elafite, the other for, for the Sibenik Islands, and the third one was planned for which part... Yeah, and if you could say that if you were going to realize the construction of those three ships? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72148	Dear Secretary of State Bilaver.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72149	We, we're talking to the European Commission, the funds are secured in the NPOO, it's about 3 Tiyat-type ships. With these two areas it's the third Lošinj area plus 5 catamarans. The condition that we finance them from European funds is that they are in a 100% alternative drive, now whether it will be hydrogen or batteries, should be given the word waist and those who do so. Otherwise we're looking for a model that would be the best, it's not even a model, and we're talking about the fact that the Coastal Line Transport Agency is the bearer of this project that will assign ships to the users of these lines for use.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72150	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72151	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you to comment or give a slightly better explanation about the ship's concerns that I have mentioned before regarding the obligation to invest in new construction and in general to improve and modernise the fleet. The shipmen themselves, of course, welcome such a single proposal, but as I said, there will be some kind of interspace where they will not be ready to adapt, they will remain part of this, and they actually need a lot of time and time, so here's some I'd like you to comment on it more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72152	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72153	I appreciate the question. The important thing is that none of the ship's shipmen, not one of the ship's competitors, will be excluded from the competition process because there is no new boat. With this incentive and this law we want to send a message that the Republic of Croatia must step up in time. As a member of the EU, and as a member of the UN, we have made certain commitments, I would say, for the transition to a neutral economy. Our goal is to get the show to zero CO2 as soon as possible. Therefore, one of the biggest contaminants is the transport sector, and this is how we wanted to send a message, and by opening European funds, we also give additional incentive and help our shipmen to start rebuilding the fleets and old ships that have to move on renewable energy sources to power plants, as well as those that buy to think exactly about these new ships on renewable, renewable alternative plants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72154	Thank you. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72155	Thank you. I also share my concern about my colleague Ante Bačić about the situation in the city of Split, and I am fully aware of what a priority it is given when the minister had to sit in a campaign in Renault 4 to address all of this problems in Split and it did not work out, so the next time he sits in Renault 5, it might be, maybe that progress gets better. And for what Mr. Boric said, I have a solution, that the settlement in which this ferry port is located joins the city of Rab and the Primorje-Gorski County, and then we will solve this problem with the common forces of our and your authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72156	A colleague named Bacic has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, in which it is for Jesus God...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72157	Art. 238. ... My colleague Bauk drives this ferry port every day. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just have to point out that little injustice, everything he sees and what was built at the ferry port we did, and he didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72158	Comrade Bačić, I ask you enough with such nonsense and such false violations of the Rules of Procedure. Of course you're getting a warning and I really don't have the nerve to admit at 5 and 15 that that's how we communicate. This esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72159	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, I'll be back perhaps a little on the subject of the harbor. So what's important is important for the islands is this possibility of traffic connection. In order for this transport connection to be of quality, ports are important to us. We have some ports that, therefore, we know that we are of national importance, county, local and all, and we know who is in charge of which. What we've got are some ports that have been from the time of Austro-Hungarian, so now they're reconstructed and upgraded. Which, therefore, you have some experience from the Ministry and you know certain data, I'm interested in how many more of those ports that are the jurisdiction of the state or county of this country you can't know about, but I assume you know this, how many more of these ports we need to bring to some decent level so we can secure what we're saying in this law. We are talking about traffic in this law, we can, paper can handle anything if certain ships have no place to come and no conditions are guaranteed to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72160	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72161	Thank you. You mentioned Austro-Hungarian, so here is often said that this much reconstruction and investment in ports has not been done by Emperor Francis Joseph. I must say that, in fact, the basis of this renovation and investment in ports was still set up during the time of Mr. Bacic's State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, it was made possible for us to invest intensively in the EU and it is now worth more than a billion kuna at the moment. It is 32 projects and they are all funded from the current still operational competitiveness and cohesion fund. Fortunately for us in the next period not only will we have the opportunity to rebuild all the additional several ports that have remained unrenewed but even investment in municipal connections because we know that our islanders and all those living in the coastal areas are deeply hampered by this problem of municipal bonds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72162	Dear Representative Sanader, vice president of this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I have tried through an individual debate to point to a problem of inequality of this state on highways and by transport, ship transport. I didn't understand, I was going out, I was going in, do you support it, what's your position on it, will you support our amendment, fireman?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72164	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72165	Thank you. As for the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, we express our full support for this initiative and the amendment, and I believe that such an amendment will also be adopted unanimously in the cabinet session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72166	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72173	We are now going to the point: - Final proposal of the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 212. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172, 204 and 206. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Joseph Bilaver, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72174	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the MPs and the MPs. It is my pleasure to present to you, as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the proposal for a Law on navigation and ports of internal waters with a final draft of the law. As of 1 November 2007, the Inland Waters Act has been in force since 1 November 2007. and since its entry into force four times has been changed and complemented. The current implementation of the applicable law has shown certain shortcomings such as insufficiently established provisions in the applicable law, as well as on ship insurance, cargo and passenger matters, the existing insufficient regulation of the issue of safety of navigation, river transport, protection against pollution of water and the environment from ships, and the issue of the removal of ships outside the port, insufficient legal regulation and investigation of navigational accidents, the procedures for the protection and rescue of ships, the lack of provisions on existing school crossings, and the absence of provisions in terms of legal basis on state aid and aid in shipbuilding of internal navigation, as well as the need to redefine the concept of a vessel which has so far been the cause of a number of misunderstandings and problems in practice, and in this respect to the precise definition of the concept of the ship's internal navigation with clear distinction from other types of vessels. The implementation of this law so far has also shown certain shortcomings, and the need for the adoption of a new Law on Navigation and the ports of internal waters to be removed, to remove existing collations in relation to other applicable regulations. The entry into force of the Law on Port Captains and the Law on concessions established the necessary need for the adoption of a new law in order to bring it into line with those laws in order to avoid double legislative regulation of the same problem. The award of concessions to carry out port activities in public ports on internal waters should also be brought into line with the concession law mentioned above, and all in order to comply with this regulation with the positive legal rules of the Republic of Croatia and to avoid a double and different legislative arrangement of the same problem. Then clearer regulation of the issue of state ownership, identification, and registration and erasure of internal navigation facilities in order to achieve legal assumptions for the ageing of a single register of Croatian ships already existing for maritime facilities, i.e. to establish a single register of maritime facilities and internal navigation facilities. This law requires a more detailed legal regulation of the existing conditions on the internal waters of the Republic of Croatia which have not been regulated at all, the problem of docking, berthing, anchoring, wintering, and carrying out the transport of passengers by boat, and then the rental of boats and others. It is also necessary to establish a new class of ports in respect of their purpose and to develop provisions on the order of the ports of internal waters with a view to improving the safety of navigation in ports and ports, and to provide for the possibility of carrying out secondary economic activities of minor importance, and to be carried out within a maximum of 20m2 of port areas for which no concession is required. Furthermore, in view of the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to take over the acquis within the national legislative framework, it is also necessary to implement, or transpose, provisions 6 of the EU Directives governing the areas covered by this Act in the new Law and in the ports of internal waters. This Law also seeks to regulate areas and institutes of importance for the more efficient and quality of water transport operations on the internal waters of the Republic of Croatia with a view to a positive impact on the internal water economy and the improvement of the legal framework in the field of water policy in the internal waters, and to reduce administrative burdens and to simplify procedures in line with European Union rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72175	Thank you very much. We also have on your exposure down the replicas. He is the first to have a respected representative, Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72176	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. This Law, among other things, will contribute to the development of a competitive and energy-efficient transport system as one of the objectives of the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, so I am interested in what is currently being done to meet this objective, because it is not only enough of the Law and Legislative Provisions, so I am also interested in what is being done on the waterway arrangements on our rivers, i.e. at present I am interested in the Sava River as our longest river and longest waterway in the Republic of Croatia and as well as the construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel which I am sure as well as one good basis for providing and rerouting intermodal freight transport from the Danube to our ports in the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72177	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72178	I thank you for asking, Your Honor. So here's what we have in the seaports, we also have big investments in the ports on the inland waterways. Even 5 projects financed from the Cohesion Competitiveness Operational Fund, 6 funded from the Fund.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language/... and 2 projects that will be financed from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan show that the Ministry is indeed taking care of investments in port infrastructure on inland waterways. As far as cities and ports are concerned, there is investment in Slavonski Brod, in Vukovar, Opatovac, Zimnik Opatovac, Sotin, Osijek that is all ports, but we are certainly left with investment, increased investment and concerns about the wateriness of roads and on our river I believe that we will give an additional impulse in the future on this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72179	Honorable representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72180	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Speaking of the definition of vessels themselves since last year, we know that port captains are conducting technical inspections for ships under the new Regulation and permanent registration has been lifted. I'm just wondering, in the last year, are you following the development of this? Because I think that's too much work to do and to see the number of boats themselves, and if our port captains have enough capacity to do this particular job, because these technical checks themselves, we've seen some incidents we've had on boats in our ports. Thank God there weren't many of them, but this technical review is still a safety prerequisite that port captains have to perform and that we've introduced. It's just now that the question is whether we can do it when we see the number of employees in port captains and opposite the number of boats we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72181	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72182	I would like to thank Honorable Representative Bacic for asking. Well, all the regulations we've put in place for the purpose of raising the safety standards of the vessel both at sea and inland waterways. In the first wave, they're not very welcome with great approval. Of course, one reason is that this further creates certain financial pressures on the present, or future owners of those vessels. However, safety has no price and I believe that this is a good way to go and that we have managed to reduce in a large number of accidents that have happened before. As far as the port captain is concerned, we are currently in a phase of fleet renewal and we want to restore to full in the next few years and certainly with an increase in the number of vessels to raise the quality of our employees' work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72183	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This Proposal for a Law is proposed among other things. 172 that exactly which port administrations will carry out their activities in which area? So it is under point 4 that ports in the area of Krka National Park and Sibenik-Knin County will be managed by the port administration of Sisak. I think it would be good to reconsider why when there is a port administration of Sibenik-Knin County that manages the ports I know, along the sea, everyone else that it does not manage then and the ports of those within the Krka National Park which is the same in our County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72185	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72186	I thank you for the question, and I must agree that there is quite a logic of your proposal, or of the requirements that we met during the public consultation. However, at this point without amending the other laws, we did not want to bring ourselves, but also the port administrations into an empty space, I would say, and therefore we decided to go with this proposal, but we can also now announce that, with the amendments to those laws, the Law on Maritime Good, Marine Ports, the Law of the Sea, with the adoption of this great code, with less changes to other laws, we will take account of this and in the future, we may also correct this illogicality. At this point, I believe that certain revenues to the port administration of Sisak will also be welcome in view of all the damage caused by the earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72187	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72188	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, I am interested in this part of the discussion of administrative dispensation and that it will enable entrepreneurs to act more easily under this law, so I will refer very much to the provisions that go from article. 137, so there are 4-5 articles that talk about how, as is the process of technical documentation for works, so how is the process of working on the basis of a special law to result in a locational or construction permit, or when no location and construction permit is required, and then it seems to me that the whole process has become a little complicated. You, among other things, where you will go further locational and construction is clear, but where works do not require locational and construction process there is not until the end clear and I fear there will be no discharging but an additional burden on entrepreneurs, so please comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72189	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72190	Thank you for your comment. We, we have passed and brought this law because we have to comply with the series, with a series of laws and the Law on Port Captainy, the Law on concessions and what we are pleased to have increased requirements or the number of investments by privates, especially here, can be mentioned in the last few months the expansion of the number of cargo in the port of Slavonski Brod, in the port of Sisak, so it certainly wasn't an intensification of this law to further burden and further complicate, but if we are sure there are ways to, as well as how to jump into this problem. It wasn't in any way to complicate an additional thing which, however, we wanted to further administratively disburse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72191	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72192	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, in the second part of the amendments, we are actually in line with EU directives and we are dealing with administrative issues, but we welcome that, of course. But I ask you how much will actually be facilitated and encouraged by business in this sector except for these administrative solutions because how you actually encourage more developed river traffic because here you have now mentioned the port of Slavonski Brod and the expansion of its business. We know that only the port of the ship has been denied access for almost 9 months a year due to water stops and due to an unsettled waterway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72193	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72194	Thank you. Luka Slavonski Brod is one of the biggest users of the Connecting Fund, to connect Europe, and several months ago the project was completed. He, in synergy with rail transport, will surely contribute to the economic development and expansion of Slavonski Brod and that was our goal. And not only in Slavonski Brod, but also in Osijek and Vukovar and all other cities that have developed port, port infrastructure. The state is here to create an infrastructure framework, to create a legislative framework. When this is settled, a private initiative will also come, and an entrepreneurial initiative will come. Our directors of the port administrations think they're doing a good job on, right at attracting additional investments and I believe that in the inland waterways we're only expecting progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72195	Thank you. Dear Representative Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72196	... Namely, the port administration of Osijek concluded in May 2017. A grant contract for a project to build a terminal for the transport of scattered cargo at the port of Osijek. [[Last-on speaker]] As we know, this was the first project of all river and sea ports in the area of the Republic of Croatia approved for co-financing from EU funds. The total value of the terminal construction project was i.e. It amounts to 145 million kuna, while the co-financing contract is an acceptable 90% of the cost, or by calculating it, we get to 117 million kuna. What I'm interested in and what I'm asking is, at what stage is this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72197	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72198	I thank Representative Radic. The project is individually the largest of all investments in port infrastructure on inland waterways. He's certainly at the port administration conducting public procurement procedures. As far as I have the information last I think a decision has been made on the contractor and that the procedure on the state procurement commission is so that depending on their urgency we expect after that and the start of the work. In addition to this project at the port administration Osijek we have and we have had works on sports infrastructure, but also on Batina and on all the other projects that we are developing there. But the same problem as in Slavonski Brod is, of course, in Osijek, which is, what follows us, which is stronger, greater volume of work to improve waterways.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72199	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to open a debate on this point and the first one will speak on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72200	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. So we have an emergency procedure here in the late hours of the day when we have current mornings that tire out all the parliamentary representatives and all those who participate in the debates, we have in the emergency procedure of the proposal of the Law on Navigation and the ports of the internal waters. I'm sorry he's in emergency procedure, I think it would be much better and more effective if we went with a law like this in two readings because then between the two readings, you could define some things. I always stay a little distracted, try to explain to myself why some law that is very simple is decided on two readings, and some who would really ask for some more and debate and perhaps some improvements, let's decide to go to one reading. We have three laws from the area, so to say Minister Butkovic, all three go into emergency procedures, two today, one tomorrow. When I looked at them a little bit then I read it in the context of the budget, so I understood in the context of the budget why you chose emergency procedure that some items should be in the budget, but it shouldn't always be so. So much for emergency procedures. What's important for this law is that I read it with several aspects. One aspect is, of course, the administrative legal aspect and all the elements to make it possible to implement the law, the other are the people who participate in the implementation of this law and the third are some things that, I will allow a little time to relate to the Danube-Sava channel which is also mentioned here and I don't know how many times we mention it, so I will eventually allow myself a few sentences about it. First, it's about what I also told the secretary of state about the procedure. So on the one hand, I haven't met a single legal proposal in which we're not going to say a few things in the beginning. The first thing is that this law allows for administrative discharge or simplification of procedures, then that, in this way, we will have a quality influence, so entrepreneurs will be able to work more easily and then we swear now that the latest plan, the green European plan, and of course we will also connect our NPOO, and then we will talk about this, about this environmental aspect and, of course, every law has one part of the information, and then everything will be informed, and in the public space we have the opportunity to hear what it is like when one ministry decided how the minister ended, but I will not talk about it, but I will return to the subject of the law. What I said, so what I've met in the area I've been working on and I'm still following and trying to do, which is your area of spatial planning and construction and the area of how to get out and get permits. On the one hand, we're going to declare that we have procedures that need to be faster, that have to be simpler and everything else and that, that reminds me of that one train. And now someone, the one who, that old train that goes to the coal and now these guys in the engine are trying all that coal as fast as they can to get the train going faster, and those in the back wagons are getting into the train. So I think there's just a little bit of the ministry complicated life and after no law is carved into stone, so it's not this one either. So that procedure when you decide on the basis of a special law, it is the Law on Spatial Planning or the Construction Act you go to get a building permit and then it is clear that the designer is obliged to establish the conditions for designing and then consent to an act confirming the main project. That act is your administrative procedure, so the ministry will have an administrative procedure. But the ministry will also have an administrative procedure in case it is not necessary to issue these acts because it is work that, for which you do not need to obtain a local and building permit or confirmation of the main project. You will also have this procedure because you will also ask for special conditions, or after that, for some consent, and there you also have in the process those who are at local level. So I'm not sure that this ministry is going to make life easier, or the smaller problem is that the ministry will or won't make life easier, the bigger the problem for you is that you're going to work, who's going to be the performer has a problem there. Of course it's said that communication is possible in electronic form because today it's hard not to be different, but give me a minute now is, we're first and second reading, so this law will be voted on. You're a little bit of everything together, you see what it's like and how it is. Further than the article. In 140, you have that administrative procedure regarding traffic consent, so there's a little bit simpler for me, but this part of the distinction when you go to a local or construction permit or when you're not going to go, I'm afraid you're not there until the end, so read it a little bit and see what happens and how it happens here and what's going to be your problem. You have the same provision, that provision of an article. 162, and further, you are bound by how they go, or who gives, and under what conditions, which are, what are ports and then in art. The 162nd port area of the state body determines by the regulation the government, which is absolutely clear, and the port areas of the port of special purpose, so the specific purposes are known where, which are now defined there, the decision determines the minister and then, of course, there is no appeal to that decision, but the administrative dispute can be initiated. I'm guessing this procedure isn't administrative, it's just going to be a decision that the administrative dispute is going on, that you've decided on that model. There you can have a problem with, so I'm only talking about this administrative part, and I think you've made things a little bit complicated here, but by law you'll be working on it, so you'll see what it's about. I kind of speeded it up a little bit, but I wanted to stress it because I really do have a feeling in the desire of this declarative discharge that you're burdening and that you're burdening the system that the ministry is then, of course, not only does the ministry work, but it's asking the field for some consent and a certain opinion that it's not more pro-pulsive or faster than it is in the desire to be a contrast, but let's give the law a chance to work, to be, so we'll see what it's about. Kanal Dunav-Sava I had a need to say something. As soon as the subject is un... so the sailing of the inner water we mention it. The first time for the Danube-Sava channel was mentioned, I found it in literature was mentioned in 1893. There was a meeting in the Vinkovci where there was talk of the necessity of the channel, so 1893. I must admit that I was first in the area of Vukovar right after a peaceful reintegration of the Danube space. It was I think spring there from the summer of 1998 when I was a member of the Environmental Impact Assessment Committee for the Danube-Sava Channel and we were really in one condition very unusual, then you didn't have a six de facto and drink coffee. A quite large commission went and we were on the ground as much as the terrain could go according to a series of conditions, because there was an environmental impact assessment for the Danube-Sava channel because it was an important project at the time. Among other things, it was very important and quickly had to be adopted and the spatial plan of the area of special features, so it was passed ten years ago after this assessment. And, no, I'm afraid of any government out there since the 2000s on here that doesn't mention the Danube-Sava Channel in its plans. I think now and with the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, that channel is equally mentioned. And it seems to me that in 2021, the time has come for a healthy rationale to really think, to see, or as far as it can be seen, because I'm afraid that after this crown has completely kicked us out of our shoes all together that some projections of development there by 2050 in which direction is going to go is an illusion, but what I'm saying is I'm trying to sum it up in one sentence. Let's think and see really, today in these conditions what the Danube-Sava Channel means and make further decisions on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72201	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Pero Cosic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72202	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. Here is what the Proposer stressed so far the implementation of this Law, which was passed 14 years ago, has shown that it needs to be improved and brought this matter into line with the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the regulations of the European Union. The internal navigation of branches is a transport that still has insufficient use of potential, so the purpose of adopting this Act is to regulate the issue of navigation and the ports of internal waters in a sovereign way, while also removing existing cohesions in relation to other applicable regulations. The proposed Law is in line with the Law on Port Captains and the Law on concessions in order to be equal to the legislative arrangement, the regulation of the same problem. This applies to the powers of the port captains, inspection controls on the issue of inland navigation security, and concessions on the performance of port activities in public ports on internal waters. Therefore, these new laws, which we are now considering inland navigation and ports, as well as the Law on line and occasional coastal transport, will be considered at the last point. Ensure uniformity in the implementation of the legal obligations of public ports management. Due to the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to take over legal property of the European Union in the national legislative framework, provisions of a series of European directives governing the area under this Act are implemented in the new law. The adoption of this Act will improve the regulatory regulation of internal water problems, reduce administrative burdens and simplify procedures. This will be ensured through compliance with the Port Captains Act, as so far separated navigation security functions at sea will be coordinated and united from internal water security functions through a single administrative system. We expect that these will provide more efficient and more economical and quality services to both citizens and economic operators, as well as to this Law, and some of the issues will be more detailed, such as the conditions and way of obtaining professional and complementary training of crew members, keeping a logbook, establishing legal assumptions for making and keeping records of shipowners' certificates at European Union level, thereby bringing together data on shipowners and their personal documents in existing records that the Ministry leads to seamen with the aim of uniting data from seamen and shipmen in one place. There are clearer issues about state membership, identification of entries and erasure of internal navigation facilities in order to make legal assumptions for the creation of a unique register of ships of the Republic of Croatia that already exist for maritime facilities, i.e. a single register of maritime facilities and internal navigation facilities will be established, as today's maritime register is electronic for seamen while inland navigation vessels have a book of registration and this certificate or registration certificate can only be obtained in paper form. In the internal water navigation segment, we also want to increase the safety of navigation and protect the environment from pollution. The proposal for a law aimed at protecting the environment makes it clearer and more comprehensively defined protection of water and the environment from pollution and objects, from internal navigation facilities. I must remind here that, according to the European Green Plan, climate neutrality should be achieved by 2050, and why, among other things, a 90% reduction in CO2 emissions from transport and for the purpose of achieving this objective, all members of the European Union must strongly encourage the development of multimodal transport and reroute road transport to greener traffic, such as transport to railways and inland river waterways. We therefore expect that the adoption and implementation of this law will help revitalise internal waterways, and the internal waterways in the Republic of Croatia are compared to the waterways of EU countries and third countries in our environment, one of I would say unique and rare from the perspective of nature conservation. Namely, the waterways of our rivers have not changed significantly in the construction and in some industrial sense, i.e. their nature, shape and state model for other countries in the EU. Taking into account the European waterway network, it can be clearly concluded that rivers in the Republic of Croatia, unlike most European rivers, are not channelled, there are no meanings of any artificial barriers such as dams, constitutions, translators, which would make it impossible for natural migration of plant and animal species. However, the state of the river in the Republic of Croatia in a navigational sense has been markedly deteriorated compared to other forms of sustainable human activity in multi-purpose water use, in particular the state of the Sava and Drava waterway. With regard to transport, all possible resources should be invested in order to ensure the necessary and appropriate infrastructure, but taking into account that this does not endanger or worsen the current state of ecologicality on rivers in the Republic of Croatia. In line with the Roadmap towards the creation of a single European transport area, it is planned until 2050. more than 50% of the freight carried by road at a distance of more than 300 km shall be moved to other modes of transport such as rail or waterway with the help of efficient freight corridors and appropriate infrastructure will be required to meet that objective. And in that sense, you should consider the idea that was conceived more than 250 years ago, which is the construction of the Danube-Sava channel. The multi-purpose channel would mean a reduction in the length of the road to the west of Europe 400km, towards the east 80km. And in particular, here are the cargo carriers always looking for the shortest and most favourable route in the form of intermodal transport, and this channel would mark a turning point in rerouting freight transport from the Danube to the Adriatic ports and, of course, the construction of that channel would help modernise agriculture in Slavonia, since it would be the basis for a system of irrigation, would, of course, be an important factor in the defence of floods, as well as safe for the environment. Channel Danube-Sava I dare say is a Slavonic bridge because building that channel would connect the internal waterways, meaning Sava, Danube, Drava within the borders of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that the Croatian national interest, or our national and European importance, would require the integration of internal waterways within the EU's single space. It is now your chance to implement such large and useful projects, in line with the objectives of moving traffic from road to other greener alternatives. I would like to remind you, the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel has been included in the strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia. ... Waters is a very complex business, but if properly and strategically managed waters, both the sea and the waters on land certainly bring multiple benefits to the economy and society as a whole. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I believe that the adoption of this law and its implementation will ensure the integration of the internal waterway transport system into the comprehensive transport system of the Republic of Croatia and the EU, and will contribute to the development of a competitive energy sustainable and efficient transport system as one of the NPOO objectives, and its adoption is also one of the preconditions for the withdrawal of the allocated funds, so here is why the HDZ Club proposes that we adopt this final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72203	The next Club of Representatives will be the Social Democrats, and the honourable representative Marina Opačak Bilic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72204	Thank you very much, Vice President, Secretary of State and Associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is when we discuss the Law on Navigation and the ports of internal waters, the first thing that we have in mind is that waterways and river ports should certainly have a stronger effect and be used more for the economic development of the first eastern Croatia and then the entire Republic of Croatia. All our river ports and their ports are characterized by undeveloped infrastructure and an unrelated logical network. Since river transport of the Republic of Croatia is part of the European transport system because we are connected by rivers to almost all of Europe, we have good assumptions for developed river transport. To this day, despite all this, he does not use himself in his fullness. On the Sava River, Luke is stagnating even though inland waterways traffic is the most efficient, environmentally acceptable and ultimately the most profitable form of transport. We therefore support any further improvement and strengthening of this sector in order to make maximum use of all the benefits of river transport. We expect that the adoption of a new law will encourage the strengthening of internal navigation, and that we will move along that all our river ports have a purpose for which they are because we know that, for example, we have already mentioned ourselves in the replicas of the port of Brod in which a lot of money has been invested, in fact most of the year cannot be used and can not actually be approached by waterways at all because of water stops. Just for a second, yes, our great rivers should actually be used in most of the year and they should actually ensure that in as many days as possible throughout the year. In order to restore the fleet that is planned for this, these changes and which will actually be encouraged to work and to ensure that professional staff have safe employment and that as few vessels as possible are in the prime and as many as possible in the drive, it is necessary to actually have this very fleet. When I mentioned professional personnel, it should be said that from the area of change relating to the crew of the ship's inner waters in terms of conditions and ways of acquiring the professional and complementary training of crew members, Croatia can naturally be praised as a country known for its qualified crew and commanders and we know that the creation of expert staff is a particular shipman, a system of acquiring the qualification of the crew of internal navigation, a long-term and continuous process that will now be improved. As I said, they should be allowed employment in this for us and Slavons and Baranjas of traditional occupation. In most parts of the Law, it is in line with the European Union directives, and the other amendments remain an open issue relating to ships, which I mentioned in part to the Committee, but I believe that, in the final presentation, the Secretary of State will explain a little more. So, the vessels in the debate are actually mentioned in the reasoning of the Law although the provisions are not prescribed by the Law but by the Regulation adopted specifically by the Minister, and it is currently in force for the provision that standing in the allocation of permits for a period of 12 months and it costs 1,200 kn per vessel, which is certainly a considerable cost for shipowners, as these are the inability to sail more than they do, and here we suggest that an extension of the allocation permit be considered or that the amount of compensation be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72205	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP. They'll speak to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72206	Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The difference in the atmosphere and the number of people present at the debate on sea navigation and river navigation is significant. Probably the content of the debate itself and the duration, etc. And this topic is actually less attractive than the one that happened last year because you don't have a group of citizens who really identify themselves with it, it depends on everyday life, not just work. What my colleague Marina said about traditional occupations is mainly about those people who work there and public transport by rivers is usually not used by us except for the schooling, but it's not now, it's not a topic. It's a matter of fact, even the public hearing, the public consultation had four, four participants from whom the three were from the sea, right? One from Sibenik and one from Senj who made two remarks and only actually one Mr. Marinovic added an observation that was accepted or accepted on the basis of knowledge of other and military ships, etc. It actually shows us that there aren't many issues in this law. That, as usual, the Government has used the harmonisation or application of the Directives of the European Union in order to send the Law into emergency reading and, by the way, make a completely formal part of the new Law, given that the applicable Law has been in force with several amendments since 2007. In view of this and therefore it is mainly about the application of the directive without the rest being so controversial, we will also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72207	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. The first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Stipan Sashlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72208	I will say something on behalf of the rare Pannonian sailors about this problem, because I am truly happy that this law has finally come to the agenda here in the Parliament and that we can say something about it is. Not only will I express my satisfaction that this law will practically bring our legislation into line with European legislation, etc. I am more pleased that this law will correct, or more precisely, many provisions and simplify procedures in implementing often some projects that simply because of the great complexity or indeterminateness of the law were often difficult to implement. I have often talked about this issue of river navigation, or our inner rivers and sailing, in the sense that the Republic of Croatia needs more and more significant use of the potentials that our rivers provide and in terms of sailing as waterways, but also in terms of tourism, tourism development, the development of a general economy in this area. When we look at the fact or look at the geographical position or the spread of our rivers at least these main ones to say the Danube River, Sava, Drava, we see that often times or in a large part of that river they correspond practically to the State border and the fact is unfortunately that those 30 years ago or at the time of the Homeland War were practically blocked, that the infrastructure on them was almost completely destroyed, that the fleet was reduced or almost missing, the river fleet, and that it simply died in some way on those rivers. But today, 25 years after the Homeland War, this is exactly our river, and it should serve us as the main link not only to the countries of our neighbours but also to Central Southeast Europe and beyond, as much as possible. In that sense, seven years ago. We are in the Danube in Batina, I come there from the Danube, practically from the municipality of Draž, we built a port, a tourist port for river cruisers, and it was quite difficult at the beginning of the first year of the two days, but already in 2019. We had over 150 landings of tourist cruises in that port. How important it is for the development of continental tourism not only Baranja but for the entire Osijek-Baranja County I don't think there's really a need now to, to, to, to, to talk about it right. At present we are working on a river marina, or communal port, which has proved to be a dry need to tie these boats, which are unfortunately tied along the Danube River by now, and in this way we will practically increase the safety of the Danube waterway, and also in one way introduce order into, in, in, in that part of the dish itself. The project itself refers to some 50th and some connections, and already we have a pre-reserved or announced need somewhere around 55-'6 bonds, so lucky that the project will be able to if there are needs and upgrades so that we will probably provide a sufficient number of connections. Another problem that I want to highlight is what will be corrected by this law, which is the problem of floating water facilities, mainly on rivers or barns on our lakes, we have an old Danube stream there. And these floating water facilities simply weren't exactly defined how, under which conditions and where they can be set, so often there was the emergence of illegal setting up of maltene entire settlements on the water, is now precisely defined by this law, so I say, thanks to that, I believe that this problem will be successfully solved. It's in art. In 60, 61 and 62 very precisely defined who, where and under what conditions such vessels can set up, as I say it would all be regulated by law. Here, thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72209	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable Representative Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72210	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Shaslin, you mentioned the port for river cruisers in Batina where you came from and how you had a large number of cruisers before the pandemic, which I would say was that in the city of Osijek before the pandemic there were 34 river cruisers who agreed with over 4,000 guests. On 30.3.2021 we officially opened a cruise port in Osijek worth 13.8 million kuna fully funded from the Croatian budget. How much such a port means not only for Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County but also for the whole of Slavonia I do not have to mention. We hope that the pandemic will end as soon as possible and that we will strengthen these figures not only in the city of Osijek but also in Batina and throughout Baranja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72211	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72212	Here's a thank you, colleague. This one, not only did we allow the cruisers to arrive there, but we also made possible the departures of the cruises from Osijek towards the Central European cities or ports of the Danube so that our citizens, who have been here these years, have been practically discovered and this way, the type of tourism, has made it possible for them to move practically from Osijek. What I would like to emphasise is that it is very important to ensure that the Drava River is waterproof in all conditions, and this is particularly important in those summer months when the water stops being the lowest to ensure that the sands that I say often simply make it difficult for ships to, at the dock or at the port of Osijek. Here is indeed the Osijek-Baranja County that puts great emphasis on the development of continental tourism, and this very river tourism is one of the most important segments of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72213	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative Ivan Radic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72214	... I welcome the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters, it has been in force since 1 November 2007, and has been amended four times and complemented. [[Last-on speaker]] However, regardless of its changes and additions, the current implementation of this law has shown shortcomings in application. For example. The provisions on applicable law, provisions on matters relating to the insurance of ships, cargo and passengers are not sufficiently laid down. Furthermore, non-satisfactory regulated issues of navigation safety, river transport, water pollution and the environment from ships, the removal of ships outside the port are not satisfactory. In legislative practice, the need for a more precise indication of the concept of a vessel which has so far been the cause of a number of concerns and problems in practice, thus defining the ship with a clear distinction from other types of vessels. All of this resulted in the need for the adoption of a new Law on Navigation and the ports of internal waters, which would have been more precisely regulated, and to remove existing misunderstandings in relation to other important regulations. At this time, this bill would specifically regulate water transport on the internal waters of the Republic of Croatia and the safety of inland water navigation. The proposed law would also reduce administrative burdens and simplify itself with it and procedures. What is important to emphasise is that the bill will have positive effects not only on the sustainable development of JLS related to the development of green and blue infrastructure as key instruments for strengthening resilience to climate change and the growing challenges they pose for urban and economic development of urban areas and environmental protection. Development of river transport as a sustainable and green mode of public urban transport, modelled by some European cities such as Vienna, Budapest or London. These, of course, are related to the development of nautical tourism on internal waters as already discussed and mentioned earlier, but also to a number of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs through the issue of electronic documents in terms of simplifying and speeding up the process of obtaining them and reducing the costs of obtaining them. It is therefore to conclude that the proposal for a law would establish a modern legal framework in line with the legal acquis of the European Union as a basis for effective management of matters of public and general interest and of special interest to the Republic of Croatia in the water transport segment in the internal waters of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-24-0.u72215	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. And we've come to the end of today's work. We'll get back to work tomorrow, at 9.30 p.m. Thursday. The first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Roads Act. Have a good evening. Session interrupted at 18.12.
