ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u57775	Thank you. Here at the beginning, as the chairman of the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, I will express my dissatisfaction with the fact that both Parliament Speaker Jandrokovic and Vice-President Sanader violated the Rules of Procedure today, did not allow me to read the opinion of the relevant committee, the working body of HS during the debate on the Anti-Corruption Strategy. And do you know why? Because the National Council did not accept this strategy, it did not pass on to the home work body because it is clear to everyone that it is actually a dead letter on paper. He also told his colleague Petrov about this on behalf of the club and fellow fellow Miletic that we have been delivered here a bureaucratic document which can only be read if you close your nose firmly, especially if you are looking at all these affairs that we are witnessing from day to day in which the ruling party participates, especially if you consider that this party is legally convicted of corruption. And it might be good to look back at the affairs we read about these days in the media that RBA Leasing damaged 50,000 Croatian citizens for about 700 million kuna. So here we see how banks, how financial institutions behave in the Republic of Croatia and who made it possible for them. The ruling party enabled them, provided regulatory authorities, provided them with bodies that allegedly prevent corruption and fight corruption, and in fact we have a situation for these bodies to be permanently cut by powers, as well as the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest. And you know what's best of all? What if when we accuse the ruling for corruption, they draw decisions from the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests which they have just brought down and whose presidents have complained about it and then the courts are breaking those judgments and now they use it as an argument against the opposition, and we in the opposition, we in Mosta, demand that the powers of the commission be strengthened, and you want them, you want to cut them. So what you should say here a few years ago in Croatia was the fight against corruption actually had a much greater meaning, and this body that we're talking about had some kind of function. For example. A few years ago, even the president of the state had to deliver his travel orders paid for by Croatian citizens, and today even the travel orders of the HDZ ambassador's wife are declared a state secret, so imagine that it is a state secret that anti-corruption bodies, that the bodies of HS, that parliamentary representatives, that the public have an insight of how money is spent by Croatian taxpayers. It is not surprising that this is happening to us, it is not, it is not surprising that we are champions of corruption in the EU. This is also said by the Transperensi, the European Commission's Eurobarometer argues, and the government for us in this strategy, which is actually proposed, says the data of these measurements for the Republic of Croatia do not reflect the positive shifts carried out over the recent period. So the government is going to convince us as to how the specific data of the European Commission is actually not correct because they do not match this pink state that they represent for us here and where their experts in the beauty of reality like colleagues Boric want to say that it is not what they say in the data but it is what they claim. What exactly are the positive developments in the fight against corruption, this Mr. Boric, and what are your goals in the fight against corruption? You are telling us that in 2030 Croatia should take the place now in Bulgaria, so Croatia would also be 10 years from now. should be on these scales well below the EU average. So, I think that in order to determine the main pattern of corruption in Croatia, that's what the colleagues said, it is not a strategy to read, but this rightful verdict we talked about, and I hope that in Croatia, it will not happen that banks, that telecoms draw money from the pockets of Croatian citizens, and that they have the protection of the ruling HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u57776	Here's what we're done with. We're going back to the agenda. Following is the presentation on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored representative Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u57923	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. From October 3rd to October 5th in the Polish Parliament, the Forum of Young Parliamentarians of the Three Seas Initiative took place in front of HS, where counterpart Marko Milanović litre and my smallness took part. The forum was held in the organisation of young Polish parliamentarians who were also participants in the forum. The opening statement was opened by the president of the Elsbiet Witek fair, as well. In addition to Polish and Croatian parliamentarians, parliamentarians from Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia attended the forum as a whole by representatives of 9 to 12 of the countries of the Three Sea Initiative, the forum was organised as a two-day panel discussion. The first panel played a role in national parliaments in the construction and promotion of the Three Seas Initiative, the topic of the second panel was energy, transport, cultural institutions, sectoral cooperation in the development of the Three Seas Initiative countries. The third panel addressed the topic of geopolitical importance of the Three Seas Initiative for a stronger role in Central Europe, and the fourth panel was entitled "The role of young parliamentarians in the development of the Three Seas Initiative". The objectives of the Three Seas Initiative are based on European principles and are aimed at developing Central Europe through achieving economic integration, strengthening competitiveness, raising and usability of EU funds and diversifying energy sources. Therefore, by decision of the Government of 14 October 2020, The Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has been appointed to the National Co-ordinator for the Three Seas Initiative with the aim of coordinating activities related to Croatia's participation in this initiative. Through the Three Seas Initiative, Croatia is able to prosper and take the place of one of the most important countries in Central Europe thanks to its favourable geostrategic position, so that we can improve the Adriatic ports are strategically located in the most profitable maritime direction from the Far East via the Suez Canal towards Central Europe, which is 2,000 nautical miles shorter than the Rotterdam or Hamburg ports. Croatia is therefore able to become the main import-export point for the distribution and placement of goods from the Far East to the Central Europe market. The river ports by realising the Czech project Three Rivers and building canals that will connect the rivers Labu, Odre and Danube will allow waterability of rivers from the north to the south of Europe, which could achieve the full potential of Luke Vukovar and create about 25,000 jobs. Railway routes, by building a low-level two-way railway from Luka Rijeka to Budapest, would speed up the placement of goods on Central Europe markets and would fully exploit the potential of Luke Rijeka and, in time, Luka Zadar and Ploče. Digital economy by building adequate infrastructure for the purpose of capacity-building for the adoption of new digital technologies in order to enable a broadband network or to meet the basic precondition for moving to a digital economy. The digital economy expands markets, improves services at acceptable prices and creates new sources of employment. Energy, through LNG terminal on the island of Krk, Croatia has already positioned itself as a key supply point of energy in southern Europe with capacity purchased years in advance. It will also contribute to the realization of other Croatian energy projects such as the Ionian-Adriatic Gas pipeline. The priority is to ensure the establishment of two-way gas between Baltic and the Adriatic, thus helping to strengthen links between the corridors of the north and south of Europe, thus increasing the number of potential gas suppliers in the corridor and enabling the necessary diversification. So far, Croatia has successfully included 11 of its projects in the catalogue of strategic projects of the Three Seas Initiative, three in the field of energy, one in the digital sector and seven in the area of transport integration in total value of €782 million. The initiative contributes to the protection of the interests of Central European countries, strengthening regional co-operation in the energy, transport and communication sectors, and with joint political support from the participating countries, it will contribute to the achievement of the objectives pursued, better integration of Central European countries, with more effective use of all available European support instruments. What has left the impression is that the success of the Forum of Young Parliamentarians being held, that the Three must draw closer to national parliaments or through the promotion of our young parliamentarians or through the establishment of a committee within national parliaments. All in all form is considered successful, the option of maintaining a new forum remains open, but it is not specified where or when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u57983	Okay. Since it's 13 o'clock now, we're going to have to cut the debate short. We are going to take a stand, the first to present a position was registered by the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u57984	Thank you. Dears, what is the key to the success of those who have become rich on the incentives that Croatia has been sharing with the support of the European Structural Funds 15 years ago with a hand and a hat? About this today, many media are writing and the topic deserves someone to excuse it in front of this pay phone. Approximately like this, you register a company for agricultural production or livestock production, not O.P.G., they're still some other story, they're not at the mercy of our ministry, and it's very unlikely that you'll pass the contest, but rather the company. Then you apply to EU funds through the Agricultural Payment Agency, you get several million kunas for more extensive livestock farming, fruit and vineyard lifts, fruit and vegetable processing plants, or something like that, you forget what you promised in a project that you applied to, if you accidentally got animals, you forget about them, and then you leave them, and they find themselves looking for food and trying to stay alive. In the meantime, you shut down the company or it goes bankrupt, you never pay back the money, no court can make a forced payment of something that does not exist, there is no jury account or responsible person because the Croatian legislation firm has ceased to exist. And that thus testifies the findings of state auditors who combing the business of the Ministry of Agriculture have established the existence of millions of debts of individuals who will certainly never be charged because companies have long gone bankrupt, and the resulting and spent incentives are not recorded in bankruptcy, and the easiest way to collect incentives through the cow-body system is the easiest way. It is about the extensive breeding of cattle that millions of kunas turn on, and nothing would be a problem for owners to take care of the cows they collect money on. Such cows are left to themselves, the calf itself, the living themselves, are guessing, in summer they suffer from thirst, and in winter they suffer from coldness. The owners of them only know when to list serial numbers for the calculation of incentives, thereby causing shame and harm to all those to whom the animal is mild and keeping it as a pupil of their own eye. The auditors have found that users of EU pre-accession funds accidentally spent as much as 18.6 million kuna. However, over the users of these measures, a bankruptcy procedure has been concluded and the company has been deleted from the court register, so the claim is irrevocable because it is the debt that did not enter the bankruptcy. And it's not just the problems of returning unintendedly spent support from pre-accession funds. Auditors record similar things in the past 2020 and 2021. State auditors also consider that in order to prevent land parceling, which would result in deforestation, clear criteria should be laid down for the determination of the minimum and maximum area of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of agricultural production. In view of the fact that the most qualitative areas of agricultural land are given in the long-term lease and concession in previous years up to 50 years, and that the tenants receive support and resources for direct payments, the State Audit Office recommends to carry out activities to establish an effective control system in order to determine whether the state land is in a function of agricultural production or is a mere means of achieving incentives. So again, we return to the story of money support and incentives from the state budget and European funds that are being abused in a large number of cases, and the state does not have a quality control mechanism to prevent it. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not the OPGs that guarantee that the money they receive will be spent on their own production and survival of their own roof over their heads, this is not done by those who live with an animal and consider it a treasure, this is not done by those whose money is determined to survive during the time of the general crisis and uncontrolled inflation, this is not done by families whose life in the country is sacred, but unfortunately the OPGs, as I have already said, are not at the mercy of our ministry, the OPGs do not have their lobbyists up in the ministry's offices, since recently they do not have a agricultural chamber that would represent them, because it has also been taken over and those kickings by large capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u58108	Next is the presentation of the position of Honored Representative Anka Mrak Taritaš on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u58109	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday during the debate on the Law on Reconstruction of Minister Horvat, I asked about the problem of labour shortages, and I was wondering if we had anticipated a clear and difficult problem in the recovery plans after the earthquake, who would work. The minister’s answer unfortunately did not give me the impression that he had even thought about it, let alone that he or anyone from the government had something serious to predict or plan. But the situation is that in some activities, especially in the building, we are chronically lacking in labor. Even a few years ago, we who predicted such a development were considered madmen. But here we really are in this situation, missing the workforce, and the government is doing nothing, no plans, no policies or projects to solve this problem. In Croatia the most missing cleaners, chefs, waiters, truck drivers and buses, construction workers, small craftsmen and sellers. The problem is particularly expressed throughout the coast, which belongs to European regions with the greatest labour shortage. New sources of lack of climate neutrality and the European Green Plan are also on the pier. In particular, it will suffer production, construction, transport, professional and health activities, tourism, agriculture and education. We're not expected to have any labour shortages and energy. According to a survey conducted in 2019, 27% of European companies find skilled labour very difficult and 51% difficult. In the situation already, the situation was worse than the European average, 35% of companies very difficult, and 80% were quite difficult to find workforce. It is estimated that in 2030, as many as 40% of the European population will live in regions with a labour shortage and that more than 80 million workers will be missing. So, we have the data, as predicted by this data we have, we have a list of various measures that could be applied, various ways of attracting the workforce including requalification and lifelong education, reducing regional differences, facilitating the arrival of workers from third countries. In particular, focus should be placed on measures in certain sectors or interests where the problem is the biggest, including wage increases or improvements in working conditions. We could also come up with measures to stop the eviction and maybe even get the emigrants back. The HDZ speaks of it very often and happily, but between what it says and what it does is a huge difference because it does very little. We also need to make more use of what is available to us, but not used, activate the working inactive population, provide qualifications for migrants, invest more in lifelong education and retraining, prevent early retirement and better coordinate education and the labour market. We have the biggest crisis in tourism and construction, the assessment of the Croatian Association of Tourism that we lack 5,000 workers in the hotel and 10,000 workers in the catering industry. The removal of unemployment quotas outside the EU in terms of field experiences has only complicated and slowed down employment. The MAP does not have a deadline to resolve the requirements, so in practice it takes more than two months, we have a problem both in the processing industry and in IT. What we need is a serious and detailed strategy for developing the labour market that will link various sectors from education, science, technology, development strategy, industrial strategy to recovery plan and resilience and climate change adaptation strategy. If we remain only for the unsavoury answers we heard yesterday, the developed countries will also take away the few good workers we have, and we will not create new ones, nor will we have them where to find them. This means only one thing, we're definitely going to hit the rear in all European statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u58165	Following is the statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, respected representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u58166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today I decided to talk a little bit about an economic branch with which we boast a lot, and I suppose you already know it's about tourism, but tourism in the Croatian way, and some say it's 20% of GDP, some other calculations say it's 11% of GDP, but we have to wonder if what we call tourism, tourism or it's just picking up a position rent. We saw last year that it is an economic branch that is very sensitive to the shocks of various crises, and then we saw that our goods imports have also fallen, and we have to ask ourselves what we offer tourists because the fact is that they buy in foreign trade chains that they have and in their countries of origin, products that are produced somewhere further, and not in Croatia, and then we're still missing that they pay the EUR and in some ways the experience is complete, and we can change them for our tourism since we often change them and here I suggest that it be "Come to Croatia you'll feel like home literally". Our tourism really is the way we have it is picking up a positional rent for Westerns who are eager for sun and sea and when everything is summed up and taken away in fact we are just charging this space for camping or accommodation, and it is inevitable that our economy is pushing towards this rental model that carries with it many difficulties and problems. Is that really how it's supposed to be? Of course you shouldn't, and we often hear here and today, the opposition only criticises, the opposition offers nothing, but here I will set only one example where we could use our potentials, and Croatia is destined as a country for different forms of tourism, and I will remind you that Croatia is the home of football world's champion athletes who are the bearers of numerous medals in handball, water polo, basketball, skiing, athletics, gymnastics, tennis, sailing etc. Not to mention a lot of sports. And if you look at what conditions they're working on, then it's really a miracle that we ever win anywhere and one medal because we have talented athletes, persistent parents who have been supporting those kids since they were kids, top coaches, and there's more or less end up there. As far as sports infrastructure is concerned, we're pretty thin here, and to be even more tragic, let's remember that the only Olympic center we had on Bellolas burned down 10 years ago. Since then, it has been closed, no renovations and instead of us targeting Croatia as a tourist destination for top sports campers, for top sports results we continue to count tourists from 6th to 9th month and pick up that positional rent. So if only we had a little more ideas, enthusiasm and investment in sports infrastructure, in sports facilities in which not only our own but also foreign top athletes but also recreationals stay all year round we could talk about some meaningful tourist content. Instead, it's much easier to hang Zimmer frei, work for 2 to 3 months and concrete the coast wrinkled with unnecessary amount of apartments. And in the end, I'm just going to say that without sport infrastructure, without everything that our athletes need not only, but what could be put into the function of tourism will be difficult for us to continue, I don't even know why we expect the top results of our athletes, because they happen by some miracle, I don't know how, but they happen probably because we as a people are persistent, versatile and talented, and imagine that we as a state give them support that won't measure up against how much we stand out for sport but as other European countries do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u58212	Following is the position of the HSS and RF Representatives Club, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u58213	Good afternoon, everyone. Yesterday I recorded a session of the Labour Committee and I invite all MPs and MPs to take a look at that video. It is embarrassing how this institution discusses a law that will have literally material consequences for 52,000 people working for minimum wage tomorrow. The minimum wage normally meets only 25% of basic living needs. Yesterday, the chairman of the board, Davorko Vidovic, did not have enough patience, nor the strength to devote more than a few minutes to this law, and Majda Buric of HDZ, vice president of the assembly, gave him the air support. But what's problematic with this law is the following. It's a law we'll probably be discussing next week, and I'm calling on all the unions to react to that law. It's a law that instead of netting the gross minimum wage, which is good, but the only effect will be around 50 kunas maybe raise that salary, that's not enough. In addition to the existing exceptions in which an employer can pay a salary less than minimum, new exceptions are introduced, instead of the minimum wage law being a law limiting minimum wage and the minimum wage being a minimum wage to be paid to a full-time worker, we are passing a law in which we are introducing new exceptions to the rules, and that is what the State Secretarys of State gave me a cynical answer yesterday, and that is only if a collective contract is signed, then workers will work for less than minimum wages, as if we do not know that there are yellow trade unions who will be willing to sign such a contract, and that is precisely in the labour-intensed industries, the processing industry that aims to do so. The other thing that is problematic with this Law is that the law does not adopt a definition of minimum wage, and on the ground means all unions that stand by workers experience one and the same problem, which is that the employer, meaning, because there is no definition of minimum wage, pays minimum wage so that it accounts for it and supplements, means extras for overtime, for past work, for hard work, for working on a holiday, etc., that employer counts for minimum wage, which should be illegal, so there must be minimum wage and on that minimum wage the employer must pay all the allowances. So it's not like that on the ground, and this law misses to define it. The second thing he misses to define is that the minimum wage should be that full minimum wage made by the regulation in October, by 31 October, that means now, it must be that amount from which these allowances will be calculated, meaning the bonuses for working on holidays, overtime, etc., and what do employers do? They remembered it means to separate the minimum wage on the basic minimum wage and what they call the mandatory supplement or how everything not creative and then the percentages of that miserable minimum wage, means the percentages for additional work count only from that pool means minimum wages. That's the lame stuff. And the third thing that's problematic with this law is that this law doesn't make what percentages again, how much more should the worker be paid for this extra work, and some unions have really agreed not to define what percentage it is, but to collectively negotiate supposedly better percentages, but we got on the Labour Committee yesterday, a series of unions reacted to that minimum wage law even though the chairman wouldn't even read those remarks because we don't have time, right? For 16 thousand kuna, we can't devote more than half an hour to the Minimum Salary Act. We haven't even read these remarks, and one of these remarks was that the trade unions were not satisfied with it and that it was actually showing that those who represent these laws, state secretaries, among other things and lie, meant that the trade unions had sent their comments that they were involved in this consultation where they said they wanted to define the percentages for this work, meaning the minimum percentages, and then let them negotiate more by collective bargaining, but how much the minimum worker must get if he works overtime, working on holidays, how much he gets for past work, how much for difficult working conditions, etc. So we have a minimum definition, they didn't want to put it in the law, of course, and some unions served them as a ID to actually say that we would collectively negotiate, and the government said, The EU does not need to collectively negotiate, that it is too high a percentage of 70% of the collective agreement. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u58286	Following is the presentation of the position on behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Siniša Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u58287	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, yesterday, Prime Minister Beros referred to the beginning of a public debate on the amendment and addition of the Health Protection Act. Why am I disgusted? For a number of reasons. So I can talk about 129 first. Points of the Constitution which states that local self-government units are responsible for the health issue what my colleague in the background knows at the time, Sanader Mayor. And on the other hand, because it's happening I have no idea how to use it at all, I can't say nationalization but it's happening.../incomprehensible/... regional property. Let's start with a simple institution called the Public Health Department. So whoever is in Croatia is under the management of the units of the regional administration, i.e. under county management and who besides Lika-Senjski I think you always do positive business. And now what does Minister Berosh want to do? So he actually wants to take them out of the area and put them under state control. So not only does it destroy what's good since the time of Andrija Printar, but watch out for this at the time of the pandemic means where your public health institutions are actually the first to say so on the defender of the fight against Covid he wants to further create one to so say chaos in the system. Then let's step up, then go to county hospitals for which he wants to do the same. And I'm going to say that the SDP government is a temporary county hospital, but with the permission of the founders, it put them on state governance, it rescheduled them, and it brought them back. So here in this proposal there is no such thing. And now what's the problem? What's the problem? The problem is that whatever the county has been in the last 15 years depends minimally on its fiscal strength of 5 to 10 million per year invested in equipment, in buying business spaces, in improving standards. That these county hospitals have, some even 4-5 acres of land so that they manage those or counties as their founder. Then there's the ER, so the same story, again your county, units, municipalities and cities co-finance different teams that open up, and now with one move of feathers, it wants to be centralized. And my question is why? So, the biggest losers in the system are the state hospitals from Rebra to Vinogradska, from KBCs, so first you need to solve your problem. And the key problem for you is HZZO, which, of course, is the budget of the Republic of Croatia, so it has to be positive, it has to be positive, and then what it does, so they just don't pay hospitals and the health system doesn't pay for real service, they don't pay for real service. And what's going on? Periodically, every year, two, three come the finance minister and says, "Now we're going to resuscitate health care with two or three billion kunas." Resuscitate HZZO, resuscitate yourself first, and then you can move on to something that works well and then we can talk about whether special hospitals that also by the way this bill passes into state ownership can be regional, can be state, state. But it's a matter of discussion, not a one-time decree. So, with the one-time decree of Minister Beros, what he wants, in fact, all the system that still works very well and which is in line with the Constitution of the obligation of the regional administration, means he's taking care of the health of primary health care that you have for and emergency care and that's for you and the public health care office and homes of health, the next question is why you won't take home health care with you is the same as the public health office. If he might have made a proposal let's streamline, so let's talk about maybe having a home of health brought together with the public health care office, I can still process it like that, but this is a terrible and disaster, because it's not going to change anything. Unfortunately, I was even personally in the hospital three or four weeks ago and now one medicine I won't mention it cost him five kunas, an antibiotic one, but we had a bit of a joke with our colleagues there, that same drug cost 35 kunas while I was being treated. You know why? Because centralised public procurement did not implement public procurement and, of course, monopolies, and health system monopolies rule Croatian health, not the government of Minister Beros simply raised the price of the drug. And what's going on? It's just growing debt. So think first about how you're going to reform the state system, think about it in a way that we can take steps, let's see what doesn't work in the health system. HZZO doesn't work for you, you don't have a real price to be paid to hospitals, health institutions, it doesn't work, but maybe something's hiding in HDZ's way. When I hear special hospitals, I go back to the movie ten years ago, privatization, and maybe the lab comes to privatize them instead of the Department of Public Health, the private labs will come.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u58359	The position of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Zeljko Pavić, follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u58360	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Today I will tell you a story that begins in 2014 that is not finished and that is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we, together with it, are losing hundreds of millions of kunas a year. In fact, it is a strategic project of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish a centre of shared services that establishes a central management of the consolidation of state information infrastructure, data, requirements, operations and horizontal processes of public administration in order to improve transparency, accountability and efficiency of public administration. The basic legal framework for the implementation of the project was established by the State Information Infrastructure Act of 2014 and the Regulation on organisational and technical standards for the integration of state information infrastructure from 2017. services to public sector bodies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The project target groups are public services, state administration bodies and other state bodies. I cited all of this in order to make it clear that the Republic of Croatia decided to manage its national information infrastructure centrally as early as 2014 to save significant IT and financial resources. More than one billion kuna would be saved annually at the purchase of various hardware and software for state bodies, on the purchase of licences and on making unnecessary applications already offered or planned to be implemented through the CDU. In 2018, our Ministry of Administration, in cooperation with the partner on the project APIS IT and the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society, finally made significant efforts and through the extensive process of proving its preconditions for the negotiation of projects received agreement... and the CDU is worth 360 million kuna agreed in May 2019, and at the end of 2019 it was reduced to probationary work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The largest IT public procurement in the Republic of Croatia has been conducted, for 13 groups of public procurement cases, 11 of which have been completed to date, and 2 are still under way because the state cannot agree what and how. All the standards necessary for the CDU to work have been adopted in order to finally comply with the law of 2014 and the 2017 Regulation. The Commission for Public Procurement finished the job in 2019. Since then, the guarantee has been extended several times, a second commission has been established and the case is now being balled between DCOM and the state. The reason allegedly is not in the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Administration and later of the Central Office, the state office provides financial resources for the implementation of the project phase and the strategic project of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm interested in who's sabotaging who? HDZ's Public Administration, HDZ's Ministry, HDZ's Government. There's something wrong with that. The APIS-IT, which, on behalf of and for the account of the ministry before, and now in the Central State Office, performs the work and keeps its professional and human capacities in the system to swim all together and try to achieve the goal of entering 300 institutions by 2023, but it has not yet come close to that goal. For now, only 200 institutions have partially entered such a system. So I'm asking questions if enough public service, the authorities of the state administration and the other state authorities are trying to give their pain to a common state story, who controls them? What's the CDU Steering Board doing? Have we made the necessary decisions for the health and sustainable development of the CDU in the future? Have you been informed about this topic adequately and timely the National Council for State and Information Infrastructure, chaired by the Prime Minister? Do the heads of state respect the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act and the principles of sound governance of state money, the money of all of us? These are key issues with the question whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia sees the elements of corruption here and what it is doing to prevent corruption and the culprits Punished? [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65863	I thank the cameramen, thank the press. Good morning, welcome to MPs and MPs. First item today: - Proposed anti-corruption strategy for the period from 2021 to 2030. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, in relation to Art. 11. The Law on the Strategic Planning and Development Management System of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. Before I give my word to the promoter, we have a request for a break. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65864	Dear President, Mr. Jandrokovic, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club because we have a lot of difficulties, so we'd like further consultations. In one way, the argument of ad absurdum is my situation that here today we will discuss the strategy of corruption, and it is proposed by those who have experience, so with corruption. I'm in the process, and everything in me is saying that those who have experience with corruption shouldn't propose a corruption strategy, and on the other hand, experiencedly, maybe it's not bad because when an experienced thing goes by, then it knows exactly where certain items are and which you should never repeat again. On the other hand, I would also like to say that no strategy will solve the problem of corruption. And I also want to be clear, it's not a corrupt state, so let me put it this way, it's not a party that's corrupt, it's corrupt, every citizen who succumbs to the attack on corruption is corrupt. It's corrupt anyone who allows another person to manage their own interests beyond the interests of individuals. And that's why he would suggest to the government so here we all are, but to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the status of proposing be taken away and that we establish new processes by Christmas break and be assigned to one of the parliamentary working bodies, hence the anti-corruption strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65865	The apartment will be approved. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65866	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, we are looking for a break for further consultations on this point. And what we must first remind ourselves is that this point was to be discussed last week, and then on the day that the verdict was announced for corruption, and it was the very ruling party that you decided to remove it. Whether it's a coincidence or not, I don't leave anyone to judge it alone, but it's a fact. The week HDZ was convicted of corruption, you refused to discuss corruption in HS. But let's get back to this strategy. The best line related to this strategy is the government's or HDZ's attitude towards the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest. We're talking about fighting corruption as a society, we're talking about this being our goal, we're talking about how we want the perception of corruption, imagine, we're going to cut to 80% in the 10th year, that only 80% of the citizens think that the state is corrupt, I'm here on purpose ironic. And when we talk about concrete measures not to take measures that should prevent corruption but those tools that have proved effective, which is the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, we end the most important power. Instead of euthanizing the Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest, as you are proposing, you should grant them greater powers in order to become a real dam and a real obstacle to the spread of corruption in our society. But, esteemed colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, you don't want that. Corruption suits you, and so these strategies in this form are just a dead letter on paper because what happens In practice it shows that fighting corruption is for you [[Thank you. Thank you, Comrade Grbin.]] Just a word and nothing more. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65867	The apartment is approved. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65868	I thank the president. On behalf of the Party Club Center and GLAS, I request a 10-minute break for additional consultations. There is no news of Croatia sinking under the burden of corruption. Research by Tad Juric, a professor at the Catholic University, shows that corruption is the main reason for the eviction of our inhabitants. Therefore, this document that we call a strategy should contain a path and direction in which Croatia should actually go, where it should go. This document doesn't bring it up. If we are talking about 5 topics, 5 areas dedicated to this government, by the measures proposed by the Strategy itself, each individual negatives everything that is said to be achieved. You say, strengthening institutions, so we see what you've done with the institutions. You've literally made and spent sabotage, from the Committee and beyond. You say that you will strengthen the transparency of the work of the public authority, you keep refusing to conduct the transparency of the budget in such a way as to see the display of all individual payments and payments. Third, you say that you will strengthen the system of integrity and the management of conflict of interest, and then you are the most significant body, that was the Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest incapacitated and deprived him of his authority to deal with these issues and these areas. Then, you said that you would strengthen the mechanisms in the area of the public procurement system, and then we came to this one minister, imagine, one minister prescribes anti-corruption mechanisms in the public procurement system in the recovery process after the earthquake. And finally, you said that the objective of this Strategy is to raise awareness of the harmfulness of corruption and the importance of reporting corrupt behaviour, and then we are in a position to bring such a strategy to counter corruption by a powerful convicted political party.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65869	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. We are going to the 4th debate, or the 4th request for a break, colleague Peović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65870	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front for 10 minutes in order to re-examine this Law and pay attention to something that we think is not so often mentioned in this debate, and we will ask the question of Minister Malenica how she thinks, quote, from this, the proposal of the Strategy to improve the economic well-being and prosperity of all citizens of these anti-corruption policies, if we consider that this strategy is a more or less prescribed 5-year-old strategy, which, according to many in Croatia, means no goal, and we will also warn that even though the Albanian rhetoric on anti-corruption policies can politically sound effective, that the perception of corruption is what bothers people in Croatia, largely linked to this economic lagging, which in no way you think and do not intend to change. That HDZ has been accused as a corrupt party may also cast doubt on such a type of discourse that it is a fully corrupt judiciary, but that is precisely what you do not intend to do, regardless of the importance of implementing anti-corruption policies, it is important to stop the continuity of the race towards the bottom which HDZ leads in a way that introduces only competitiveness in relation to foreign countries by reducing labour prices. And I'll also tell you that a lot of people ignore it, but it's the court workers who are neatly losing legal acts, losing their judgments where they're really being treated like slaves. What I would like to warn you in this debate and what I will try to point out is that economic prosperity will certainly not be achieved by such a strategic plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65871	Stanka will also be approved by colleagues Vucilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65872	Thank you, well-respected President, I am looking for a party on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club so that once again, we do not agree, do not consider but simply point out that we had a strategy before this strategy and now we will have a strategy again. Croatia has strategies, Croatia has regulatory mechanisms, institutions, agencies, there are many people working, and then it happens to us that our citizens have been deceived, damaged by leasing houses, in amounts that are measured by hundreds of millions of kunas because the HANFA has not responded in time and a good part of it has gone out of date and so has this strategy, especially since there are good parts of expressions, will improve, all of which will be kind of general nature without concrete activities, without concrete action plans, without concrete times when something will be implemented, just a dead letter on paper. Unfortunately, 97% of citizens believe corruption is widespread, and what concerns me personally is that 57% of entrepreneurs claim that corruption is a huge problem in their business. How are we going to move from that start of the EU when our entrepreneurs and that over half of our entrepreneurs are disabled in their work precisely because of corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65873	Stanka will be approved, Comrade Habiban, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65874	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I request a 10-minute break to consult again on this document that is ahead of us. Of course, it is a general document in principle, given that it is a strategy, and that you have read the document itself, it would be clear that concrete measures will be prescribed by the action plans adopted in 3 g. What I want to stress since I heard what my colleagues are saying in front of their clubs, today we can decide here at the beginning whether we will discuss the strategy, so on its content, whether we will hear some constructive proposals from the opposition in which way if they think the same should be improved now is an opportunity or how they set out to discuss this I would say one, one demagogue level and cheap pulsism. So, it's up to you to decide, HDZ is ready for both of us with that so that we'd prefer to discuss the document itself, the strategy, what's on the agenda. I will use this short time just to point out that the issue of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and Commission has been raised here, in particular, by colleague Oreshkovic. 5th rounded or disabled work of the commission. That's not true, it's just a question of application. 5., and you, as former chairman of the commission, had a problem with simply not being able to apply this article, and then both the high administrative court and the constitutional court told you that it was wrong, the legal understanding and legal practice were taken, and according to this law which is now in the e-consultation, and this is what a colleague Grbin should know by 5.11. obviously did not read it, so he would know what it is and what these are new powers the commission is getting. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition are on you in which direction this debate will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65875	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65876	Thank you, Mr. President. It's an injury. 238. Rules of Procedure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we are talking about a single body that is crucial in the fight against corruption, which is the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, then this is a very specific proposal. Your opposition to it is demagogy and don't put it on others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65877	My colleague, you know very well that you have violated the Rules of Procedure and you are being warned. Is anyone else picking up? Also a violation of the Rules of Procedure, fellow Oreshkovic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65878	I thank the president. Injury. 238, insulting the MPs. However, here is a much bigger problem that you deceive citizens and deceive the public. Comrade, if you want to talk about the content of this document itself, it is full of conflicts of interest, ethics and integrity. There's an ethical commission for state lawyers, there's an ethical committee for judges, there's an ethical code for civil servants, so the whole state and public system Ethics and integrity should be respected [[Agreement: Thank you colleagues Oreshković]] Except the politicians are in the way of Andrej Plenkovic. [[Intruder: Done, your time is up]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65879	My colleague Oreshkovic, how are you acting? First you break the Rules of Procedure, then thank you in advance for your warning, and then I'll give you a warning. Do we have anyone else who wants to take this? Then we're taking a break until 10:00. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.00 HOURS]] I would like to ask the Honorable Minister of Justice and the Management of Ivan Malenica to present a proposal for a strategy to prevent corruption for the period from 2021 to 2030.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65881	The Honorable President of HS, respected MPs, respected MPs. Corruption as a negative social phenomenon has a strong impact on the rule of law, trust in institutions, democratic and political culture and society as a whole. It is irrefutable that corruption has a negative impact on the economic well-being and prosperity of all citizens. In the fight against corruption, it is important to create a strategic framework, strengthen institutions, and work on the personal integrity of each individual. The fight includes not only public authorities' authorities, but society as a whole, the business community, the civil sector and the international community. Recognition and prevention and the fight against corruption are conditioned by the awareness of social values and unacceptable behaviour in society in order to preserve public interest. In order to be effective in this fight, it is necessary to connect the action of all stakeholders and work continuously on preventive mechanisms. The new Corruption Prevention Strategy aims to strengthen existing anti-corruption mechanisms and create new systemic solutions to raise awareness at all levels of corruption harmfulness. The strategy that lies ahead of you insists on strong affirmation of citizens, civil society and the media as unforgiving partners of institutions in the fight against corruption. Such an outside view helps public authorities to work more responsibly, more transparently and in an appropriate way to recognise corrupt risks. When drawing up the Strategy, the current situation has been analysed, taking into account in particular the results achieved by the implementation of the previous Strategy, identified areas of corruption risks in relevant documents of international bodies, as well as research on the perception of corruption. In addition, the Ministry of Justice and Administration conducted a survey of citizens through social networks, social networks, through the Ministry’s website, with the aim of defining the starting points of the Strategy itself. On the basis of this, the new strategic approach covers 5 basic specific objectives: strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework for the fight against corruption, strengthening transparency and openness of the work of the public authorities, strengthening the integrity system and managing conflicts of interest, strengthening anti-corruption potentials in the public procurement system, raising awareness of corruption damage and the necessity of reporting irregularities and strengthening transparency. Each of these 5 areas represents the fundamental pillars of the prevention of corruption that this Strategy is generally focused on. Within these areas, 95 anti-corruption measures are envisaged in the field of public administration, political system, justice, economy, state property management, public finances, agriculture, health, science, culture, education, sport, infrastructure, environmental protection, energy, transport and infrastructure. The Anti-corruption Strategy as a roof document will be accompanied by a three-year action plan. The first for the period 2022-2024, the second for the period 2025-2027 and the third for the period 2028-2030 as one of the specific objectives highlights the strengthening of the system of integrity and the management of conflicts of interest at local, regional and central level. In addition to the regulatory arrangement of the area of conflict of interest, several additional measures are envisaged at local level. For example, more transparent appointments in companies, public institutions owned by units of local and regional self-government will then be better regulated to appoint representatives of units in public institutions or companies established by units of local self-government and the aim of these measures will be to determine the arrangements and conditions for the appointment of those representatives. The legislative framework for the selection or appointment of members of companies, public institutions and other legal bases establishing units of local and regional self-government will be improved and mechanisms for the involvement of citizens at local level will be strengthened. The law will stipulate that all units of local and regional self-government are obliged to adopt an Ethics Code for Officials, as well as local officials. Units will be encouraged on the public publication of the Ethics Code, the publication of information on the possibility of filing complaints, the time limit for deciding on the complaint and the contact of the person in charge of complaints, and which would allow citizens to invest their complaints by digital means or by means of an open phone. Clear guidelines will be drawn up for the development of ethical codes to ensure the equality of all units. It will also introduce an obligation to report business relations between members of the representative bodies, and the list will be made public. On the other hand, an information system for managing the ethical infrastructure of civil servants will be introduced in such a way as to better collect and analyse data and standardise the work of Ethics Commissioners. With a view to the transparency of work, effective management of the risks of corruption and a positive impact on the quality of the regulations and decisions taken by the legislative and executive authorities, the Strategy clearly identifies the need for regulation of lobbying activities. We will adopt a new law on lobbying that will be regulated as a legal and legitimate profession according to the highest ethical standards. In addition, the system of protection of the applicant for irregularities or whistles will be strengthened. Educational activities will continue and will be carried out in order to strengthen the judicial protection of whistles. The continued education of confidential persons, union commissioners and officials on how to report irregularities will also be carried out. The procedure to report irregularities to the Ombudsman will be digitised and additional steps will be made to raise awareness of whistle rights. The strategy provides for a number of measures, which contribute to the resilience of the judicial system to corrupt risks. Among other things, strengthening the communication capacity of judicial officials and public relations officers. Then measures to strengthen the integrity of judicial officials, improve capacity and the regulatory framework of DSV and DOV and improve the regulatory framework for the processing of corruption offences with a view to speeding up criminal proceedings. In addition, amendments to the bankruptcy law will prescribe clearer criteria for entering the profession, promoting and educating the bankruptcy managers, with the possibility of introducing bankruptcy offices. A transparent and centralised appointment of judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters is being introduced. The criteria and professional qualifications for individual areas will be set out. Since 24 courts now decide to appoint, it creates uneven and unequal practice. By adopting amendments to the Law on Courts, court experts, appraisers and interpreters, the Ministry of Justice and Administration will appoint. The standards of their improvement, progress, and the possibility of submissions to their work will be defined. One of the particularly prominent areas in the Strategy is strengthening the anti-corruption potential in the public procurement system for the sake of present competitive financial interests, which makes up one of the most critical economic activities in view of corruption risks. During the upcoming strategic period, it is planned to strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework in the area of public procurement, improve efficiency and create a comprehensive strategic approach to preventing and reducing corruption risks in the area of public procurement. Further steps will also be made and measures will be put in place to combat the corrupt risk of healthcare, especially with regard to raising awareness among citizens about the harmfulness of the doctor’s donation. For example, more transparency will show the possibility of conflicts of interest in medical staff working at the same time in public and private health. Given the recognised high percentages of negative perception of citizens in the area of corruption, the Strategy puts particular emphasis on raising awareness of corruption, the action of existing anti-corruption mechanisms, the need to report corruption and strengthen the role of citizens in synergy anti-corruption activities. Dear MPs and MPs, the phenomenon of corruption can be seen with several aspects due to various forms of corruption, it can be seen as a problem that only judicial authorities are dealing with. Corruption includes a significantly broader spectrum of unacceptable behaviours than those prescribed by the legislator as criminal offences. When there is a criminal procedure for corruption, this means that all preventive efforts have failed, however, the actions of the authorities in charge of repression in such situations must be a strong message that corruption is not being paid. The objectives and measures proposed by the strategy, we believe, meet the key challenges of fighting corruption. Strengthening the regulatory and institutional framework, implementing preventive mechanisms and raising citizens' awareness that corrupt risks should be identified and reported. We can take steps to fight corruption. It is therefore necessary to include the whole society and the commitment of all bodies and zero levels of tolerance to corruption. I believe that in today's constructive debate, we will detect key corruption risks and define preventive measures to make the Republic of Croatia more effective in fighting corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65882	I thank the minister and we'll go with the replicas now. First up, Comrade Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65883	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament, Your Honor. We have recently witnessed a corruption affair in Kutina about the purchase of city councilors by the mayor himself who, following the discovery of the affair through audio recording, has been released from HDZ. Over the vice-president of the city council, USKOK is conducting tests for the employment of a son in Eco Moslavina in exchange for a budget hand. The president of the city council has also been involved and exposed and resigns as city council president but remains in place even with a new mandate in the supervisory board of a city firm. But that's not all, and that's not the end. The Director of Eco Moslavina, who reported to USKOK in July the crimes of trafficking of all those persons and with the help of its courage, has been exposed to the entire corrupt chain in Kutina. I ask the question of what is the message to people who report corruption and oppose illegal acts? Is this your fight against corruption that you're so boasting about and what you're going to do? concretely to be taken into account in this matter of resolution [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] corruption in your ranks. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65884	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65885	Thank you, Your Honor, when you listed specific cases I thought you would continue with both Čakovec and Novi Gradishka and other places. In a particular situation, therefore, the competent authorities take certain activities so that in this case I would not enter into the qualification of conduct and behaviour and neither the head of the units of local self-government, therefore there is a Office for the control of corruption and organised crime, there is a State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, there are courts that will act if they are determined that certain criminal offences exist. So these are independent and independent institutions, to which the ministry and government provide full support both in this human and material sense, and this is certainly seen by the budget that is growing from year to year by year by State Attorney's Office and USKOK. So here, I would let them carry out all the necessary actions and establish certain conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65886	Thank you. Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65887	Dear Ministers, the Honorable President and State Secretary, corruption in a legal sense is a criminal offence of the abuse of trust and of the duty exercised in the administration of the judiciary, the economy and so on. Corruption is not a form, it is a weakness of an individual when he falls under the influence of lobbys or individuals who want to push their own interests. That these phenomena have been throughout history, it is clear to us in all systems and that these problems were also aware of, say, the Dubrovians, what the message from the Prince's court shows, the abundance of the privatorum, the public girls, leave the private work public, so we will not eliminate corruption, and no one will, but we should try to control it. Whether or not you mention mechanisms I can control corruption? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65888	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65889	Thank you very much, Your Honor, so first of all, the strategy as one strategic principled document is heading towards primarily the prevention of corruption. So when corruption comes to the courts, in front of the judicial authorities, it means that, as a society, we have failed, that the prevention system has failed. And for this reason, this strategy is primarily based on prevention of non-measures and activities that will be undertaken through action plans that will prevent corruption. I think it is extremely important and that it is actually an emphasis on prevention because I think that the legislative framework in the part of corruption is good and it will be improved by the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act to further speed up these procedures. However, we believe that prevention is an area where we can act more, in which we can make a greater step, and in this sense this strategy is also perceived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65890	Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65891	Thank you very much. The respected minister's document begins with a vision that says, the achievement of modern democratic society, the rule of law and strong institutions that enjoy citizens' trust as a cornerstone of the well-being of the entire society. I sign every word. But this should be achieved by the government of Andrej Plenkovic, who in the last term marked it 33 so-called. I agree that corruption should have a name and a last name, but isn't it a little too many of those names and last names in the government that should achieve this vision that you state at the beginning of this strategic document? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65892	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65893	Thank you, well-respected MPs, so the government of Andrej Plenkovic has consciously opted to fight corruption. So there's no invisible hand that controls courts, which manages USKOK, the state's attorney's office and other bodies. The government gives full support to the work of these bodies, so the strategy or corruption each has a name and name regardless of the party's membership, the judicial authorities are working independently and in fact what I said before, so the criminal proceedings will be further strengthened and the judicial authorities will be further strengthened to be capacitated so that they can cope with these challenges. We are also aware of the perceptions of corruption, as well as the presence of corruption in our society, and therefore we bring this strategic document. That is why we are predicting 95 measures, which is why we are predicting 3 action plans aimed at preventing corruption, as well as amendments to the legislative framework to further accelerate court proceedings. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65894	Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65895	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister, the Secretary of State has already said that the Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption for this period in '21-'30. In fact, one principled, general document. It attributes actually the goals that the government wants to achieve in the fight against corruption, the way they want to do it. But its implementation, its implementation is prescribed by action plans, and now you're actually in response to the replica mentioning it, so the period of '22, '24, '25, '27. And '28. '30. So a concrete question, given that we have before us this first action plan for the period '22-'24. in which phase it is, or whether the Ministry of Justice and the Administration has begun to produce it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65896	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65897	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, as you've mentioned yourself, so we have 95 measures, we have 3 action plans. So the first action plan has already begun to be prepared, given that in 2022 it is approaching us. Therefore, it will contain a series of measures or activities under each of these measures which include, certainly, an amendment and a series of laws, primarily the Law on Courts and the Law on State Attorneys, the Law on Lobbying, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, so in the first Action Plan, we have a series of activities that are going towards strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework for the fight against corruption, but there would certainly mention one point, and it is related to the previous Strategy and the action plans resulting from this Strategy, so they are largely carried out, so all the activities that have been carried out in these action plans have been carried out, i.e. a large percentage, so I believe that, in the coming period with the following action plans, we will also achieve a high percentage of the implementation of these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65898	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65899	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, in Strategy 2015-2020, when you enter the search engine term health care, it is found twice. Now you've made progress, now you can find yourself seven times, including public consultation. Tell me, these measures set out in the previous Strategy did not have a satisfactory effect. In a recent online survey, unfortunately the citizens of healthcare, so the sector from which I come, puts it first. We must not generalise, of course, that not all health employees are corrupt and corrupt. To what do you guarantee that these current action plans and measures will have their effect in this said Strategy? It has already begun in the prevention and education of citizens and healthcare professionals, so that is, we agree that it is task number one and it has already come to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65900	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65901	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we are based on a survey conducted by the Ministry of Justice and Administration to detect health as one of the areas where the great corruption risk threatens and this is what we cited in this Strategy. Of course, with these 95 measures, 95 measures, so action plans are going. So 3 action plans to develop these measures and I believe that in these action plans, therefore taking into account the results of this survey where healthcare is detected as an area with the highest corruption risk in the Republic of Croatia, there will be increased activities to be carried out in the field of health, primarily in this part of the prevention of corruption, and here I mean the education of staff, i.e. workers in the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65902	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65903	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Jandrokovic, Mr. Minister. So I have to say that I'm a little shocked, consterned with a statement from my colleague, Dr. When Kirina said that corruption can't be stopped, we should try to control it. I'm a athlete, I play basketball, it's like going to fight some sports enemy, a sports enemy, who you know is dangerous, but you say, well, we'll lose, but if it's not more than 20 different, it's not bad. So, please comment, here, my heart's beating, I'm terrified. And secondly, Minister, let the Croatian public hear you, I want to hear you. So I personally believe that you're an honest man, I really believe, here and now I'm interested in your attitude. Whether this Strategy will stop corruption in Croatia, tell the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65904	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65905	Thank you very much, Your Honor, and thank you very much for your compliment. As for the gentleman, or respected representative Kirin, I believe that he also thought that the Strategy should have gone in the direction of preventing and preventing corruption, so corruption is something that is very difficult to eradicate, but these two parts, the preventive and repressive parts must be such that they certainly have a significant impact on the reduction of corruption. As far as this second part is concerned, yes, certainly with this strategic document, but not only with it, but with a series of activities and laws and norms that the Government or the Ministry of Administration and the Justice are taking are going in this direction to reduce to the least possible extent the occurrence of corruption, that we have this preventive part, but also that the repressive is so that it too, with efficiency, but also sanctions, prevents and reduce the occurrence of corruption. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65906	My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65907	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. When citizens are asked, where they are most often forced to participate in corruption, they generally, or at a percentage of 33.5% say they are in health care. Tell us specifically, what you plan to do since it is evident that this kind of corruption exists and, of course, casts a shadow on all those conscientious and professional healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65908	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65909	Thank you very much. So what we've pointed out, health care is an area where there's a huge corruption risk, and we've detected it in a survey that the Ministry has conducted. Therefore, certain activities, particularly directed towards the citizens themselves, are envisaged for potential patients in terms of raising harm to the appearance of the doctor, and a significant part of the activities will also be directed towards the education of the healthcare professionals themselves, primarily to explain to them what is a conflict of interest when they work at the same time in both public and private health. So these are two areas where we will focus through this Strategy, i.e. through action plans that we will bring to the foundations of the Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65910	Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65911	Thank you. Dear Ministers, therefore, show that additional revenues from corruption activities are being collected by a smaller social group that is disproportionately rich, so it takes advantage, its position, privatising public aspects of social activities, so that it has an impact on the work of institutions. So that group that should actually fight such corrupt phenomena in society, while those poorer layers of the population, of course, because of the circumstances in which they live, but also because of lack of influence, they cannot participate in such actions. Do you think that is precisely why the fight against corruption is so weak and slow in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65912	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65913	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, although this strategic document is proposed by the Ministry of Justice and Administration, which has largely participated in the development of this document together with a number of other experts, an effective fight against corruption is possible only in cooperation with all stakeholders of this society. First of all, citizens and media and a number of other independent institutions formed for this reason are fighting corruption, or preventing corruption. And I believe that with the synergy and work of all these bodies, but also the citizens themselves can make a certain step and a certain change in, and in the perception of the very appearance of corruption in our society but also in certain activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65914	Comrade Bosnjakovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65915	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, we all know that the process of making amendments to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is in progress. I would just like to remind here that the adoption of this Law on Conflict of Interest was an extremely important criterion, meeting the criteria for Croatia's entry into EU membership, and also in some way implementing the establishment of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest. It is very important because it is the impression that the amendments to the law want to euthanize as the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest has been said here today and that they want to reduce its powers. It is very important not to be so but to have it more equipped and to be its more significant role than it has been so far because the most significant fact that the reduction of power was by the Constitutional Court's decision from 2012 when it was 5 powers, 5 articles were abolished on the SDP proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65916	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65917	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, you made a good point, so in 2012, when the Constitutional Court euthanized the commission, I believe that and, that this will be emphasized during today's debate, but also when there is a debate on the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Therefore, the new law currently in public consultation represents an additional step in preventing conflicts of interest. First of all, the commission is strengthened by a series of mechanisms. There is above all the law itself going in the direction of judicial practice and the Constitutional Court and the High Court of Justice, but also administrative courts that clearly detected what the commission had done in the previous period. So I wouldn't go further into the analysis of the new law or the bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest, but to return to yours, therefore the SDP in 2012 encouraged the Constitutional Court to further Deny certain powers and powers of the Commission. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65918	Thank you very much, Minister. Now it's time for my colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65919	A few days ago, high court judge Ivan Turudic returned the indictment against Ivica Todorovic for re-determining the first-degree court. It is known that Turudic mainly judges the way the governing structure suits him, and that the trial of Todorovic is a play since the government and the judiciary are afraid of the Todoric. Is it possible that Todorovic has some sort of material against the powers of politics and justice? We don't know that. Judge Turudic, however, was driven by the police for speeding and that in a car worth more than a million kunas, and the man has spent his entire life on a judicial salary. Mr. Minister, will you request a security check for Judge Turudic in order to determine the legality of his property? This is usually the case in Bavaria, for example, so it is completely legal and in accordance with European standards because, as we know, there is no law allowing corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65920	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65921	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, it is currently in the final stage of preparing to amend the Law on Courts and the Law on State Attorneyy. So, the bill's proposals passed public consultation and I believe you saw that in the amendments to these two laws were introduced and security checks for judicial officials. Therefore, periodic security checks for all judges are introduced through the amendment of the Law on Courts and the Law on State Attorneys. So far, security checks have only been passed by judges of the county courts and judges departments when they were admitted to the first degree. So, the amendments to the Courts Act so security checks will check, all judges will pass every 5 years. If the report of the Security Intelligence Agency determines the existence of certain risks to independence and independence in the conduct of a judge or another judicial officer, then the State Judicial Council may initiate a strict procedure and may vehemently sanction the judicial officer himself. So through the changes to those two laws We're introducing this anti-corruption mechanism. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65922	Thank you, Minister. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65923	Thank you very much. Article 238, this is dissuasion of MPs. I specifically asked you if you would now carry out the security check on that judge Turudić and you have already established reasons for which I have also cited. You have avoided answering that question in front of the entire Croatian public, but here I am warning you that it is a demeaning of MPs and that you may have responded in this way that you will not do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65924	It's not disdaining the MPs, it was the minister's answer to your question and you know for yourself that this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure by giving you a warning. Let's move on, let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65925	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, reading this strategy and 5 basic specific objectives, is not clear to me through which measure or activity the Government will solve through this strategy one of the biggest robberies that occurred in the Republic of Croatia since its independence, and it then committed in the signing of the SKH SDP. Namely, '90s. the year when the Croatian State of the Social Democratic Party was created, i.e. the legal successor of the Union of Communists enlisted on state property in order in towns and municipalities of Makarska, Omis, Novi Marof, Novska, numerous cities and municipalities. In this way damaged state property, the state budget for not being able to dispose of the property. So they made it impossible for legal owners and users of units of local, regional self-government to use this space, to use this space of energy restoration, and to damage the most, therefore, state-run. Assets for assets. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65926	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65927	Thank you very much, Your Honor, this is certainly a big problem, but here is the strategy and through the measures that we have outlined in this strategy is certainly part of the management of state property. I believe that there will also be certain activities in that part that will, in fact, be further protected by state, state property. However, here is to avoid being irresponsible to counterpart Vidovic Kristo, who is not here in the assembly, so the minister of justice cannot initiate the security clearance procedure, only the president and the president of the immediate senior court can do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65928	My colleague Ankica Zmaic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65929	Thank you. Respected ministers, the 2030 Strategy for Preventing Corruption, one of the priorities for strengthening anti-corruption mechanisms at local, regional level in terms of management of commercial societies owned by municipalities, cities and counties, then strengthening fiscal transparency and transparency of spending on local level, adopting codes of conduct for officials, officials and members of representative bodies, as well as greater involvement of citizens in the adoption of legal acts at regional and local level. As I am a member of the Council for the Prevention of Corruption as a representative of the Croatian Community, I am familiar with the segments of the strategy and the measures for the implementation of the strategy that I support. Your ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have already joined the resolution and introduction of some measures to implement this 10-year strategy, so please explain to us what measures are for local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65930	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65931	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So you've detected well that there is a large part of the measures relating to local, regional and regional self-government. This is because we have also found in surveys of the Ministry of Justice and Administration but also in a number of other documents that there is a major corruption risk in the area or area of local self-government. And in that part, we've been focusing on a series of activities, a series of measures that we're going to take. Not only through the strategy of this measure and action plans, but also through the National Resistance and Recovery Plan. It would highlight only one measure stemming from the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, which will now be followed by a change in the Budget Law, which is the introduction of transparency and openness into local budgets. This has been overlooked and specified, certain financial resources to create a necessary platform for units of local self-government to publish all data and to be available to citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65932	Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65933	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, one of the 5 specific objectives in this strategy is to raise public awareness of corruption, the duty to report irregularities and strengthen transparency. The objective also provides for raising awareness of civil society and strengthening civil society as a whole. Many civil society associations today are partners with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and your ministry. You have experience with them and you know what needs to be done. Can you briefly say how you planned to strengthen civil society? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65934	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65935	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, you've well detected that we have an important law that's listed here in this strategy, it's the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, it's also in the final phase and over 10 days and it should be in the cabinet session. There we have certainly further strengthened certain mechanisms already introduced in 2019 among the first EU countries to protect so-called. We have also further foreseen in this law the role of civil society organisations, which should actually, whose role is to assist and report irregularities and in the light of some free legal assistance to them, to present them with the procedure and to facilitate their application of irregularities, to provide them with support in that part. So there will certainly be room not only through the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity but in a number of other measures for civil society organisations to be involved because it is very important to us that, with media and citizens, either individually, whether through civil society organisations be involved. [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65936	Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65937	Dear Ministers, today the party convicted of corruption is proposing a anti-corruption strategy. And it doesn't make sense that I'm still saying anything. Why? Because instead of reaching the ashes, I am today from HDZ MPs today in the assembly hearing the relativization of corruption. I can't.../incomprehensible/... is impossible to eradicate, it's a matter of individuals, we should try to fight. That's why what's going on in the rapsodium assembly today is irrelevant. Usually a dead letter on paper. Do you think I'm wrong? If you care then you will make the political actors who robbed, corrupt Croatia, and today they are here with us in the assembly leaving politics. Get out of here. Do you care? Then make the judiciary more effective, not that people settle in 3 months who owe for electricity, and for decades the real key disputes that are to solve the fight against corruption are not resolved. and clientelism and crime. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65938	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65939	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I expected you to welcome these measures concerning local self-government. First of all, the part relating to a more transparent designation in companies and public institutions owned by local self-government units. There is an extra step and transparency is introduced. Considering that you are sanctioned by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests because of such appointment to the Supervisory Board or the administration of a company while you were Mayor Metkovic, I believe you will welcome this activity and this measure taken and which is stated in the strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65940	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65941	Risking the reminder of respected ministers, I welcome absolutely every fight against corruption among those who are really fighting corruption. The fact that you're making enormous efforts to defile my name in any way is your legitimate way of fighting me. The fact is that all these reports have fallen into your water, and the same public needs to know, and yours is not the Supreme Court has condemned you to lead, organise corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65942	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65943	So, respected chairman of the Croatian Parliament, it is again proven that HDZ has been convicted, the basic competence says to read the verdict and to clearly determine which, there is no collective responsibility there, it is only responsible for an individual concrete act of someone who has committed something and there is no collective responsibility of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65944	Okay, you get a warning, so you get a colleague of Petrov and a colleague of Katičić because it doesn't matter here... Please, I'm not late, it can't be late when something's right. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So you hurt each other's rules of procedure, and you opened up a debate, replicated one another, or a colleague, Petrov, replicated the minister, and a colleague, Katičić, a colleague of Petrova, and you get warnings. I'm calling you, my colleague Grumoya, and I see that you've called in that you're holding on to the Rules of Procedure's injuries, not that you're replicating, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65945	A colleague, Katičić, injured Article 238, is therefore not exactly what he stands for, misleading the public. The HDZ party has been declared responsible for corruption. If Ivo Sanader had stolen money, he would have put it in his own pocket then there would have been no responsibility, but you financed your election successes, your election campaigns, and there is the responsibility of the political party. I don't know how you don't understand it, neither is Papa Francis responsible for paedophile. Some priests apologized. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]] And here your president has funded your [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65946	.../Intruder: You're getting your first warning./
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65947	...a success in the election, and you don't want to apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65948	You'll get a second warning now because you've been ignoring me for 15 seconds on my warning to stop. Don't do that. Comrade Boric, you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65949	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Article 238, a colleague of Grmoja, injured the Rules of Procedure again accusing us all here together as well as fellow Petrov forgetting that the MOST party had one of the biggest affairs, the Grizzli affair, where they were able to arrange meetings with.../incomprehensible/... to organise TV shows where they were to present you as some individuals against whom they should be conducted, etc., and today they say that it is nothing. Even though Grmoya said he'd investigate He's never investigated it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65950	And you get a warning, you get a warning. Comrade Petrov, this is now turning into a debate, using a violation of the Rules of Procedure, doing what I ask you not to do. But well, I can't stop you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65951	Article 238 was injured, Mr. Boris forgets the tape recorders he was wearing, the footage he was recording, and all that he was doing in the service of the one he was convicted of. And why, what did he get in return? He got the funding of his campaign to sit here today. And he's one of the political actors who, at a time when he has little cheeks, would thank you after the Supreme Court's verdict and told people I'm sorry, I'm guilty, I'm done, I'm out of politics, I'm so dishonest and unworthy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65952	You're getting a second warning because this was a pure replica. Now comes my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65953	Thank you very much again. My colleague Petrov, apparently they're very nervous today, so they're trying to tell lies about times that don't fit at all what you're talking about. You're mixing relations with HDZ, the time of 2009, 2010, you have no idea what you're talking about, which doesn't exemplify you from being one of the parliamentary representatives or an officer who's gotten his ass kicked off as a politician next to his colleague Sincic in his term of office when he could use the state support and using all the opportunities for which people were responsible. Not you, but the ones you gave the papers to. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65954	Thank you, colleague Boris, and this is a warning, and it was also a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on with the replicas now, Col. Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65955	Thank you very much. Honorable President and Honorable Minister, Secretary of State, this replica of mine will certainly not echo as these discussions before mine were and my colleague, Habib, has well said where this debate could go and thus be shown. But I'm going to try to detect two things here as the most important maybe in this whole strategy and later in action plans. The first is to strengthen the transparency and openness of the work of the public authorities, of course by referring to the municipalities, cities and counties. And what matters to me, the involvement of the entire society, without it, has no fight against corruption. We are mainly having a debate in this way, citizens gain this poor perception, and it is mostly the focus on politicians but perception or corruption that is happening in all layers of society, and it is very important that the whole society is involved in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65956	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65957	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, apart from the openness and transparency that is highlighted in this strategy and which we are actively working on, what you have mentioned is therefore strengthening the involvement of citizens in making decisions or informing certain activities will be realised through an e-consultation system that is planned through certain activities brought down to local level. It is a very important and important thing for citizens to be familiar with the activities undertaken by the unit of local, regional and regional self-government to monitor certain activities, to monitor certain acts being adopted. And also at the local self-government, it is also planned to adopt an ethical code, as well as through the new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, declaring the interests of members of representative bodies, so that we have a great focus on local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65958	- Is everything all right? All right, a little bit, just a little please, you were loud, and your colleague, or the minister, is speaking. Let's move on, now is the replica of colleague Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65959	The chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. The robbed state is the result of the long-standing HDZ government, and this strategy is not a document that changes the situation in any way. Minister, you yourself said that the previous Strategy has fulfilled most of its measures, and we see that the results have not been delivered. This strategy is a clean copy of what we've had so far. The only thing where you were right is that prevention is 99% of success in fighting corruption. That prevention was supposed to be done by the Committee. And it is by your political engineering that the Committee is now not only weakened, but euthanized and has become a completely unnecessary anti-corruption body and I don't know how you have the shame from that pay phone to collapse on God Petrova and his conflict of interest. I made that decision, it was a decision to break the principle, the same as your party boss, Andrej Plenkovic, and that's why you're here. principles removed from the anti-corruption system. [[Thank you very much. Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65960	Before the answer, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65961	Thank you very much, Your Honor. 238. A colleague of Oreskovic insulted the esteemed HDZ representatives, forgetting that the first name a convicted criminal said when he got out of prison was her name and name, that she begged him to give her a job to work for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65962	Comrade Ivanovic, you are aware that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, you are being warned. And a colleague of Habian's, too, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65963	Thank you very much, Your Honor, my colleague has been injured by an officer. 238. It's interesting that a colleague here is talking about how the new Bill's proposal to prevent conflicts of interest has disabled the Commission's work. But it's interesting here, if you look at, let's say, the conclusion that a colleague made, a proposal which obliges the government to prepare a proposal for a strategy, she herself speaks of some of the powers that the Commission should get. It is these powers that this legislative proposal now provides for, including a wider circle of addresses. That's what you're looking for, and now you're saying it's wrong. So, what's the deal, right or wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65964	A fellow Habib, too, a violation of the Rules of Procedure and a warning. And my colleague Katicic, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65965	The Honorable Chairman, too, is the violation of Rules of Procedure 238, the demeaning and misrepresentation of the truth. My colleague Oreshkovic, you know very well that all these decisions you have mentioned have not been made by anyone but confirmed by the court's decisions and therefore, if we are a legal state, and I am deeply in favour of being a legal state, we must respect the court's decisions and respect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65966	It's okay that we have to respect the court's decisions, but you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, so you're being warned. Now let's go answer the line, Minister, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65967	Thank you very much, well-respected MPs on your replica and thank you for your involvement in public consultation during the preparation of this Strategy. I would not like the discussion on the Strategy to refer exclusively to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, but since you acted as president of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, then I will, then I will respond and I will rely on Mr. Habib's exposure. So also as a lawyer, as former President of the Committee, you must be aware of the fact that there were certain judicial decisions, therefore also the Constitutional Court's decision and the rulings of the High Administrative Court and of the decision, a series of decisions by administrative courts that actually found that the Commission was misapplying the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and in accordance with that practice, so the Ministry in a wider working group, I believe, built one quality law and enable additional mechanisms; and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The Committee's tools. [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65968	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65969	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here we have heard from one of our colleagues, Mr. Oreshkovic, about what happens in the Republic of Croatia when we talk about corruption, and today here is a title in the daily press, without the competition Puljak chose the company for the 15 million kuna job. So, we've got situations, I don't know if this is true or not, probably the press were checking, but a lot of accusations. We know that the leaders of the local self-government of the largest cities can have in accordance with the law up to the amount of some million kunas. This probably wasn't on the Council, and I don't know where it was. You're talking about the Strategy, which means the 2020-2030 fight against corruption. Just as far as local self-government is concerned, which may be under the greatest increase, as is this, means from Mrs. Center's party. Oreshkovic is something we should be interested in and conduct such a debate. Tell us, what awaits us in view of these numerous accusations coming to us in the future in this fight against corruption when [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We're talking local self-government. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65970	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65971	Thank you very much, Reverend Boric. So, most of the debate so far has been about local self-government and there is a really detected area of high-corruption risk and therefore a series of activities and measures apply precisely to local self-government. Mostly what we will probably hear, as we have heard so far and in the conduct of a series of city administrations and Mr. Puljko and Mr. Tomašević where we have one system of non-transparent appointment of members of supervisory committees or management of commercial companies owned by units of local self-government and this is exactly the area which we have recognized and which, through a series of activities and measures, we will try to make even more transparent, enable citizens of local self-government to influence through public consultation acts brought by representative bodies of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65972	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65973	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, Your Honor. You stated and explained in your opening statement of the principles, i.e. the basic objectives set out in this Strategy, and that they will be clarified through action plans in 3 three-year periods through different measures. Personally, I would like to stress in particular, and you have also confirmed in the replica of your colleague Lukačić that one of the priority tasks now is to adopt the Law on the Protection of whistles, as well as a series of measures. I think that's very good, because as we know so far, the whistlers haven't gone well for some time, and that's what demoted the citizens to talk about it, about irregularities and corruption. The lobbying law is really important, so you can say something about when it will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65974	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65975	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, as I pointed out in the opening speech, lobbying is also one area that represents a particular corruption risk and is actually only part of one and the Law on lobbying is part of an anti-corruption package of normative acts that the government is preparing in the coming period, so the working group on the Lobby Law is working on, to prepare the legislative framework. I believe that soon this law will also come to public consultation, but not only the Law on lobbying but also the Law on the notifier or the protection of the applicant of irregularities so-called. The Law on whistles, where we have adopted a regulation among the first EU countries in 2019, in the meantime the directives and the European legislation have changed, and we further agree and strengthen the mechanisms of that law. So this anti-corruption package shows the government's strong will to fight corruption, and this strategy is actually only going in this direction and provides support for a number of new normative activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65976	Thank you. Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65977	The Honorable President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here you have already mentioned once several times in your presentation a rather important part of the strategy mentioned in this strategy, of course it is a part that concerns the improvement of corporate governance in commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. Of course, in this part of the project, it is going to be, it is going to be, among other things, that part of the project which is run by the OECD will be integrated and the companies owned by JLS. So, please, how do I assess the fact that the OECD has assessed us to make significant progress in this section in its 2021 review, especially in the part of corporate governance because of the very clear reduction in corruption range?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65978	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65979	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, the basis for the adoption of this strategy was a series of documents relating to the Republic of Croatia, a report on the rule of law, a GRECO report and, among other things, the OECD report on this corporate governance system. I would point out that through the law or the new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we have further expanded the scope of the law's obligations to members of the management of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, but also owned by JLS. In addition, an important part refers to prevention and education, so that this strategy with these measures provided for in it will provide for both specific education and in this sense those who are part of the management bodies of companies owned and not only by the Republic of Croatia but also by the JLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65980	My colleague, Antoliæ Vupra, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65981	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. So one example of transformation from city to city is Varazdin. So there's a participatory budget there today, and it's there today in preparation for the ethical code and so on. The election ruled corruption and the Czech Republic with indictments from 2011, but it still dresses today with the opposition. There, there it is, there are closets full of skeletons, and one of them is also known to the general public, and that is the Treaty of Labour that will be another 8 years. After he stops being the boss guaranteeing the same pay, so the dream contract. I ask you, is the strategy guaranteeing the end of such activities and will it be the first owner or will it be the first kittens?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65982	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65983	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, the strategy is a principled document that provides for a series of measures and certain activities to be implemented through action plans. I should certainly re-absorb local self-government as an area where high corruption risk has been identified and where this strategy will certainly provide for certain activities through action plans. I also believe that through today's debate it will be crystallised and that we will see some other proposals that are constructive and that are going in this direction to strengthen transparency and more efficient and efficient governance in local self-government. I would not specifically enter an individual case in the city of Varazdin, nor in this company since it is in the jurisdiction of JLS, but certainly transparency and openness, but also corporate governance in local self-government something that will focus on these strategies, what is in the focus of this strategy, but also what is focused, which will focus on action plans and measures and activities in these action plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65984	Thank you. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65985	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. In the opening statement, you also talked about measures and actions and activities that will take place within the framework of bankruptcy. It is known that bankruptcy proceedings were very long, that there is one part of the mistrust in the judiciary, in the functioning of the system and otherwise entrepreneurs who should have the situation as soon as possible and the whole of society. Here's what I'm wondering is what you're going to do, and in what way are you actually going to significantly shorten these actions and make them as effective as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65986	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65987	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, bankruptcy and bankruptcy procedures as such are additionally and are particularly apostropheal in this strategy. Yesterday, a series of laws in the area of commercial law were put on public consultation, including the bankruptcy law which goes in this direction towards greater supervision and control of bankruptcy managers on their appointment, on their education, and also on the further acceleration of the bankruptcy process itself and particularly on the protection of workers in these bankruptcy proceedings. So I believe that through this package, the amendments to the rules relating to the bankruptcy area will create a quality legislative framework where we will avoid certain negative consequences resulting from bankruptcy proceedings, which may result from poor governance of bankruptcy or the conduct of the courts themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65988	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65989	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have listened carefully to your opening presentation and there is one part of the exhibition where I felt like it was in that 1993 film, Endless Day or Endless Day. So when we repeat the same thing, what is it? It's the lobbying law. So you were in one part talking about having to regulate lobbying and we have to regulate it. I think we are one of the few EU countries that has not regulated this. I had the opportunity to see personally two laws which then disappeared somewhere, which in the impasses of the government's corridor, which in the impasses of our parliamentary corridors never even came to debate in this House or on the road they stopped. I'm interested, in your plan of action, when you predict the law on lobbying, when it will go into public exposure and when we can expect it in the Parliament because it's one of the things and one of the elements, one of the pillars that we really want to fight corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65990	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65991	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am pleased to agree on the importance of the legislative arrangement of lobbying institutes because of this threat, or the existence of a potentially corrupt risk in this area. So the law on lobbying is as such and listed in this Strategy and in the measures to be implemented under this Strategy. It is also an important part of the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, where, as an anti-corruption measure, it is also an anti-corruption measure that the government has committed to lobbying law. During the following year, i.e. the working group is currently working on preparing this law so that I believe that we will have the first draft law on lobbying at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65992	Comrades of Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65993	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Today, when we talk about what is intended to be done to prevent corruption in the coming period, we should also remind ourselves of what this, or the previous government, has done on this issue. So, he had a new Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity 2019, then the Law on the Financing of Political Activities, Election Promotion, Referendum, the Public Procurement Act, which aims to strengthen supervision and legal protection, professionalisation and transparency, however, we are witnessing today a new title, a new campaign by which the Mayor, said Puljak, approved a 15 million kuna business without competition. What do we do to prevent such things?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65994	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65995	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well certainly a quality legislative framework is the first step, i.e. the second step in preventing or preventing this corruption. It is certainly media that have a significant role to play in preventing or preventing corruption itself, which actually shows the front page here, a daily list that has actually detected certain problematic behaviour of the mayor of Split. Whether there is a certain breach of the legislative framework, therefore it will be determined by the competent authorities, but this strategy is also actually a contribution to the fight against corruption, primarily in this part of the prevention, and certainly the media and civil society organisations, but the citizens themselves play a great role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65996	Comrade Totgergeli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65997	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Today, during the debate, there will probably be a lot of talk about conflict of interest. What, though, do I experience as one of the problems? When we choose a new mayor of a small municipality, he doesn't have to be a lawyer before that or a lawyer, and when he comes into the situation that he's the captain, he has to regulate his status in relation to the Law of Conflict of Interest, and then he asks the lawyers, in his environment how to do it, however, they don't know how to give him the answer, and they don't know the answer because the Committee in the past life has just introduced such practice that only he knows what the conflict of interest is, and which is not the way that they meet and most of the votes vote what is, and what is not a conflict of interest. This practice continues, then it falls in courts, etc. I am sure that just today, colleague Oreskovic will be very loud during the debate, so I am sure that he will speak out loud about the Puljak case from the city of Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65998	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u65999	Thank you, Your Honor, to return to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, it is certainly his important role, the role of prevention, and what should be, above all, the body that needs to make the greatest effort to avoid conflict of interest, and here, I can point out here, here, that I welcome the activities of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which are visiting the Republic of Croatia at this moment, in this part of the local elections, and educate the locals themselves and the officials themselves on the Law itself and their obligations arising from this Law, and there is, in fact, the preventive role of the Commission itself to actually explain to officials what a conflict of interest is and what actions must take to avoid conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66000	Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66001	Minister, you have announced the adoption of ethical codes, which is something the Council of the EU is constantly suggesting, and therefore it should be welcomed. Now, about the fight against structural corruption. I get the impression that some people think it's going to work by saying move this man, move this party, we're going to come, we're going to be honest. Historical experience shows that's not the case. To win structural corruption, it takes less state-owned economies and more markets. Yes, a regulated market, a social market economy, but still a market. So less people, less companies that depend on the budget of the state, the county, the city, and more on the success of the market. It's the way you can structurally beat corruption. Of course it's just like you said not only the question of one ministry or one document but it's a broader approach and, of course, the political will of the entire society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66002	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66003	Thank you, Your Honor, I will agree with your conclusion that this prevention is really important, a very important and ethical code that we have foreseen not only at the local level and for local officials, but also the one that we have foreseen and which we will bring to the state officials, and I believe that you will bring to the Croatian Assembly for Assembly MPs, MPs. So it is also important to have a mechanism that can influence, which will certainly affect the prevention and prevention of certain corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66004	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66005	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ministers when a state, administrative body persistently violates the law and damages Croatian citizens then the body rightly resorts to a pillar of shame, and often its leaders end up in some court epilogues with criminal proceedings. But when another state body also violates the law and damages another part of Croatian citizens, then the opposition tries to raise it to pedestal protectors of democracy, morality, ethics, transparency in politics. This is what happens to the Committee for Conflict of Interest. And when Croatian courts find that it was the body and its leader who persistently violated the law, they continue to accuse those who advocate the legality of respecting the independence of the judicial authority and their decisions, they are telling us that we want to illegally round the authority of that body. how we're going to prevent this from happening. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that such things and actions are interrupted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66006	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66007	Thank you very much. So certainly the legislative framework within which the competent authorities are acting is the first step in fact that these competent authorities create the confidence of the citizens themselves in the work of these bodies. I believe that the new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which will soon come here before you, will show that we as legislator, or as a proposing, and you as a Croatian Parliament have detected certain problems in the current conduct of the commission itself, which has in fact established, which has been established by certain judicial bodies where a certain authority of the commission that does not stem from the law itself was actually owned. I believe that this time that I mentioned earlier, that the commission prevents conflict of interest that this is the right way, yes, also that through the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest he also has sufficient mechanisms, and in Article 7. The law on preventing conflicts of interest exists more than sufficient mechanisms for the commission itself to prevent conflict of interest and to act if it finds that there is a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66008	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66009	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister, here you are standing before us and telling us about the proposal for a strategy to prevent corruption for the period 2021 – 2030, and I am sure that you have actively participated in the creation of this strategy and that you knew that this document would also cover the goal of strengthening the transparency and openness of the work of the public authority. To this end, I would ask you to explain what you are planning to do and how you intend to implement it in the section of transparency of appointments carried out by ministers, the Government and the Parliament itself, and with the aim of really being appointed candidates who have the best formal qualifications and with the aim of respecting the advantages set out in the laws, not that their highest advantage is HDZ support. Here I also think of the appointments of public notebooks that you sign yourself, some of which are very difficult or impossible to explain properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66010	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66011	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, the quality of the appointment of representatives not only of local self-government units but also of government and other state bodies is listed in this strategy and will certainly be dedicated to it, it is already dedicated to measures in this strategy but will be dedicated to certain activities in action plans that will be carried out through the next period. It certainly detects certain problems in practice itself, for example, primarily in local self-government companies, so that these activities will certainly go in the direction of more transparent appointment of representatives, but also the work of those bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66012	Now it's time for fellow Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66013	Dear Ministers, we are aware of all the high percentage of the negative perception of citizens as far as corruption is concerned. What concerns, however, is a very low level of awareness of corruption in citizens at local level. So we can see that for the former SDP mayor of Chakovec, who was caught in corrupt actions, support groups are gathering. In my Makarska former SDP government that pulled 4 million out of the city budget using SDP's lawyers, there are excuses, something they are fair, the current SDP government in Makarska, two business premises of the city without a public tender giving to a private company that extracts millions of profits. Still being justice they're fair, you're not. How do you change the awareness of citizens that SDPs can be thieves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66014	Before the replica of his colleague Šimičević, or the minister's reply, we have a violation of his colleague Maric's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66015	Thank you very much. A respected colleague injures Article 238, demeans our common sense, is a complete lie. First of all, I have to say that I condemn every form of corruption, whether HDZ, SDP, etc., but you can't say things that don't stand there. So this wasn't the Mayor of Chakovec's position was another position, which is why you're smudged and false. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66016	Yeah, the truth is, as far as I know, signing teams aren't collected for mayor, they're collected for mayor. Right? Yeah, well, he committed one mistake, a lapus, and then I won't give you a warning because you were right. Do you want to, uh, breach of the Rules of Procedure of Comrade Brkan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66017	Well, just like that, Mr. President, he's hurt. 238. When I was talking about the unholy actions of former Mayor Chakovec who was caught in corrupt parts, I was saying it on the basis of what is known to the public before, I may have misrepresented myself to some cartoon, but I certainly think the point is that SDPs can be corrupt too. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66018	Yes, the mayor isn't because of the corrupt shops, but because of the false accusation that he was the subject of someone's threats and so on, but well irrelevant now. I'm still going to warn my colleague, Brkan, I don't think he should have called again this way, so let's now go to our fellow Minister Malenica's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66019	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I think we are all aware of the harmfulness of corruption, but also the presence of corruption in Croatian society. And I think we should be aware that only through a quality legislative framework, but also raising awareness of corruption in the citizens themselves can help reduce corruption in Croatian society. And this strategy is actually the first step that goes towards a more quality legislative framework, a series, a series of measures and activities are aimed at reducing or preventing corruption itself because we believe that this prevention is the key to everything and through openness and transparency in local self-government we continue to allow citizens to be familiar with everything that local self-government is doing, about the activities it is taking, about how public funds are being spent, but I believe that through here and the upcoming changes to the Budget Act, we will also strengthen it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66020	Thank you, Minister. Let's go to the last line, Comrade Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66021	I thank President HS. Dear Ministers, here I welcome the adoption of the Strategy on the Prevention of Corruption because it is necessary for society or the rule of law to function. This strategy is comprehensive and inclusive because it includes all the participants in the work, meaning from the Ministry of Justice to various associations. The priority of this government is zero tolerance to corruption and all forms of unacceptable behaviour and this is evident on several occasions and the prime minister of government said Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and you ministers in his statements, education and prevention are the primary forms of preventing corruption, but also must not run from repression, when education and prevention are exhausted then, then the repression must also take place. I'm asking you [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] what the court will do to reduce the duration [[Intruder: Thank you]] Court proceedings? [[/Agreement: Col. Šimičević, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66022	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66023	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, we are aware of the challenges of lengthy court proceedings, a large number of pending cases, so these are two things that certainly do not instill citizens' trust in the judiciary, but through an action plan which the Ministry of Justice and the administration are taking, but also through the preparation of amendments to the legislative framework, primarily the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Prosecution, we are going towards speeding up, speeding up court proceedings. The action plans go or go to ensure that individual courts, judges or judges are engaged to enhance the effectiveness of work on individual cases and to reduce the number of cases left behind, so there are currently over 400,000 pending cases, and I believe that these action plans that we are currently taking will show some results by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66024	Minister, thank you. You're done with your replicas. You can go back to your seat. I call on the committee's rapporteurs now, will they take the floor? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here's my colleague Miletic to hear what he is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66025	Dear President HS Mr Jandroković, Art. 180th, therefore, I ask you that given that the agenda has been changed and that a representative of the parent board cannot come and deliver an opinion, therefore the said Anti-corruption Committee, so please if we can take a break to drink coffee up to 11 and 45 and then the president of the Anti-Corruption Committee can come here and read the opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66026	Col. Miletic, of course, has no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Grmoy came here and asked me if he could take a break, of course he couldn't, because since Friday, it's known that today's first item of the agenda will be the one we're discussing right now, and he could change the term of the board of directors, or the National Council, because he had plenty of time. Since the middle of last week, it has been known, then I announced that we would be discussing this point this week and he had to take care of when this debate was going to be, he knew it from Friday, and that he could have called for it later in the morning, yesterday, tomorrow, anytime, but not exactly at the time of this debate. So I can't subdue the debate at a plenary session of a committee or council. So I understand what you're saying, but there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since none of the committee's rapporteurs appear, we are now going to debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of Mosta, the Honored counterpart Petrov, and after him, Col. Miletic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66027	counterparts and fellow MPs, the government led by a party convicted of corruption, proposes a Anti-Corruption Strategy, a party that has a judicial certificate for corruption, a party whose time is the last 5 years. Moved a quarter of a million people from Croatia. Why is it so sharp? Because I see that in today's debate you show neither a crumb of regret nor a crumb of reason, understanding and regret for what you've done, so otherwise you'd be more constructive, not in this debate in the first hour I see excuses, I see even the upheaval of understanding corruption. You know that's the weakness of individuals, that's the weakness of individuals. The weakness of individuals such as corruption that harms society should be punished because if it is not punished then it becomes a rule and society suffers. There's no understanding for corruption. There's no understanding of such weakness. People like that can't run politics. What are you doing? You're going so far as to accuse the SKH, so do you understand how pathetic that sounds, how ridiculous that sounds? And when you say that you will not accept collective responsibility, so my people are collectively responsible, the Supreme Court of People has declared you responsible under the Law of Liability of Legal Persons in writing. And that's why you're done with that story. Smarter, more responsible, more mature, people we've made a problem and we're all wrong, but burying our heads in the sand while you've got a Supreme Court ruling on organized corruption is funny, funny. Instead of strengthening the institutions to fight corruption, the government continues to bang and that little power to the remaining institutions, and we see that it has also done so with the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. And as far as this strategy is concerned, people are clean side-by-side technical details that distract attention from the catastrophic state of institutions. Once before, the president of the state himself needs to make an account for travel orders, today, the travel orders of the ambassador's wife are a state secret. Today, the Prime Minister, when it comes to interpreting the European Commission's opinion that we are at the bottom, that we are champions of corruption in the EU, you know how he says, the European Commission has not recognised our positive shifts made. Interesting. What the European Commission does when it suits you is good, when it does not fit and does not look through your pink glasses is not good. Please tell me what are the positive shifts? Until this government sat down we weren't the worst in Europe. Today we are the worst in Europe, today we are the champions of corruption in Europe. Half of the government has gone to you, and no one has mentioned it today, half of the government has left you in the past because of suspicion of corruption. Guys, what positive shifts are you talking about? What positive shifts does Andrej Plenkovic speak of? And we need to be aware of that. We need to be realistic, we need to be rational. Your corruption will not be eradicated in a way that you will abolize it. Not some education will deter judges or any other public officials from taking bribes but will make them harsh legal penalties. Where are they? Your education will not stop any state attorneys or other public officials from hiding millions in the trunks and basements, but fear of Remetinec. Where is it? When you look at other countries' practices, then you can see that Slovakia has changed the story. You know how? She founded an independent body. Dozens of judges, police officers and public officials after a change in government over corruption ended up in prisons. And as you go along and justify corruption, I'm afraid that will happen after changing this power because then it will be necessary to see who was hiding corruption, who was covering up corruption. People don't go that way. It's not necessary. Croatia does not deserve that direction. What is worst is how this government sees Croatia in the fight against corruption in 10 years. And that's what it says in this strategy. You know where he sees us? According to their target values, Croatia should take its place on the corruption scale now taking place in 2030. So Croatia should be below the EU average in 10 years from now. And that's why we're gonna refuse you this dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66028	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sanader, the respected ministers with associate, colleague, colleague, I must admit that this debate reminds me a little bit of that situation in the Bible, in the first garden of Eden, if we take that HDZ forgive me in these pictures of Eva, and SDP Adam, and now I am in between, and the snake is evil, because who and we know that this is one picture of whether, no, and now I'm listening to these transfer these, these, these, these, these, these, it's no one's fault whether, it's amazing that picture. Eva was persuaded by evil, but when God confronted her with it, then she said it wasn't my fault, it wasn't my fault, the snake talked me into it, and whoever did it wasn't me, it wasn't me, so it wasn't Adam or Eve or anyone else. I'd like to, you know, how we at the MOST talked about it, some of you were saying something, who made a mistake here, so you apologize, you repent, and you say that we're sorry, we made a mistake, that someone made a mistake. Yeah, for example. I didn't, but that someone was wrong. Isn't that a prerequisite that you can go forward if you admit a mistake. What I don't like about it as a man if it's not, it's nobody's fault if it's not. Corruption is a product of a corrupt society. I really believe that, I spoke this morning at a stop, the state isn't corrupt, it's not. The law in the foundation can't be corrupt either, I believe as Marin Miletic party as a party can't be corrupt, the party as a party, but people who make a party can be corrupt, so any one I don't know about in SDP, Most, HDZ, DP, I don't know, We can!, so people who do something can be fair, quality and good, and can be corrupt. It's people who do something, and that's why I'd like to make it more clear that we're all communicating together somehow and let's say if something's wrong, if someone made a mistake somewhere, if I fell somewhere, apologize, speed up with the ashes, and here I am, folks, if you want me to move on, if you don't deal with something else. So I was saying in the pause that my argument is really ad absurdum on the one hand that we listen here's how the Anti-Corruption Strategy is proposed by those who have experience with corruption because they have as individuals whether it's not within an organization. But on the other hand, when you're through something, you know where you can't do anything again so something doesn't happen to you again. So I pray to God that, yes, to succeed that and yes, that this corruption is choking. And that's why I stayed surprised when my colleague Kirin talked about who corruption is a dragon, this I'm adding a dragon, he didn't say dragon, but as we're gonna fight it, we're gonna try it, we're gonna try what you're gonna try, brother and sister at the end, so you don't accept it, and you're gonna fight it, and you want a statue with a foot on her head, you're gonna crush her that she's not in your backyard anywhere else, and this law of the Minister has to do it. So, you as an honest man must burn, so there is no one above you and below you, but the dear God and that corruption should be driven out, driven out, polished with gasoline, burned to disappear, so that we can go forward as a state. We're a young country, it tightens us, that noose, we can't breathe, whenever you think we breathed again, push us down below the surface. And that's why we at the Mosta Club suggest that the government of the Republic of Croatia may be deprived of the proposal to establish new processes by Christmas break, and that one of the working bodies should be gathered to be a proposing here if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66029	We have several violations of the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66030	Thank you, Vice President. He's been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Petrov, are self-respecting members of the HDZ Club. A colleague of Petrov and me and 15 HDZ deputies against whom no proceedings are being conducted, nor judicial, nor was it found in a conflict of interest unlike you whose political legacy will be the fraud of voters with a public record statement and a legacy left to the mayor of Metkovic a million kunas of costs which you have caused by the illegal treatment and dismissal of numerous workers and officials of the city of Metkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66031	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have a warning. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66032	Thank you, dear Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, MP Petrov really insulted the MPs here all present, and the public by remembering to moralise against the party who wanted to enter power, the government and under the auspices of the night, he walked from one party to the other party eager to participate in the government, and he knew by now that there was probably a Fimi-media process, but because of his own interests, he did not mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66033	We have a warning. Marin Piletić, a respected representative, here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66034	In 238, respected vice president, MP Petrov says it is pathetic that the SKH and SDP in the moments when Croatia was occupied by national state property, seized hundreds of squares of property that should belong to the state by law, made it impossible for real users of local and regional self-government units to dispose of these properties paid for by the people's money not party. Who will be against this strategy? Your club that makes up a few godmothers and a married couple, when you need to get a job on a philosophical married couple gets a job on a philosophical basis, when you need to run a HRT then a married couple... on the HRT, when required in the Assembly [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] A married couple... [[Intruder: Time]] to the Assembly [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66035	You used this for replication and you have a warning and please don't abuse the time. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66036	Col. Miletic injured 238, using Bible motives for these political structures here in the assembly. But speaking of how you need a statue of corruption with your foot on your head, I'm curious about how he's going to stand on the head of God's Petrova in a godfather's affair, how he's going to stop when he named his brother-in-law where he shouldn't have... Bridge, so make up your mind once, get on your own head first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66037	And you used this to replicate, you have a warning. The following violation of the Rules of Procedure is the respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66038	Thank you, Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, Mr. Bozo Petrov insults actually all HDZ representatives who are in this assembly. I feel proud of the Croat and proud HDZ member, and I have not alienated any Junees, and I believe that all these people sitting here too, so there is no collective responsibility and if he is already talking about guilt, let him talk about the name and last name, and not the HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66039	All right, we got a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is Honorable Representative Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66040	Mr. Vice President, here's the violation of the Rules of Procedure, In 283, it really offends In 238, he insulted HDZ MPs repeatedly calling for the past, history, affairs. [[/Intruder: 238.]] I don't know if there's any study to show how many parties they are, given how long they've spent in power and having an affair. I think that would be very interesting, and that bridge would far go even in front of the SDP, if we could figure it out, given the number of members and the time they've spent in power, how many of these affairs they've had. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66041	A reminder to you, too, because this is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The next is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66042	Dear Vice President of HS, I would ask nicely for the whole debate to return to corruption itself for the reason that this has now begun to be on a personal basis here attacks. And on the other hand, I'm going to warn you, I don't know if you were here in the Parliament, so colleague Nikola Grumoja got 2 warnings because he broke time for -15 seconds, Mr., or Col. Piletic had -17 seconds and he only got one warning. I would like equal rights to be introduced for all of us MPs, so that we can discuss, so that we can all be treated equally in the Assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66043	Okay. Thank you for your warning, same warning to you. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66044	Rules of Procedure 238, colleague Troscott, he doesn't realize that he's part of a party too, and he can't attack another party, and then when someone attacks the Bridge, there's a little crying and he says we're back to what's important. Well, my colleague Petrov didn't say anything about the strategy here, he just attacked HDZ all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66045	Second warning to you, too. Mr. Bozo Petrov, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66046	Injury. 238, it is an honor for me to receive a third warning and not to be in this company, for when it is warned to you, it is for a reason that you are responsible. And understand that. The money your boss stole, you used to sit there today. End of story. And I said about the Strategy and I said that it is unworthy to discuss in the Croatian Parliament because it is not good enough. And technically bad. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66047	Okay. As you have announced yourself, this is your third warning, you lose the right word until the end of the debate on this agenda point. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66048	Thank you very much, Vice President. He's been injured. 238, Mr. Bozo Petrov insults all of us HDZ members, I must tell you Mr. Petrov that I do not have any punishment, or any of this, the Commission for the conflict of interest on, neither punishment nor warning, and you have it, therefore this one, you do not have to be ashamed to sit here with us, I nor the other members have such warnings or penalties, so you should apologize to us, and not you to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66049	And a warning to you because you used this as a replica. No more injuries. Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, respected representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66050	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is more and more like a competition in who's having more corrupt affairs, I hope we'll get back to being this morning when I'm going to the Parliament, I met an acquaintance, asking me what you're doing today, I say the Anti-Corruption Strategy, the man laughed. After that, he had a little bit of an idea, so he said basically, it's tragic. We've all been googled about it, and we've accepted corruption as something that's right, and it's not normal and it can't be normal, and I'm going back to this vision that's really well engaged, but I'm afraid it's going to take us a little more than 10 years because as we've started and the situation on the ground, it seems to me that with these governments of continuity, we're not going to root out corruption, not until 2030 to which this strategy is. Why am I saying that? The situation in which Croatia is located is not only today but it has really not given way to trust and is making fun of it for years. The affairs are lower after each other, in vain all these stories, corruption has a name and last name, zero tolerance to corruption, etc. You're all about to have the media write for a while, and then come up with some kind of hot PR has, Maestro small, maestro big, Spice, this, what, over there, there and slowly it falls into oblivion and one big nothing. The verdicts come 11 years later, and even longer because there are 10 thousand pages, 20 thousand pages, 50 thousand pages, etc., and the accession contract in the EU of Croatia has 17 thousand pages, so they say, while the ruling does not need a referendum on kuna, we have already spoken of it. Who read those 17,000 pages when he went to a referendum to join the EU? There's a new affair coming up and going around. The number of ministers in each government that we have had so far, whether HDZ, whether SDPs, is irrelevant, with which one or more affairs are connected is indeed quite significant and not surprising because perception is such that 97% of citizens believe that corruption is widespread, 54% of citizens believe that corruption affects them in their personal lives, and 57% of businesses consider corruption to be a problem for business, for their business, and by that we are the worst in the EU, that is, the fact, you can now bicker, injury to the Rules of Procedure, here, there, we are not responsible, you are responsible. We're holding an infamous first place by these indicators. We had the Strategy for the past 10 years and before that, what changed? Less or less nothing. See, the focus is on local communities, there's everything there, but the moment everyone's asked for municipal, urban and county budgets to be transparent until the last June, then I'll believe you're really fighting corruption. Then I'll believe you that the budget funds, the taxpayers' funds, will not be spent on lambs, towers and perfumes, but on what our citizens need. You state transparency in this document and access to information as a fundamental right, so ministers do not respond to parliamentarians within the prescribed deadlines, so that they would then answer to the citizens. At the level of local and regional self-government we saw today in Split the circus, after the selection of the divisions of prey. Who's gonna water, who, who, who's gonna start like when kids play monopoly, social game, who's gonna water, who's gonna live, who's gonna do this, who's gonna give up the board? At the meeting of the City Council of Osijek a few days ago in the Theatre Council of the Children's Theatre Branko Mihaljevic, two members were appointed as a doctor of dental medicine, the second administrative secretary of the Management Department for Agriculture and Rural Development of Osijek-Baranja County, although the Law on Theatre says nicely that they must be respected artists, cultural workers, theatre artists, cultural workers, etc., not dentists and secretaries, but it still did not bother the city council. Remind me of who's in power in the city of Osijek, that it may not be HDZ with its 6-7 coalition partners. We often hear the prosecutor's case being said everyone hits HDZ and thinks HDZ is constantly firing. But is that really so? You've read a little bit about these appointments, so I haven't eaten. They don't write anything about it or the local newspaper, Glas Slavonia, and in order to write to them when they were paid by a county institution founded by Osijek-Baranja County it's the Heart Pharmacies, Pharmacies of Osijek-Baranja County, which loaned one million and 100 thousand kuna on two occasions, once 400,000, the second time 700,000, although in its statute in Article 7, money lending and financial transactions are not listed as the activity of these drugstores. Remind me who's in charge of the Osijek-Baranja County? Is it HDZ again? Or I picked up something wrong and who's going to be responsible for this, Mr. Secretary of State, who's right here in Osijek. How this strategy that you have put on our bench today will prevent this anti-legislative staffing, it is also against the law to lend private companies to the media by an institution that is the founder of Osijek-Baranja County or some other county. What are you going to do now, now you know, you've been looking for concrete? Here, you have a specific one. It'll probably be eaten by a donkey wolf, the MP said something, and hopefully the media won't notice it, and just so it's not on the cover, let's go on and say American business assual. In Austria, Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, together with his closest associates, paid taxpayers' money to the media to publish positive articles about him and the party. In Austria, it's obviously corruption. In Croatia, no one coughs or coughs. And I don't know why you think we're gonna take this strategy seriously. When you have corrupt stores at all levels all around us. These are the examples I have set you have in many municipalities, cities, counties, companies that establish the same county, cities, municipalities. I don't know why you're wondering why we're looking for some kind of responsibility. I don't know. What we see, what the measures are envisaged, are beginning with words of strengthening education, improving, developing systems, digitising. So it's going to be some kind of active, some action plans, and then there's something over there, so in three years, this is going to pass the time. But you must be aware that corruption is also one of the reasons why people leave, why they move from Croatia. They want to live in an orderly state, and they simply don't have to be told for every little thing that our people would say to look for a relationship. Citizens have been operationally implementing their anti-corruption strategy for years and leaving Croatia. In this way they tell you that they have lost faith that anything can change here and have simply gone to live in orderly states. That's their opinion on your fight against corruption. They made it very clear and loud by leaving Croatia. And you don't have to apologize for that verdict to me, you don't have to apologize to me, you don't have to apologize to me or to my fellow councilmen here, but apologize to the Croatian citizens, apologize to the people who have left the Croatian state for corruption and never intend to return to it again for corruption. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66051	Okay. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative of Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66052	Dear Mr Vice President, Article 238, our colleague insults the representatives who come from Osijek-Baranja County in a way that represents different insinuations. I don't see what the problem is with putting people who aren't necessarily cultural workers into the administrative council of some theater, so they're the only ones who have to be there. So, in the absence of any real arguments, you're making some kind of fiction just to cure your frustrations because you lost those choices there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66053	It was your replica, you have a warning, it's your second warning. The following is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66054	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mrs Vucilović, I listened to this debate of yours, but you hurt Article 238, because you say that we must not apologize to you here in the assembly, but to the citizens, who you will apologize to Mrs Vucilović for coming to this Croatian Parliament and abandoning it. And HDZ is a stable party that remains strong and that citizens trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66055	The following is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66056	The Vice-President of Article 185, the rapporteur of the working body who has discussed the draft law, may present opinions, views, observations and proposals taken by the working body. Since the schedule has been changed, this point should be next week and I, as president of the Anti-Corruption Council, have called a session for today, could not cancel it because of the external members, it is a body that has external members, I have not had the opportunity to present an opinion, I ask you to come to my meeting and to present the opinion of the working body here now after these violations of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66057	This isn't my house or my decision. There's a Rules of Procedure, there's a Rules of Procedure interpreting here the Rules of Procedure is that you can't. You can appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, if they approve, then we will give you a chance. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66058	Thank you very much. Article 238, although here fellow Shashin injured one principled thing, which is respect for Croatian laws. I see you don't understand that the laws should be respected. The law says nicely who can be in the theatre council, if your dentist and secretary in the county are cultural employees, to me they are not, and neither are city councilmen who have initiated the procedure. So the law must be respected by all and so must those who are in power and those who are in opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66059	You used this injury to answer their lines, which is why you too have been warned. Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66060	Dear Vice-Presidential Assembly, first of all we all know and we are aware that bad authority is the cornerstone of corruption, and the benefits of corruption are only powerful, and everyone has damage. In particular, the poorest ones and those who do business according to regulations, who stick to order and do business honestly, have damages. Much has been said about this, but unfortunately in Croatia little has been done and done on this issue. Unfortunately, Croatia is now a poor and robbed country, and some have become rich in that accident, and as is evident from the example of this and the past Plenkovic government, some continue to be rich. Corruption not only eats up Croatian society, because of it we live worse, it makes pensions less, it simply reduces the chance for society to succeed, because of it the young emigrate, it makes investments at levels that have never been, at record low levels. And especially sad is the loss of citizens' trust in the system of supervisory institutions. Because when people see that those who should protect them from corruption like judicial authorities and other supervisory institutions actually often close their eyes to that corruption. According to Transparency International reports, corruption in private pockets is a few billion kunas a year, and that's not funny. Those several billion kunas, to go into private pockets instead, could go to higher wages, could go to higher pensions, could go to an increase in disability benefits that remain poor and poor. What is clear and what is seen in this report is also this strategy. The anti-corruption strategy that Croatia remains among the most corrupt countries in Europe and that there is no movement there. We sink deeper and deeper on that plan every year. And the corruption perception index in which we are 63 points directly to the way both state apparatus and state and government function, as well as everything the government is doing to fight corruption. And what does it do? He's not actually doing anything. And you can have the best anti-corruption strategy if you don't have the political will, if you don't have the political strength to spend it, it just falls into the water. Unfortunately, there is no political will in Croatia, no political power, and no strategy. Because this is not a strategy this is one of the seminar work of Minister Malenica which is now missing, and the importance of this topic for HDZ and the ruling best of all is that there is neither Prime Minister nor Prime Minister here, and this debate has also been left by the resolution minister. As for the will to eradicate corruption in Croatia, it may have been said better just last week when HDZ as a political party received a verdict for theft. Then, instead, the HDZ leadership fenced itself from it and told Croatian citizens they actually denied any responsibility of HDZ by transferring everyone to Ivo Sanader and his personal responsibility. But Ivo Sanader is not a god knows who, Ivo Sanader is the former president of HDZ, he is a man whose many of his associates are sitting in this Croatian Assembly today, some of whom have worn black bags for him. You know that very well. It's his fault, but it's like they have absolutely nothing to do with him. Of course, Prime Minister Plenkovic himself washed his hands of his political patron from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ivo Sanader, and relatively relativated the guilt rather than apologizing to Croatian citizens. And why would he do that? Because he himself led a government that left 14 ministers in the past term for suspected crimes and corruption. So who is most responsible for this, I guess, the head of the orchestra, the head of the orchestra, the head of the Croatian government who not only had no need to apologize, but did not say anything in the field and denied his own responsibility. Look at Austria, that someone noticed well, in which there were indications of a crime of abuse of position and authority by people in the Austrian government and Kurtz was immediately not thinking of resigning as an Chancellor because he said that Austria is more important than he is. Of course, in our case, Croatia is next, of course not more important than they are because they and their model of rule are actually more important than Croatia. Unfortunately, there is no such personal political responsibility in Croatia because if there were ministers in this government that we have witnessed in many affairs, they would have resigned long ago. Corruption goes so far that the vaccination system was also thrown out of public shame in Croatia, despite allegedly strong ties in Brussels, the government did not initially provide enough amounts of vaccines, after which the "Velapi se" system fell before it was raised, and for this system someone naturally took big money. There was no responsibility for health or for the citizens, and especially for those who died because of the inadequateness and timely use of vaccines and inadequate government reactions. And that's why Croatia is at the bottom of the fissure, because people have lost confidence in the government, in institutions. Look at the Nordic states, look at the countries where people trust their institutions. Only rare examples are the personal responsibilities of politicians in Croatia, and these very rare examples are actually confirmation that the exception confirms the rule, and the rule is that personal responsibilities in politics still do not exist today. The policy at the Social Democrats Club is not our authority but our sole responsibility, so we look at it. And our goal is not power but ours, our goal is to make politics a means to ensure a decent life for every man in Croatia, a better life, and therefore this power must not be corrupt and therefore we will continue to fight for the objectives that are extremely important in the fight against corruption, which is strengthening and protecting independent institutions of supervision, that is, systematic determination of the origin of property, property cards, and confiscation of property acquired by abuse, that is to tighten penalties and speed up procedures for corruption cases, that is to introduce stricter and independent control of public procurement, spending of public money and property cards. It is also important to respect and guarantee the freedom of media and journalists, as well as to strengthen investigative journalism, non-profit media, as well as civil society organisations under great pressure. We also need to enable proactive publication of public data as one of the main cornerstones of the prevention of corruption. It is also important to monitor effectively the financing of parties and campaigns, including referenda campaigns, with the provision of expertise, rather than similarity in employment in public enterprises and other institutions. It is also extremely important and transparent, and efficient availability and management of public assets including privatisation processes, as well as the publication of budgets at all levels so that these budgets are simply more transparent and understandable and that they can be better monitored when it comes to corruption. What should also be made possible is to prevent the escape of the guilty across the borders of our country to which we often witness. I still believe that Croatia is a country that has great potential and a chance to succeed, but only if we get rid of corruption and only if it is served by people who are willing to serve it, not those who are willing to rob it. Our task, primarily here, I see the role of HS and MPs, is to strengthen our country's institutions, especially the supervisory institutions because the formula is clear. A strong state means strong institutions, strong supervisory institutions mean successful Croatia, without it there is nothing. I am therefore sorry that this debate for political reasons was pushed away this week which she was not on the day she was supposed to be, and for political reasons she was transferred because that day was judgment to Eve Sanader and what this anti-corruption committee that my colleague spoke of from the Club of Representatives of the Most was not held for the second day but was pushed all in one day so that there was as little talk of corruption as possible in Croatia, which is never more pronounced and which HDZ is therefore, so HDZ's representatives are eager to defend as if it were not there, it is something that I find unacceptable, as Mr. Vice-Presidents are inadmissible to be present today, I will say the same thing here before I answer probably to the replicas that will be used by the Rulesman HS as a tool for replicating and injudications of the Rules of Procedures instead of focusing on their individual debates and what they will say. This is a clear abuse of the institutions and HS and the Rules of Procedure, it is not good for Parliamentism either, and it further undermines the reputation of HS, and HS is an institution that should restore our country's trust and provide citizens with actually this important trust in the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66061	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66062	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague was injured by an officer. 238, he speaks of an apology, so here I ask my colleague Bernardic, when he will apologize for dancing the car with Mayor Lovrić Merzel, when he will apologize for narrating and crying with Mr Kovac, when will he apologize for what, for example, Ikić Baniček did not deliver the documents ordered by USKOK? When he talks about HDZ, I ask him what's wrong with the SDP of SKH, when he thinks and why he didn't do anything about the return of property that was registered in the '90s? As for confidence in the government, enough tells you yesterday's research, and trust in the Social Democrats is so much that it doesn't care about that research.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66063	This was your replication to the previous speaker, and you have a reminder of this violation of the Rules of Procedure that it wasn't. The following violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66064	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. He's been injured. In 238, MP Bernardic presented in his debate of course a series of lies to rock both the government and HDZ, and the highlight of hypocrisy is that he blames the government for the lack of vaccines. The vaccine has enough, and he and his party have not contributed to the promotion of vaccination, nor have they dealt with their own personal problems, and it is really unacceptable for someone who declares themselves as moral vertical.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66065	And you used this breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you have a warning too. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66066	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, which is exactly what I warned myself, so the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, was violated, of course, by Article 238 used to replicate instead of talking about the metrics. And I'll remind Mrs. Nada Murganic very well that she was expelled from the government because of numerous affairs, and Mr. Habian, I don't remember dancing with anyone, if it's your auto projection, and you were dancing with someone, it's just your thing and don't impute it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66067	Here you are begging not to use the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you have done the same. You used this to respond to their replicas, then you used a reminder. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66068	Dear Vice President, it is very rare for me to use this instrument, you know it yourself, to be seen in the statistics of the Croatian Parliament. This is the way I fully condemn the work, especially when you cannot respond to the difamation and eat this fellow from the assembly, and you must also use the breach of the Rules of Procedure to respond to the accusation that we have done nothing about the campaign as regards the vaccination itself against the pandemic, which is totally and absurd slander and diphrase.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66069	Here was the introduction, I expected it to be the end, but you also succumbed to this one to give replicas through this injury, and then to you as well. Hope Murganic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, is your third.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66070	I know, but really this is also another lie by MP Bernardic, I am not expelled from the government because of numerous affairs, it is unfortunate that the tragedies of some of our citizens are used for false accusations while at the same time you were kind to your minister when she unfortunately had these same cases in her portfolio. Double standards, Mr Bernardic, but you have two parties, so you can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66071	Okay, this is the same thing again, you got this third warning, you lose the right word until the end of the debate on this agenda point. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66072	Of course, Article 238, the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and I will remind Nada Murganić, that you are not ashamed of gifts intended for poor children, you shared in a private kindergarten with rich children. How can you not be ashamed? I'm asking you, do you have any shame? Are you ashamed? And it's not the only one of your affairs? Are you ashamed of that? How can you not be ashamed that you took from the mouth of poor children and gave gifts to private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66073	And to you, and to you, you know that you used this as a replica, so please, please, peace in, Mr. Shimičević Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66074	I thank the Vice President, Article 238, I cannot believe that my colleague Bernardic can speak this way to an esteemed colleague for something that has no proof or that is not true. So you're cheating on the public, you're telling the truth, and then you want people to believe you. You're telling the truth then God will be on your side.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66075	Okay, here's Bernardiæ's second warning, you've got the same other warning. We still have reports of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Marin Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66076	Mr. Bernardich, who did you get your scholarship when you got a significant amount? Maybe those students who didn't have the opportunity to study and didn't have the opportunity to get a scholarship. I've asked you several times to return the property your party has as a legal follower of the Communist party to the local self-government unit, you haven't even responded. You wanted out of the troubled city budget that was destroyed in the Homeland War for the benefit of your party. Take more than a million kunas. [[Intruder: Time.]] Aren't you ashamed? Mr. Bernardich? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66077	And a reminder to you. Davor Bernardic, no, giving up. Eric Fabianic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66078	... with the fact that the chocolates were exactly reported in the media, and regarding the scholarship man was awarded a scholarship, he didn't ask for it. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66079	Okay, you too have a reminder of this breach of the Rules of Procedure. Following further discussion, please, please, follow the debate on behalf of the SDSS Club, respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66080	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, we have heard many times, so before us is the proposal for a strategy to prevent corruption for the period of '21. By the '30s. For a moment, I feel that the expression is too mild and that the document should be called a strategy to prevent and combat corruption. Therefore, repressive action because corruption should be fought and preventively, but it is also not enough to prevent and combat corruption at all levels of government, and this should certainly be a priority for both the strategy and the proposal's priority. Corruption is certainly something that has crawled into every slow life and represents a social phenomenon that has a strong negative effect on the rule of law and trust in institutions. It certainly has an impact on the economy, democratic political culture, and it certainly concerns all of us, all of us citizens. Research on the perception of corruption, which is supposed to go into a fight against corruption at all, generally shows poor results, sometimes the worst. Above the European average, we are unfortunately in a bad context. At the same time, we are in certain categories below the European average, unfortunately again in a bad context. Such numbers warn of the lack of confidence of citizens in institutions and public authorities, so the data really sounds devastating from Eurobarometer survey that as many as 97% of citizens believe corruption in the country has spread as the percentage in the EU is 71%. For example, 54% of people believe that corruption directly affects them in everyday life, and in the EU, the average is twice as small, 26%. Such numbers certainly warn, as I said, of the lack of trust of citizens in institutions and public authorities. When it comes to trust in institutions in the context of the fight against corruption, citizens have the highest confidence in civil sector organisations and at least in courts, public defenders and police. This strategy states that the common position is to reduce the percentage of corruption and that this is one of the basic objectives to be pursued. I believe that the goal should not be to banish and reduce the percentage, which is certainly one mere statistic but should be to restore citizens' confidence in the institutions of government. We all know, especially we parliamentary deputies, which means once the citizens' trust is lost and it's very difficult and very demanding to regain it. In this strategy, it is commendable to provide for the regulation of lobbying issues, as well as to further improve the framework for the protection of whistle-blowers. Of all forms of corruption, therefore bribery, embezzlement, conflict of interest, extortion, bias, in Croatia according to the analyses of one economic expert is certainly the biggest problem of clientelism or favouring and assigning jobs or some other benefits to certain individuals or close associates, regardless of their abilities and with a special accent, therefore, if it is about the granting of lucrative and influential jobs or the position of relatives or members of the family, then it is of course known that we are talking about nepotism, which the media very often and very detailedly speak of. The strategy further regulates the issue and strengthening capacity to manage and verify the property cards of judicial officials, it is also something that we have met thanks to media actions, but also to further improve the public procurement system due to the presence of corruption at, the most pronounced local presence, which was also systematically reported by the media and will certainly be the most challenging implementation of anti-corruption measures in public procurement systems in the area of regional, local and regional and regional self-government. Public procurement procedures in the Republic of Croatia have been under strict control so far, from the publication of documents to the decision to choose suppliers. But corruption has been found to occur before. in the process of creating conditions and defining technical specifications. There is, of course, the setting up of tenders for individual suppliers and that is what this strategy should pay particular attention to. I said something about, or asked about, health care measures, and I hope that, as I said, there will be a prevention of conflicts of interest in staff who, at the same time, work at the same time in both private and public sectors, and that is certainly something that burdens the health system, which is common practice. The education of citizens on corruption and the benefits of reporting must have a more important place in the strategy. It lists a number of educations from a number of public service employees, judicial officials, such as sports inspectors or customs officials. However, what is certainly missing, and what I said should be paid particular attention to is that the problem of corruption begins to be discussed at the earliest age, perhaps at the beginning of high school education, when young people should certainly be referred to corruption, about its harmfulness, about its negative effects on society as a whole. So, an effective fight against corruption, we have had the opportunity to hear, not only implies public authorities, but the whole society, the business community, the citizens, the civil sector, the international community, but also, in particular, the special relationship of the media, and certainly in this strategy, I dare say that the media deserves a larger number of pages, and not just one small paragraph. We must detect and act on the causes of corruption because it is too late to take on when these consequences arise because the consequences of corruption are certainly harmful to the whole society except for a corrupt person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66081	Next is a debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66082	Thank you, Vice President Sanader. Dear representatives of the ministry, our fellow state secretary, Salapic, respected colleagues and colleagues, is presently with us. Since we are listening carefully to today's debates, but we are also listening to everything that has been said about this Anti-Corruption Strategy over the past few days, I think we should start by reminding ourselves in our discussions that the year is 2021 and is very close to 2022. So we went deep into the 21st century. When we think about how far we have gone in the 21st century, we should remember how many opportunities we missed out on this 21st century, how many chances we missed and in our mandate of EU membership how many of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens because of our mistrust in Croatian institutions and disappointment in the situation in society have left our country, how many economic operators have failed, how many potential large investors have bypassed our country and how in this we have managed to find ourselves at the bottom of everything by perception and faith in our judiciary and faith in our institutions, but also how we have managed to create that the corruption of the Maltese is the most frequently mentioned word and that there are no more topics that we can normally speak to our citizens correctly that they will not immediately shake hands and say, it is all corruption. In addition to the word transitions, conversions and privatisations, structural reforms, any reform of corruption has been in the top 5 mentioned words in the past 30 years. It is probably mentioned more than Janica Kostelic or Croatian football team or Vegeta or Chocolate that I do not now list brands that can be mentioned. And every honour of strategy, every honor and will to have a new strategy and every honor of what we want to achieve with that strategy, but first we should ask ourselves how this word of corruption has gotten so home and how we have come to the fact that, in fact, if we talk about going to a doctor, the enrollment of a sports school, high school, college, car registration, job search, public procurement, we always end up with the words of corruption. How we came to our citizens even when they have to go to our courts eventually end up in the words of corruption. What did we all do together so we didn't get to it? Today, several times mentioned the Union of Communists of Croatia and the SDP as a legal follower of SKH, I am surprised that after 31 years we have more to talk about, but ok, maybe it's something that will save us and the fact of corruption even though communism has failed for some reason. It failed because democratic dissatisfaction arose and people said they no longer wanted to live in such a social order. So we're discussing something that died and doesn't exist. Ivica Racan, as SDP's president at the time, apologized for what happened in communism as a legal follower of the SKH. I repeat, Hansel Racan apologized. And even when he explained why he reformed the SDP, now I'm going to make a little joke, so I guess that's why we like to go back so much on the topic of communism and the communist party, he said he simply lost his membership because the vast majority of communists have moved to HDZ. Maybe it's itchy, so we like to mention it so much. We had one run-in with corruption when we were hunting the EU at the time, obviously in negotiations we made a lot of promises, a lot of guarantees from the EU that we were going to achieve, closed or prosecuted by some ministers and vice-presidents of the government, the Prime Minister himself, dropped some large and large and economic fish, and we even had attempts to deal with the mafia, but we entered the EU and today we can say again that we have experienced either fiasco or semi-fisco because nobody but journalists and probably people working in the judiciary, and they don't know at what stage some major cases are at, where some large and large fish are except that a good part of them have escaped across the border and as far as we are concerned with all these processes. So, we missed that train of joining the EU too. And now that we have the Supreme Court ruling against HDZ that would also contribute to social hygiene if at least someone had apologized and told us we were sorry that Ivo Sanader was working, we kicked him out of the party, let's all change something together, we interpret there's no need to apologize, but if there wasn't any communism there wouldn't be a Sanader, there would be no thieving, there wouldn't be corruption. The fact that we've already entered the stage that our voters who are enrolled and that's how it goes from year to year, the vast majority of them are not living in communism anymore, it doesn't matter we'll leave it behind, but it sounds good for those we can set on fire with that topic. And that's why it's every honor to make a strategy to deal with corruption, but also let's not run like the ruling one is now trying to run helplessly from a lot of bad things happening in the last 30 years, and that's why we have the state and perceptions of corruption that we have today and what we're trying to talk about today. And that we have the best strategy will not change perception as long as we run away from apologizing for the sins of our former evicted president, so long as we at the Supreme Court and discuss the leadership of the Supreme Court will be more important than who suggested it, and not what that man or that woman can offer, when we will have such discussions about who will run the DORH or USKOK, when we will continue to have that will talk about names, but we will insist on running away from the conditions in which these people work in the police, the DORH and USKOK, what wages they have, whether they have human capacity, whether they have the technological capacity and whether they have any connection because the relationship is not a good word, but there is a link that those people can ultimately expect for their fair work to be judged by the Croatian judiciary when they catch criminals. That doesn't happen too often so far. We will also not deal with corruption for as long as the Committee for Conflict of Interest as something good is mentioned only when it suits us or when we need to... show Europe. Today we have done everything to this end that no one believes in the Committee of Conflict of Interest, you move Mrs. Oreshkovic, and then it is said that it is a political reckoning, so it turns out that Mrs. Novakovic, who was chosen by the will of the ruling majority and HDZ, is now also back a few months, years is not good, so we are going to destroy to the administrative courts the existence of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. I don't want to talk about media dealings at all, and we're probably like the country at the EU's summit on filed lawsuits against the media by politicians, mainly by ruling politicians, and as we should deal with corruption and point to it. And then we come into an interesting situation, someone doesn't want to apologize for the sins of the past as they are, someone doesn't want a transparent debate about HRT, and even when it's avoided, they don't want to conclude that the litigation against journalists by the HRT administration, but they will have a corruption strategy that will lead to this no longer happening. All that happened about the election of Director Schwebb, and the election of the Supreme Court president and the avoidance of discussions on media judgments, and the avoidance of discussions on why refugees are running across our borders, and the avoidance of how much this country has been robbed and privatised, and the mass of this has gone into obsolescence, we will not be able to say proudly to the citizens of this country who have chosen us and who have paid us to have a strategy, we believe in it, and we believe that in these ten years we will finally change that perception that everything can be bought in Croatia, that everything can be paid, that everything can be sold and even public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66083	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Marin Piletić, that is your third potential warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66084	Col. Jaksic, therefore, insist constantly that members of the ruling furniture are apologized in this assembly. I personally do not consider you responsible when the person who showed up to Marina Lovrić Merzel was fired from the mayor, I do not consider you personally responsible or should apologize when her husband was fired on HRT we know for whose term of office. Don't take responsibility for people who don't have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66085	Time. You used this for a replica, and I'm giving you a warning, and that's your third warning, you're losing your word until the end of the debate. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative of Stipo Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66086	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The breach of Rules of Procedure in 238, not that they insulted the parliamentary representative, but that they insulted all Croatian defenders, all the people who fought for this country by listening to both their left and their right about corruption over the past 30 years. With such thieving, such things that have been done over the past 30 years have offended all those honest and honest people who have fought for this Croatia to create it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66087	Okay, you've told the truth, but you've misused the rules of procedure so you get a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure respected Vice President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66088	Mr. Vice President of HS, I appeal to you to end this entire morning's abuse of the rules of procedure. In fear of responding to the replicas of your HDZ counterparts all morning, they've been putting up damages to the Rules of Procedure by risking themselves to be eliminated from this assembly and that reminds me of this tendency to corruption where people from your party are willing to take taxpayers' money. in a way that they eliminate themselves from political life. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66089	Time. You haven't helped me very much, you've been doing a little bit of doing the same for you. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66090	First I congratulate you on your nerves, and I'll get a warning. Thank you, fellow Mlinaric for what he said and I absolutely agree with him. My colleague Piletić is offended because he is either uninformed or knowingly lying, so we can talk about each individual example of SDP's first to comment on the arrest of Matija Posavec and Stjepan Kovač I was myself and I said if it turns out to be true that I am extremely sorry to apologize, as I have apologized several times for Milan Bandić's SDP shares. I didn't sign his biowaste contracts with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66091	You spoke as well, but unfortunately this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this was more of your replica, so I have to give you a heads-up too. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66092	Thank you, Vice President. Art. 238nd colleague, when you spoke so well and apologized for a certain misdemeanor of your party, so I ask you here on your behalf, you were born in the same 1980s, because you feel the need to apologize for all the evil alliance of communists, and ask me for an apology or perhaps feel or feel the need to apologize that your party and follower of the Union of Communists did not vote for Croatia's independence in this home, so ask me the same excuse for something When I was a minor [[Intruder: Time.]] I don't get it. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66093	And you have misused the Rules of Procedure and you have been warned. Dear Representative Michel Jaksic, please. Please allow me, counselor. I'm sorry. I'm just asking you to allow the representative to hear the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66094	It's not real, so in my debate, I look back at the fact that Ivica Racan apologized for everything that happened in times of communism, and I have no problem saying that communism has failed for some reason. But if you're going to hunt me on it, don't get me and my close family no one was a member of the Communist Party, we could even go the other way, so if we need to, we can also cut down on who he was when he was, so we'll see which side he'll get the percentage of membership in that black Communist party.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66095	Good warning to you, too, 'cause that was the same thing. The answer is again a violation of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66096	I thank my colleague. And I congratulate them for giving up Communism it's great to believe that some colleagues sitting around you haven't given up and who will speak.../incomprehensible/... but I repeat, if we're talking from a generation born in the '80s, then what are you asking me or anyone sitting here for, there are colleagues who were underage Eve Sanader and at the time of 2009, and who knows what year, who and you now for giving up that or if you didn't apologize. [[Intruder: You...]] Why do you insist on stupidity? Let's finish.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66097	A reminder to you, too, because it was a pure replica. Next, we will continue with the debates, followed by a debate between the HSS and RF representatives, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66098	Good afternoon, everyone, I can even say that I'm glad this performance took place before my presentation will be his main theme being all the same. So after the end of the five-year strategy 2015 to '20. We have here a proposal for a strategy for the next period from 2021 to 1930. years, more or less prescribed old strategy. The real question is therefore not what this strategy brings but why the working majority on five-year strategies implemented in cooperation with the professional public, academic community, civil society, public administration authorities with spent money did not produce any fruit. Of course, now the opposition will say so that's because HDZ didn't do anything. In fact, the HDZ, which controls the judiciary, which employs through the link, is setting up tenders, so that it is possible that HDZ is a party accused of corruption, is it not a little conflicting. So how is it possible that we have a situation where, nevertheless, that HDZ is a convicted party for corruption as much as of course, HDZ does not like it, but on theirs, it goes water, puts water on their mill because it disproves the fact that the judiciary is corrupt by HDZ. But with a verdict or no judgment, perceptions of corruption that no MP and MP have missed here remain the same. So people think and are convinced and feel it on their skin that absolutely nothing has changed. Why is that? So because poor material status, social status, loss of social and material rights, increasing availability of health care, public education, job shortages, inability to work, inability to work, did not change the station any indication that they could change, and this will not change this but also any other anti-corruption strategy. And when people say that nothing has changed and that Croatian government is corrupt, then they think about all these things that I've mentioned here. The anti-corruption narrative has defied itself as a standard anti-clienthelist narrative from which it draws its own, its legitimacy most claimants to power. It is about the approach caused by clientelism and corruption that leads to the problematic, individual and group morals of those who have an impact on employment, the allocation of public funds, judicial judgments and the like. So here we have just witnessed such morale evaluations from one side and the other from the opposition and the ruling. So it's about the mere morality that each other doesn't have, and some often suggest that the people do, that our people are so corrupt, and that they can hear it in the subtext, not just politicians, but even the people are prone to corruption, that's how it is in us. The diagnosis suggests that the overcoming of corruption and clientism is such that there is no need for social economic change already enough through the election in the current political framework to replace morally problematic individuals and groups in positions with morally insecure individuals who will not practice or support clientism, nepotism or corruption. The fact that the people don't really trust this narration and don't think it's that simple, that it's enough to replace one person with another is best told by one piece of information that wasn't listed so often here, and that's the percentage of those who go to the election. People simply don't believe that changing one face will make everything better. What remains of these discussions and with this debate I am almost certain that people in front of their small screens will have that conclusion is that they are all the same. People are not entirely wrong, although the first step is to remove HDZ from power, the fact is that anti-corruption policies and that won't say it to anyone from the opposition, I'm afraid, except for me, are not the solution to all the problems but are also corruption and nepotism and clientelism only the symptoms of a deeper problem. All those who wish to change the status of the working majority will still have to change some deeper therefore production relations. Clienttelism and corruption are emerging in Croatia where the only way of hiring is through a relationship, where publicly available services such as health and education are made up of most every year and are really becoming more and more unreachable. But clientelism and corruption of the fact that someone can only be hired through a party card or get to a doctor only through a relationship is only partly the result of moral corruption of clientelism, and much of the consequences of poverty. The fact that we live in the second poorest country in Europe where there is not enough well-paid quality jobs, there is not enough capacity for all available health services, there is no money for social transfers and so on. And now most of those who are very interested in getting involved in these debates on communism and capitalism, the Communist Party and HDZ will conclude and agree that it is only with us, that it is a partner type of capitalism, so to speak. roof capitalism. It is an excellent narrative, an anti-corruption narrative that serves the ruling because instead of changing the real relations and causes of our lagging in our country and our position in relation to the developed countries of Europe, to start taking care of companies of state interest, not to sell out state silver, to invest in the development of technology, scientific research, in industries that have the ability to be export industries, to stop shutting down export industries such as shipbuilding, to encourage industries that bring on other industries, have these multiplier effects on the economy and economic development, they will only promise to be fair, even because even I think even the rulings know that they don't have to be too honest, that they can even accept the fact that people don't think well of them, but things can't change. It is interesting that the perception of corruption has been built for years, and this is what the famous narrative of earrings that is interesting appeared when typical crises in capitalism started with typical consequences on the periphery around 2008. While before that, the social majority had called for the government to close down factories, shut down jobs, privatization theft largely legally possible, around 2008. There's a narrative coming up on the earrings. This is an explanation of the backlogs that occurred after being lost in Croatia in just a few years by some estimates of about 140 and 200,000 jobs. The state faced reduced tax revenues due to the downturn in economic activity, which in the context of the savings policy imposed ideologically and procedurally by international and political centres as the only acceptable response to the crisis meant that by compensating the growth of public consumption and investments that were no longer a solution to public administration employment and public enterprises as a crisis. The ideological attack began to focus more and more on the public sector as such feeding on the division and negative solidarity between workers in the private and public sector workers. There was no longer a problem with economic lagging, but the social Darwinism between entrepreneurs and public and state administration workers was tightened. On the other hand, because of the lack of quality and well-paid jobs, thousands of people have become entrepreneurs and have been forced to self-employment, which means small and medium-sized entrepreneurs on whom alleged economic development rests, although they do not have the strength to lead this development. The entrepreneur is still in Croatia and the driver of Uber because he is a small craftsman hired by Uber for driving, and he becomes and ceases to be a worker and becomes an entrepreneur not because of his will but because of his actual life circumstances. He's actually a worker, but no labour rights, and then it's called an entrepreneur. So the unemployed in us only have three choices. One is emigration which is certainly best and most fortunately chosen, self-employment and fighting for a better position that is mainly acquired by acquaintances, contracts with the state and similar or consent to low-paid exploitation jobs for wages which often places workers in de facto social cases without social rights. I'll explain in the free debate and how this narrative is nicely tied to the mythologicalization of... I conclude, no anti-corruption policy will help the working population to correct their status and these discussions between the left and right here are completely insignificant. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What will improve social status is economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66099	Next is the debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, Honored Representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66100	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The document under discussion certainly has a certain value, at least acknowledges that the Republic of Croatia is at the perception of corruption at 97% among citizens and 73% among businesses, one of the most corrupt countries that shares 63rd place with Lukashenko and Belarus. And this is nothing but congratulation. It is also recognised that the activities so far have not produced results, although we have fallen from 60th place since 2018. Femism is used so that research transperses do not maintain positive shifts. The rest of the text is full of flossules such as the achievement of modern democratic society, the rule of law, strong institutions that enjoy citizens' trust as a cornerstone of the well-being of the entire society. An alibi for actions that serve the impression of fighting corruption such as those in the strategic period has been implemented by educational activities in the field of ethics, integrity, and the prevention of irregularities, fraud and corruption for officials of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts and the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds. This education will certainly help our administration stop participating in corrupt activities. The alibi mentions as many as 17 counties as established by the Anti-Corruption Councils, while the Croatian Community of County has published an anti-corruption guide for officials and subsistence units of local and regional (regional) self-government. It is precisely the greatest crime that is happening in our counties, cities and municipalities, honor of exceptions. In the document, who has the nerve to read it fully can also find a floscule, a strong civil society contributes to an effective fight against corruption and the precondition of a transparent and open society, so it is important to ensure a quality strategic framework for the development and strengthening of the capacities of civil society organisations. Wow. From the available documents, and the Homeland Movement has talked a lot about it, it is clear that the government has also drawn a significant part of the entire sector into a corrupt octopus, sharing billions of taxpayers through various programmes and at different levels, from state to local. The best evidence of that is the civil sector's behaviour in our society. Although the Republic of Croatia is one of the most corrupt countries in the EU and although corruption is perceived as a key problem for our economic and overall development, it is very rare for you to find, for example, that the civil sector is dealing with this topic. But he's very concerned with our hardworking officers who fulfill their legal obligation to protect our country. As his remarks on this document, GONG requested the introduction of video surveillance on police actions by introducing cameras on uniforms and cars. Our civil scene, our officers working for poor wages, are the primary and potential perpetrators of corruption, not politicians or directors of public companies. Although the document itself recognises that the judiciary is named as one of the main sectoral areas in which corruption is perceived. The government has just given the Ministry of Justice the role of holder of the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. If they don't already know or don't want to deal with corruption, then they've provided a way to deceive the public with some kind of successes and results. Instead of using internationally recognised methods of measuring corruption, the Ministry of Justice as an indicator of the impact of the fight against corruption will use the research results of the justice ministry and the administration on the perception of corruption on the Ministry's website. On a sample of cca 3000 subjects, it is very simple to manipulate results. The document often mentions publicly owned companies, and it is said that educational activities should be maintained on anti-corruption measures in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. This will certainly help that the directors of public companies do not have money counters, as they have not had before. A phenomene of growing corruption, like any other problem, can only happen as problems are otherwise solved, recognising and removing the cause, and the cause lies in the fact that the proportion of the public sector in the EU is far the largest, while the share of public procurement in GDP has increased from 13% to even 16.5% in the last 4 years. The state apparatus is so strong that it does not only manage public goods but also determines the winners in the private sector. Just remember how the Ministry of Health prepared and supervised the digitisation of the most ill systems in the Republic entrusted florists and former Sanader's minister. After the Homeland Movement has repeatedly warned about this and after several media inscriptions, the ministry has annulled the tender and again, whoever has been bailing, has pitted. The media and the civilian scene are still silent about it, and the ones caught in the draft are coming up with new ways to draw extra money. The same document points to a very important anti-corruption mechanism, which is the recommendations of the anti-corruption group called GRECO, which since 2000 you will not believe, in this anti-corruption body of the Council of the EU, remember this, whether or not, 17 years ago, Mr. Marin Mrčela, vice-president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, who was otherwise appointed by Mr. Djuro Sesa, in the people known as Đuro Kesa, where the president has been at the head of that body for the last 10 years, while the head of the Croatian delegation in GRECO, Mr. Drazen Jelenić, our former chief state attorney, also a member of one association, the Grand Order of the Croatian Mass Lodge, has been suspended or just three times because he has committed a strict act of conduct or conduct against the fundamental principles of the Ethic Code of State Lawyers and Deputy State Attorneys. Smart enough. And not to mention the new appointment of the director of HRT, it's just another piece of evidence that we're not fighting corruption at all, but we're continuing our practice, as we've been doing in the last 20 years, and probably no one will answer for anything again, and it's going to be, again, who's bailing, pitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66101	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66102	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here, today before us a proposal for a Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period '21-2030. Sir, or at least it should be. The objective strategy can be said that the continuation of the continued implementation of the anti-corruption system in the Republic of Croatia is, after the period of validity of this previous strategy for 2015-2020. The fight against corruption is one of the priority areas of public policy within the strategic objective of an effective and effective judiciary, public administration and management of state property of the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030, which also sets out the priorities of the action of anti-corruption mechanisms. The document that is before us bears the name of the strategy, right at the beginning to explain what the strategy really means, or what it means. The strategy involves, or indicates, action aimed at achieving a specific objective after longer planning, hence the strategy as a general principle document prescribes a way of achieving the objective, taking into account opportunities and threats from the environment and the resources and competences of the organisation. In order to establish an effective and effective strategic implementation framework against corruption, it is necessary to see what we all mean by corruption. Namely, there is no universal definition of corruption, the most frequently used definition prescribes that corruption constitutes abuse of power and position and power for private benefit. Similarly, we can say that corruption is a social phenomenon that has a particularly strong negative effect on the rule of law and trust in institutions, of course, both in terms of economics, democratic political culture and, of course, society as a whole, in other words, having in mind the effective fight against corruption, should include not only public authorities, but also society as a whole, companies operating on the market, civil sector and all citizens. The focus of the public is most often on calling it a large corruption affair, but corrupt behaviour does not depend on the amount of money covered by a particular corruption action, but on the intention of using its position to gain advantage over others, which violates the market balance of stakeholders as well as their equality. In other words, there is no classification of stakeholders of potential corruptive behaviour. It is precisely because of the above recognition, prevention and fight against corruption as a socially unacceptable phenomenon that is conditioned by the awareness of social values and acceptable behaviour in society with a view to achieving public interest. I will briefly look at the institutional framework established in the fight against corruption, and of course we need to distinguish three groups of institutions involved in the fight in question. The first includes those acting in the field of anti-corruption policy formation, which can primarily be included by the Ministry of Justice and Administration as a central authority for the prevention of corruption co-ordinated by the creation, implementation and supervision of the implementation of national strategic and implementing documents. In the second group of institutions, we list those working in the field of prevention of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, first of all I mean the Committee for the Prevention of Interest Conflict, the Commissioner for Information, the Advocate General, as well as a whole series of other institutions. Finally, in that third group, we're counting what's called. Repressive mechanism in which we include Bounce and PN Bounce. I will continue to refer to the part in the strategy that concerns the issue of corruption perception. The perception of corruption is the creation of an atmosphere of corruption in our society, which then serves as the main tool or weapon of individual representatives who, according to their statements, further contribute to this perception. It would therefore welcome the decision of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, which, in parallel with the process of drawing up this strategy, carried out a line of research on the website of that ministry precisely with the aim of obtaining an assessment of the existing state of perception of corruption among citizens as initial and reference results before the start of measures under the new strategy. It is important to note that corruption is a social phenomenon present in all countries and in all segments of human activity. There is also no reference unit to measure corruption, and as a rule, the measurement refers to the perception of corruption in citizens. However, when assessing the rate of perception of corruption, it should be stressed that the results in question should be explained in more detail. Namely, by reference to the survey by 15 December 2020, It covered 3,815 citizens. What should certainly be taken into account is, for example, research relating to the judiciary sector. According to the survey, more than 37% of respondents are certain that the courts and the state's attorneys are corrupt, while nearly 58% believe that the judiciary is corrupt. So here we are talking about the impression, but it is important to point out that a large part of those citizens are not, for example, party to any court procedure. However, they view the same as being corrupt by the judiciary. The question is, why is that? Do we, in this home, at times in our discussions, contribute to such perceptions? Is sometimes quite easy on the label that someone is corrupt, that certain actions are corrupt, that the judiciary is a set of judicial clicks and other expressions that can be heard very often in this home. It is important to note, as part of this strategy, that, apart from the objectives set, emphasis should also be placed on indicators of monitoring the effectiveness of the fight against corruption. One of the performance indicators will be the results of the research mentioned above. In order to monitor the results, it is planned to carry out such research at the end of the period of implementation of each of the planned action plans, so in late '24, '27. and 2030. The next thing I want to point out is the fact I mentioned in the beginning that the strategy is a principle document whose implementation is planned through three-year action plans. However, the strategy also sets out five objectives, strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework for the fight against corruption, strengthening the transparency of public authorities' work, strengthening the system of integrity and managing conflict and strengthening the anti-corruption potential in the public procurement system and raising public awareness of corruption, the need to report irregularities and strengthen transparency, each being accompanied by a series of measures to manage the risks of corruption. In this context, I will also cite the most important proposals for amending the positive rules with a view to strengthening the fight against corruption. First of all, I am thinking about the announced amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act and the USCOC Act. I would say, in fact, that one roof and key law for a more efficient and efficient fight against corruption. Furthermore, there are amendments to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, with an emphasis on increasing the powers of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest that has already been talked about in public, which I will discuss more in my individual debate. Also, with the aim of transparency of work and effective management of the risks of corruption, it has been announced that the law on lobbyists would be introduced as a legal and legitimate profession according to the highest ethical standards. It is also envisaged to amend the legislative framework on the immunity of government members with a view to limiting it. One of the priorities of this strategy is strengthening anti-corruption mechanisms at local and regional level, mainly in the context of strengthening anti-corruption tools in the management of commercial societies owned by local and regional self-government units. In addition, the strategy in question determines further improvement of the regulatory framework in the field of protection of applicants of irregularities to the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Notifiers of Irregularity. The strategy also provides for amendments to a series of other positive regulations, all for the purpose of meeting the above objectives. In conclusion, the fight against corruption, but also the zero tolerance rate on corruption, the base is to lay sound foundations for every sovereign state. Corruption as a phenomenon, as a negative phenomenon in all segments and pores of society has no party membership, no party card, corruption has its name and last name. Corruption is not reserved only for senior officials, politicians and businessmen. Corruption is not judged by the amount of money covered by it, it is irrelevant whether it is 10.000 kuna or millions of kuna, whether it is employment or use of links to obtain a certain service. Therefore, the fight against corruption requires open and transparent access to all of us together without figs in our pocket. Regardless of that, I am sure that this government and the Ministry of Justice and the administration will be based on the previous one, but these new strategies will also have and have all the tools necessary for that, but also the real will. Accordingly, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the proposed strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66103	Next is the debate of the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66104	The chairman, the few MPs and MPs. In the period from 2013 to 2018, I was the chairman of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest, which then for the first time began to act as an independent permanent professional and independent state body. During that period and in this capacity, I have made hundreds and hundreds of opinions about what it means to violate the principle of action, and it seems to me that there have been over a thousand or two to the end of the term of office, and I have also made decisions on violations of the principle of action because the opinions and decisions are two sides of one and the same coin. Not only have I made decisions on violations of principles, but it can be said that I may be their main and ideal beginner and creator of such a way of acting. Among other things, I also made a decision with regard to God Petrova, whom today the resolute minister has politically very cowardly and miserablely tried to rub God's Petrov on his nose. Why do I say cowardly and pathetic? Because in that, the decision mentions injury. 5, breach of the principle of action. As chairman of the commission, I have made that famous and famous decision in relation to Tomislav Karamark, and I must admit that I have even written perhaps the key parts of the reasoning of that decision, and everything that has been effectively established in this procedure has never been challenged by anyone to this day. But I did not say a sentence that the party could not be the hostage of any member's political fate, nor did that say the commission, it was Andrej Plenkovic at the HDZ General Assembly. His words were to expect top standards of transparency, accountability and integrity from modern politicians, a prerequisite for credible political action. Despite these words, however, there might not have been a government fall if it hadn't been for an institutional conviction that was correct, factually and legally justified then by the commission. And as I recall at that time, none of you HDZs stood up for the actions of their former boss now. All of you then hid behind a commission decision without which you would not now be in this function where Andrej Plenkovic is neither, nor would most of you sit where you are sitting now. When Tomislav Karamarko tried to politically rehabilitate today's HS President Gordan Jandrokovic, known for his nickname, Brave, told him there was no going back to the old one. Indeed, Croatia has not returned to the old and it would be completely wrong to compare the rule of Ivo Sanader with Croatia as it is today, today it is incomparably worse because after my term of office, the new council meeting continued with the established and good, good practice of the work of that body, and it also made decisions against Andrej Plenkovic on the same infringements of the principle of action and violations of Article 5. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. And that's when Andrej Plenkovic realized what Ivo Sanader didn't think he was doing, and that's that I can't be independent institutions fighting corruption and I can't tell the independent institutions what a conflict of interest is, and that's not because Andrej Plenkovic wants him to be the only judge and the only measure of all measures and things. With Andrej Plenkovic's arrival in power, the fight against corruption has simply stopped, and political and legal engineering has spent the past 5-6 years sabotaging and euthanasia of key anti-corruption bodies. The old Anti-Corruption Strategy was ineffective and weak just the way HDZ needs it, and this strategy is the achievement of all HDZ fantasies and desires. This strategy lists only empty phrases in which there is no fight against corruption at all. One of the motives and one of the reasons why I joined the bid and campaign for the presidential election in 2019 was Croatia's defeat in the fight against corruption. Since the Borg affair, which began public disclosure a year earlier, it was clear during 2018 that something serious and dangerous is not working properly for our institutions that should carry this fight against corruption on their backs. When I first read the statements of the former Economy Minister Martina Dalic, but also Minister of Finance Zdravko Marić and other Borgians who were given USKOK in the context of informed talks that were held on criminal charges submitted, I was not sure if it was anyone's fiction, whether it was a movie or a script of a crime novel. And just before these statements were published in the media, former chief state attorney Drazen Jelenic, today known as the Mason, realized that the search for journalists for the truth would not stop, so he was forced to admit that these statements are unfortunately authentic and true and that they represent our reality, that this is our public, not just an ugly dream. For the Borg case from day one, I've been claiming to have a criminal component, and I'm saying today. But what is visible with the naked eye, what is common sense crystal clear bodies that should fight corruption do not see or understand. Martina Dalic's statement along with other statements describes to what extent all state power is misused in the hands of a few and in which all ways the leaders of different state bodies are willing to be servants. There is no one in the Borg case who was not involved, from the FINE, who gave the minister unauthorized information about when she was sitting or blocking to the SOA director who was checking out persons who had no authority to verify under the law. Not only was I then expecting an investigation against the Borg, including Andrej Plenkovic himself, but I also expected responsibility and the shift of a whole series of high-ranking state officials. I expected the state to shake, but nothing happened. That doesn't mean my expectations were wrong. The state was supposed to shake then, and it didn't shake because it's not really there. Having a country doesn't mean not only having borders, anthem and a flag. Having a state means having institutions capable of establishing a rule of law and inhaling life by the provisions of the Constitution and the law. And the Borg case has shown that our political life, and that's how legal life works as a farce. In this institutional sense, the state is still unedited and weak, because only in the state of the weak institutions can the law write a secret anti-legislative group and then the same group makes enormous profits on such a law. Only in a state where there is no minimum real control of parliament compared to executive power, laws are passed as the party chief says without anyone asking anything. Only in a country like ours, robbery and abductions happens continuously under cover, with protection and with the blessing of the law, and if they really do it and need it then and with the help of the Constitutional Court. One such decision of the Constitutional Court of 2019, which challenged the powers of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, made it clear to me that, in order to protect political interests and chairs, Andrej Plenkovic would seek to further collapse the weak institutions anyway. If the state had drowned in corruption, we were back in the corruption perception index as well as everyone, by all other indices and criteria on all relevant scales. A young scientist from the Croatian Catholic University said that corruption is precisely the main reason for emigration. However, despite the numerous corruption affairs that followed each other, despite ministers who had to leave the government because of conflicts of interest and corruption, there was no real public debate on the causes and the genealogy of corruption. As a society, we fell into apathy and reconciliation with the existing condition. And then I came up with the idea that within the presidential election campaign, an attempt to open up and launch a topic on which way Croatia should go. Since the president of the state has the authority to propose to the Government to hold a joint session and to consider some particular important issues, I felt that the fight against corruption was just such a topic and the idea was to use this authority of the president of the state to refer a draft anti-corruption strategy to the government at that time in 2019, since it was clear that the Government, with its draft Anti-Corruption Strategy, was late. So then, as part of my programme for the presidential elections, the Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption was created, which I then donated to the Croatian Assembly in 2019, and now as the representative of the 10th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, I also referred the strategy to the legal procedure. But on that proposal, the government said that she knows better, and I agree when it comes to corruption. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66105	Next is the debate of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66106	I thank the chairman. Minister Malenica said today that in the fight against corruption in this strategy, emphasis is placed on raising the level of citizens' awareness of corruption. So, normally, when any strategic document is being done, then some central problem we have is being defined first and then the goal or objectives are being defined from it. So according to what the minister said today, the main problem of corruption in Croatia, according to HDZ and their government, is that you dear citizens, you and your consciousness or how HDZ thinks your unconsciousness. And so the party convicted of corruption told you that it wasn't their fault for corruption, but you dear citizens don't have enough awareness of the harmfulness of what they're doing, so they're doing it until they raise their awareness to a higher level, and they're certainly going to do it with their heart, and that's why they need this strategy. The strategy itself in its objectives and measures reveals either your unwillingness to fight corruption or incompetence for it, so here the government states that the success of the implementation of this strategy will measure, among other things, the perception of corruption in Croatia. Otherwise, throughout the strategy, let me point out that the perception of corruption is a much bigger problem than corruption itself, so the problem is that it is seen, not what it is. So, what the government says is that it will measure the success of the implementation of the strategy, it says that now the starting value of the perception of corruption in Croatia is 94%, but already in 2030 we will be much better because it will be only 80% and then it will be great. For example, HDZ considers success if by 2030. As many as 15% of citizens who face corruption are making this corruption real. That's a great score. This strategy is worth investing in. Furthermore, the strategy highlights the problem of political influence on the Electronic Media Agency, and does not propose at all any mechanism for this political impact on the Electronic Media Agency to be eliminated. Speaking of which, in this document, the government boasted that the rules on transparency of ownership over the media provided a quality system for notifying state bodies and the public about media ownership. So I think if you really have this quality system that informs you about real media owners, I don't know how the Topa Radio case happened to you and 101 that revealed that the person who owns the Top Radio is also the owner of stamps for 24 other radio stations in Croatia. So either you have a good system so you knew it and you still gave him a concession on 101 and made it possible to concentrate on the market or you didn't know it, so you don't have a good notification system? So none of the total institutions here have seen the problem of hidden ownership of the media, but let's move on. The strategy says it will continue, as we are reportedly already in possession, to systematically fund non-profit media by the state and foreign units of local and regional self-government. So I would remind the government and all HDZ representatives here that your government has just expelled non-profit media from the Regulation on criteria for determining users and how to distribute gambling revenues, and then their only real continuous and somewhat independent source of funding has been completely abolished. I've been checking that regulation for 2021. and among the lists of activities or types of activities financed, non-profit media remains listed. The competition from the European Social Fund for Non-profit Media has been delayed for several years. Local media today are in the worst media situation possible and are completely captured by local authorities, which are their only financier in most cases. And so our local media, our local radio stations, have mostly turned into PR agencies for local mayors and mayors. However, this strategy does not say anything. Let's look at national media, no matter how private they were not freed from political influence or political funding. On the other day, the Index portal announced how many million kunas some national media including portals and newspapers are getting from governments and ministries. And there's a new form that I've noticed, and that form is called government conferences. The government is constantly in something according to certain media names of some of its conferences. How much the government pays for that information we don't have. Does the government, through such means of financing the media or paying for their services, influence perhaps how the media advertise, especially given the position in which they are on the market and that they cannot actually survive the market, but this strategy does not talk about it. Let's move forward, public procurement, so public procurement is detected by this strategy as an area, a problematic area for corruption, but also, although the strengthening of the capacity of the state commission is also mentioned, so DCOM is not listed as one of the key things that is problematic in the control of public procurement procedures, which is that DCOM does not have powers, for example self-examination or so on. Unauthorized agreements between competitors in public procurement, no. So what DCOM can do is whether the procedure is respected, whether it was all in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and that's where their authority stops. And of course everything by law and of course the procedure is respected, and you have countless cases and I've been looking at them very often, and I've been doing an analysis of public procurement, where you have a consortium of x that offers more prices and you have another consortium y that makes the offer lower prices, but they forgot to add one of the key documents because when you report to a contest than let's say 100 million kuna it's often to forget to give a bank guarantee, that's what to say is normal. Now these are things DCOM can't question. This should actually be done by the Competition Protection Agency, which is not mentioned in this strategy as if this area is not an area in which corruption should be fought in any way. However, the Competition Protection Agency says that it is precisely such illegal arrangements in public procurement procedures that are the source of corruption. However, they are not given any additional authority in this regard, nor will this strategy improve their position in countering such illegal agreements, the notes of such cases have, in such cases, had the least since they say that, according to the current framework, such cases are the most difficult to determine. So, to conclude, the key problem of corruption in Croatia according to this strategy is not a captured state, it is known from whom, and now it is known by powerful court rulings, it is not the key problem of corruption in this country, nor the fact that all the institutions of this country, even those called independents, depend directly on the goodwill of the great ruler. It's no problem that the state is in the last 5 years. has passed extremely strong centralised procedures in which power is fully concentrated in the prime minister and government. It is no problem, nor is the fact that this government has not implemented, for example, the health reform and through it prevented the actions generated by so-called "the". petty corruption. So you're saying that the central requirement of this strategy is to increase citizens' awareness that corruption is harmful, and not that you should eliminate those situations in public administration that generate this corruption because people don't come to pay the doctor because they're paid extra, but because doctors can't come to a doctor for 2-3 years, they don't come to pay off an officer for some kind of permission because they're paid for it, but because they can't get to a 3rd year permit, and they saw a neighbor come in a month. So these are the problems that you can't see in this strategy. So you're not having a problem with education reform that didn't allow curricula reform, has not introduced civic education and education, none of it is a problem. You are a dear citizen, the HDZ tells you this, you and your unconsciousness about corruption being harmful and thus the HDZ will be next 10 years. deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66107	We now have an address on behalf of the promoter, Secretary of State Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66108	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected MPs and MPs. Here's the need on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and the administration to respond to the esteemed representative Bencic a few things. First of all, this strategy and our goal of continuing the fight against corruption and raising awareness not only of citizens as the colleague said but of all of us at the state or local level is transparency in work. It's not all as black, and it's not all as white as it is here. Many of you, here you are now lifting tiles, were part of the government of the Republic of Croatia, so I'd be happy to answer when we're replicating what you're about to ask me. First of all, we accused the citizens of nothing but the perception of the research we've done, we've really put it public. So, what worries us is that people who have never had access to justice have never had access to the police, to the USKOK, to the law enforcement bodies, or to the judicial authorities, think that the judiciary is corrupt, that the courts are corrupt, that the state's attorney's office is under the control of the state, etc. We want to give this transparency and action plans and laws to citizens the importance that one who has not had access to the court has the right to access it, and also cannot be prejudged that someone has non-transparently done his job. So raising awareness not only of citizens as individuals but also of politicians at local and national levels is our common task. This is a framework strategy, following the laws, several laws through these action plans, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, the Law on Access to Information, the Law on Lobbying and many laws still in place in the HS before you to discuss them professionally and adequately. What's sad and worrying about all of us should be, and I have experience in these assembly benches myself is that today this strategy is very little said about the areas of this strategy, strengthening the institutional and legislative framework for... corruption... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] , strengthening the transparency of public authorities' work, strengthening the ethics system of conflict management of interest, strengthening anti-corruption potentials in the public procurement system, raising awareness of corruption's harmfulness. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's all that's left somewhere else. The drone in the eye is Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, the decisions of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, no tool is taken away by the committee but by the gentlemen of the dear Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest is the court, we have the bodies of the investigation, police, PNUSKOK, USKOK, state attorney's office, courts and all those in charge of taking care of it. About how we fight corruption and the fact that in one year, 12,000 prisoners have passed through the Croatian prison system, 12,000, of those 12,000 60% are investigators who have been affected by various corrupt jumping actions, so that this government does not fight corruption that these investigative bodies are doing nothing and that no one is doing anything but bringing together documents that we must have written overnight. This document has been worked by 70 different experts, not politicians, but by people who deal with this particular area and for those who follow it or do not follow it, do you know them or don't know them, this strategy is part of the NPOO. By the end of this year, we are obliged to bring this strategy together with the accompanying laws that we have prepared in time, and we will withdraw more than 44 million kuna from European funds to put these 5 main areas in a position to bring the laws we are going to make and implement into action. So if we're going to purely politicize there are veterans who have had opportunities in various governments of the Republic of Croatia to say something about this, so fix the situation, so they're not fixed. If we're going to get out of our pockets, who's where the political options are, what they're doing, and how we're going to find them all over the place. And the distinguished representative Bencic who has now left the assembly as a member of a platform, so also If we're going to talk about transparency, we can talk about whether it's okay to talk at a local level, and I'm sorry, that in the City of Zagreb you're walking around town offices supposed to be a parliamentary representative, waiting for conversations with some people allegedly, everything I'm saying is supposed to be what I read from the media, is that transparent, is that okay. [[Sir, I'm here.]] So the saw can turn upside down. I expected you as lawyers to give concrete advice on what needs to be fixed here, because this is a debate, not an indictment. So there are various topics and we will evaluate your ability after the mandate you received from citizens and the will of citizens as you managed the City of Zagreb and what is transparent here. And we see that in the beginning you slipped on very important things that matter to our citizens. And if you're gonna get a chance to fix that, we'll just see. So don't turn the saw on the Prime Minister, the HDZ, you're dealing with yourself a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66109	We have several replicas, the real respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66110	Dear Secretary of State, the perception of citizens is unfortunately that all politicians are corrupt, the ears are doing nothing, they are spending, they are useless, they are putting us all in the same basket, and unfortunately, we are not all the same. So there are those of us who do well, honestly, industrious, etc. On the other hand, some of my favorite politicians, here in my midst, have been so recently, forgiving sins because, let's say, it's only 10,000 kunas of corruption, and not about a million kunas, he's been stealing, but he's given us that kind of thinking to the citizens. So to catch small fish, and not big what we could do and testify that many fierce processes are being carried out for years, ultimately they get judgments in terms of working for the common good, etc. How do you mean by education and raising the awareness of citizens in the first place to change that perception and how do you actually do double standards and then how do you all get zero tolerance for corruption? and citizens and all politicians. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66111	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66112	Dear fellow MPs, this is the situation, so raising perception is our common task. In front of the Croatian Parliament, there are many new laws coming, I mentioned some, let's say one example of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, we already have the law, we are now in the observed irregularities correcting it in a way that people report corruption, that their application, that there is no fear of the employer reporting, fear of the private employer reporting, fear of reporting to officials, local officials, commissioners, that raising awareness, transparency, perceptions that someone will not be punished, that it will not go badly if someone reports it is our joint task. As for some of the procedures you mentioned, it is therefore our job to make the Ministry of Justice and Administration and the Government strong and strong, clear and transparent legal framework, and in courts, it is to investigate authorities in certain situations to assess what is and what is not. Therefore, BUSKOK or the State's Attorney's Office has the means to legally agree in certain situations with those who have found themselves in front of some corrupt work, if that settlement leads to some new knowledge. [[Intruder: Time.]] So for some actions that are much more important than what we just said as a little case, no small cases are all... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66113	Next replica, honorary representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66114	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you were very excited after the debate on behalf of the clubs, and you had the need to say this in advance how you would respond. So let's talk facts. The fact is that the judiciary is on the lowest possible branches regarding the perception of our fellow citizens in general on the subject of judicial corruption. That's, I mean, these are the facts that you both cited and what you're saying, but what worries me further is that when research was done among judges, so research that, among the judges they were supposed to evaluate, evaluate their work and then evaluate among other items of progress, that 55% of the judges said that in the judiciary they were not progressing according to merits, according to work, rather than according to some other elements and similarities. So that's something where the waist said what she thought of herself. How do you evaluate this research? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66115	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66116	Dear MPs, thank you, Vice President, I'm not excited, but I've been sitting here for five hours listening to what you're saying and buying impressions from the debate, so this impression of me may seem like a thrill to you. I took a very special look at you because you were a member of the government at the time of Zoran Milanovic and at the time was the minister of the current cabinet head of President Orsat Milenić and then that perception was high and bad, we can talk about the percentages more or less, all of this is worrying. Therefore, there is also a State Judicial Council as an independent body which, by changing the Constitution in 2010, we have brought all and the State's Attorney's Council to deal with strict proceedings against judges or this other against state attorneys. Our common task is therefore to strengthen the transparent, clear judiciary. It's our joint task. It's not the work of the HDZ government. What bothers me is that you keep throwing away the HDZ pill, the HDZ government, the HDZ. Many of you were ministers, so you had a chance to change something, and what you changed besides what you're saying to me today. I don't know. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66117	The next replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66118	Thank you. So, Your Honor, let me know, how you explain that in the same document you say that the problem in the judiciary is that the procedures of corruption are particularly long and that they are ineffective and that this is the problem, but at the same time, the Committee of Conflict of Interest, you end the basic power to assess the integrity of politicians, and they are fast. So you say here, they're not the courts. That's not how they are, the courts are much slower, so you're going to transfer it to the courts, right? And as for your remarks about the City of Zagreb, I'm just going to tell you this. We didn't choose people who carried bags of 50,000 Euros to Milan Bandić, whom you supported at the same time in the City of Zagreb Assembly And made it possible for him to thoroughly make that city [[Intruder: Time.]] Robbery. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66119	We didn't choose your MPs to walk the city's businesses as a representative and make business decisions, it's number one. Number two, you misread my perception, what you're saying my perception, I find you wrong, that you are not correct in your debate as a lawyer, and that you have made no contribution to the quality of this strategy. You know why? I haven't heard a word about the Law on the Protection of Reporter Irregular Whistlers. I didn't hear anything. Principle of conduct of public duty, principle of art. 4, The Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, is not evicted from the Law. We have done so in principle on the basis of the decisions of administrative courts, the High Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court, and you, as a legalist and a lawyer, should know that we must respect the decisions of the highest courts in the state. We leave the principle, but we give for the task of local levels, all cities, municipalities, counties at government level to bring ethical codes to which the Commission will be able to act on the basis of the codex to be passed on now. It's a big difference in perception of me and you, what you're talking about, you're misleading the public, You're not telling the truth, you're telling the truth. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66120	Time. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66121	So the injury, yes, injury art. 238, so other than the insults you've brought down, you've said a series of false eye, specifically me and my position, but that, that's for another time. However, when you pointed out so harshly that one of the key moments in your Strategy is the protection of applicants of irregularities, so why not protect non-reporters of the veterinary college who has been telling you for a year about the illegalities that have been happening there, you do not get any answers. And he'll get fired there. [[Intruder: Time.]] So why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66122	Time Answer. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Sorry, uh, this was an injury, you got a warning. Next replica, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Listening to today's opposition debate under this Strategy, it is the impression that corruption is only at national level. The problem that is being looked at by central authorities, as if there were no corruption at local levels, you probably know individual examples of what this is about. But what we expected from the new political forces in Croatia, that this transparency, the ethics they advocate, the stricter respect for the law of conflict of interest in the section relating to art. 5. That they're really gonna show themselves. But we've heard, for example, from the city of Zagreb Syntagma, I'm a wolf, and you're a sheep. Do you think this is a contribution to a correct democratic, transparent manner of conduct between a member of the administration and, that is, the chairman of the board of directors and members of the board of directors, who, for a wonderful miracle, has shares in a company that is very close to working with the company as well? On whose... [[Intruder: Time.]] He's got a sheep on him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66124	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66125	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It's all worrying to us. Of course, the person who has to contribute to certain developmental matters, the contribution to this Strategy, the contribution to the laws, gives himself the right to be accused at the same time, to judge at the same time. So for all the problems of political parties represented here in the Assembly, it is the HDZ's fault and the verdict that has been made since certain days when the president was Ivo Sanader. So why would we be responsible for what happened today when we didn't get a chance to decide anything, you understand? Now it's time, okay, you got the election, you run your policy as promised to your citizens. The best poll in the election will be how citizens vote and who they choose. In this case, they chose HDZ and coalition partners. In the case of the city of Zagreb, they chose this platform and that is the will of the citizens. The best poll, it's not perception, it's election. People in the election choose and vote according to their will, and I will not deliberately list some cases that come from the left-hand side, which have won the election after certain problems. Then what do I have to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66126	Time. William Matula, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66127	... Thank you, Vice President. [[Specially enabled.]] Secretary of State, most honestly, this tone, this is not the choice of words I've heard, not just for this short time of year and something I've been in the Parliament, but not before when I've actually followed the meetings of the Parliament, I haven't heard a tone of this kind since the state secretary and secretary's position. A tone like this escapes, or it's completely in the manner of some ministers to speak this way. And at all what topic you're talking about, you as Secretary of State, and now I'm going to ask you, I mean, as an example, here, yes, we are, we're talking about it, I'm not going back to that verdict, but.../incomprehensible/... Top radio, for Stojnica the only option in the city of Zagreb to get a liberal civil option, left option, green option Radio, you didn't let that happen. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66128	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66129	Well, Your Honor, I've come here to defend the Strategy, to present Strategy 2021-2030. I didn't come here to sit like a tree in front of the government, like a chair, so I couldn't say anything. I answer to your tone and the way you answer the same. Your colleague here raised her voice and waved her hands the whole time. I'm doing the same thing now, you understand. Why can't I answer the same way we do? So why would I be responsible or our government for something that has nothing to do with us? So you can, we can, and we can't. So we will give you a clear and loud answer to what it is. As my other colleagues respond, it's their personal matter, and your personal perception of whether I'm decent or rude. I think I'm correct, I'm responsible for the Strategy, I'm not talking nonsense, and I don't want to pass it on to anyone other than the one who gave me the trust, which is the citizens and the government of the Republic of Croatia, and you can consider it a violation of the Rules of Procedure and an injury I don't know what. I'm as decent at borders and levels as you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66130	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of William Matul.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66131	This is it, thank you. Paragraph 238 of the Rules of Procedure. I have nothing else to say, and not just me, disrespect, sometimes insult, not just me, but the representatives who spoke here. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66132	And that's how they communicate with each other. You heard these other MPs speak, and then it became normal in this House obviously. Well, I won't give you a warning because you didn't replicate, you just pointed to your opinion, but I warn you that's how most MPs communicate. Okay. The next replica is the respected representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66133	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we both come from Slavonia and it is already known that there have been many, many emigrations in Slavonia and that of young families of professional quality personnel. Can you really say with certainty that the reason for evicting and achieving better material conditions, but that the reason for the corrupt system of values has not been poisoned? Today, in the media, we've been reading an affair that weighs $13 million, so whose party is she?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66134	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66135	Honorable MPs. I said that the government of the Republic of Croatia is fighting corruption together with this strategy and all laws. Any corrupt act, if it is a corrupt act, and we believe in the independence of the judiciary on the presummation of innocence, allow the independent judiciary to carry out independent proceedings. What our goal is this government has not protected anyone by name and last name, our goal is to be transparent, to pass laws that will be a tool to the DORH, USKOK, police and all those who need to conduct investigative actions. We can't point a finger at either person or person b until that person gets the right to answer what is possibly allegedly being accused, so we need to be careful here as legalists both as advocates and as lawyers. Everyone has the right to defend themselves, to prove whether he's guilty, not guilty, whether or not he was or wasn't, that's not exactly what political debates should be about. Let the independent procedure be conducted for everyone, whether they're left, whether they're right, whether they're there or you don't care anymore, it's important to be all transparent and fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66136	The next replica honours Vice President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66137	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I agree with you that the judiciary needs to say its final word, but when that happens then we enter into a phase of denial and acting as if it never happened. And now you explain to me how you think as a government to strengthen the fight against corruption, to work as you have stated one of your objectives in the strategy itself to protect applicants of irregularities and whistles when we still in Croatia have a situation that precisely those who report corruptive actions, such as Mrs. Whistle in Kutina who reported that she is being pressured to hire HSLS and HDZ what is happening to her, where is she today? Thrown out on the street. And that's not going to change with one adopted paper or any strategy unless we all go from ourselves. And the fact is that even after Sanader of this government left half the government in the past term because of serious suspicions of corruption. He needs to get away from himself and be self-critical.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66138	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66139	It would have been fair if you'd taken the honourable MPs away from you and come to us. Also in the government of Zoran Milanovic, there were several ministers who had to leave the government on suspicion of corruption. One minister, I won't mention the name, the tourism minister was arrested immediately after the government lost the election I don't know what year it was an SDP official. And a lot of officials I don't want to say by name right now are these people, too, I don't want to, have the right to defend, so they have the right, let them all have the right to defend. As for specific cases, imagine if we had all specific cases, so if you're okay, and the vice president read the DORH report for 2020. And that part about BUSKOK and jumping objects, how many percent of the convictions were carried out by procedure, were settled. So, sound cases, the names of several people are throwing the wrong picture at the whole as impartial and independent work of the judiciary, that's a big problem. So, this media The construction of certain names destroys the whole image and reputation of the judiciary, there's your problem. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And I'm not gonna talk about names, and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66140	Time. Let's move on with the debates of individual debates, the next is respected MPs, Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66141	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Politics is perception, and our work as Parliamentarians is the same perception, and when our work of parliamentary deputies is evaluated, so we evaluate citizens through different polls we get the lowest score, the lowest score, and not because we don't do it, but because it's the perception they have about us. There's one sport that's been specially developed in this assembly, which is called mud-popping, and then it starts mud-popping, and we're all mud-popping, and nobody knows, and it doesn't matter who started it anymore, but in the end we're all muddy. And that's something that's the task, I'm the whole task of all of us Parliamentarians, mission and ruling because when the answer is, so are you, and so am I, so is someone third, and then someone fourth and finally we're colleagues and colleagues, don't forget all the mud because as you say but I'm not. No, because the perception of the public and the citizens who chose us, those who are the most persistent look at us say so they're all the same to you, they only argue in the assembly. Well, when you're trying to prove you're not the same, it's impossible. Or another sport that when someone wants to say something about you, they usually say that when you're gone or when you stop directly for a pay phone and they say now tell me what you have to say, then the papers are left. But I'm still going back to this topic, something that I've asked as a question of the minister and something that I think is extremely important if we really want to say okay, corruption is something that we have to fight, which is the Law on lobbying and lobbying or whatever you want to call it. For what reason? There from the time that the Prime Minister was so mentioned, Ivo Sanader, what everyone gets sore on one side when it's mentioned, but we all remember the scene when he was a collective cryer because Ivo Sanader was leaving, now no one remembers him, but what there is, that's our destiny, then for the first time I saw that he was the Lobby Act. I have to admit, during my government where I was sitting, the same thought was given to the law on lobbying and now again, and in this previous strategy there was a law on lobbying and now the law on lobbying again. Let's make it clear whether we want it or not we want it or we want lobbying to stay absolutely below radar and that lobbying deals in the way it shouldn't be. He says what's lobbying? It says lobbyist action or action aimed at affecting the decisions of the executive and legislative authorities in order to affirm the particular interests of privileged stakeholders. If it is non-transparent in the public, it is necessary to obtain a stigma of suspicious activities with corruption potentials. We have a lobbyist company that counts about 50 members. I've had my chances, and I've tried, and I've come up with this bill of law that they've made. So since 2008, we have one society, we have about 50 people in that society, we have about 450 different participants who offer lobbying services, these are today defined as consulting services, we have actually one whole industry that is in the gray zone. Which is next, so it can be the cause of corruption again. So what we should be pushing for transparency should be advocating absolutely that, if the registers were public and I looked a little at what other EU countries have or have other countries outside the EU. They don't all have laws. They have a different definition. But what's the key? The key is to have a register open, public, available, transparent those who lobby and behind that once a year report for what and how they lobbyed. So again, it is in this strategy of the Law on Lobbying, again, is the theme that will be, the Minister answered me that the appointed working group is appointed and that the law is expected, because that law also has that one important element that is related to the law, about the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and that is that period of cooling that is always a very, very serious period in which it will be defined, but since I have passed the time, and the other Mr. Sanders has not seen me stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66142	Replica, respected representatives of Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66143	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you spoke of the perception of our citizens, something like that I spoke a little before and in the replica. And here's an example of what a difference can be between perception and the real thinking of citizens. We have seen that according to an online survey, the perceptions of citizens that here is health care like being put in the first place by a major corruption crisis of 33.5%. On the other hand, you have a Eurostat survey where in the last 12 months 65% of doctors or hospitals, 95% of them claim that they did not have to pay extra or give a valuable gift to a doctor or pay for a favor or donate to a hospital. So perception is one thing, and what we all do together or we have to do is a whole other thing, and then we're just going to have a real state and a prevention or a solution to corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66144	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66145	Very nice fellow Maric. So we have, and when we come to this pay phone with a different expression, someone's talking like that with their hands I won't say don't get me wrong with the grill, with energy someone's much calmer. Often one who is calm and who speaks quietly below the tone says a lot more severe things than those that are very this somehow I would say stronger in their, in their elements. And it's not more convincing than the one who's louder, but perception is really something else, but what we all have to do as parliamentary deputies, but every time I hear it and now it's now what Secretary of State Sapalic said has become mantra. You attacked, so we responded, we had to answer, we're all muddy at the end. So that's what I'm saying, and all the time it's through this government right now. That mantra, you were attacking ours was just a reaction. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66146	Next replica, the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66147	... It is surprising in that sense that we are really used to it, I was convinced that the gentleman in the position of state officials is unlike the officials for whom I even understand when he brings them, but if this is the new HDZ, it is this new HDZ that makes HDZ President and Prime Minister need no need, I understand, now I understand why HDZ won't apologize. [[Specially enabled.]] But a lot of citizens would have meant a lot to them if they were just about corruption, for everything he said. And it's not because he was doing it that would be a sign of a new HDZ, and this, this doctoring it's actually a new HDZ from President Plenkovic. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66148	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66149	Thank you very much, colleague Matula. So this is just, this is nothing by chance, so it all has its own, its own reasons. After, in the past term, two years later, the prime minister came and did not, and the practice became that he did not answer the question of parliamentary deputies as the parliamentary representative asked him, but as he thinks he was responding to this parliamentary representative, what he thinks about the issue, what he thinks that MP or the representative is stupid or smart, as he is trained, how much his party is on the percentage, and then, so did the ministers, and so did the secretary of state. Now it's only crucial whether the prime minister chooses ministers according to the model or whether they all become such ones to court the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66150	The next replica is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66151	Here, colleague Mrak-Taritash, I'm glad you touched an important lobbying segment that no one has mentioned yet, I think, before you. We here often talk about corruption that many are not really aware of, that, as we like to say, developed capitalism, is a matter of everyday practice. So in American lobbying circles, there's a practice called the Revolving Door. So the revolving door literally means that a man from the management of a successful company ends up in the ministry. We, for example, called Minister Maric for this. I don't think that's a good thing, we probably won't agree, I think it's actually 2.0 corruption, it's corruption that's legal and where lobbying groups that have a lot of money, energy and time actually change laws for their own benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66152	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66153	Thank you very much, colleague Peovic. I hope that we will get in this summation of the Parliament an opportunity law on lobbying that will come to the table, that we will have the opportunity to discuss it and the opportunity of what we open all the time the story, we are all here sitting officials. He's also a state secretary, he's not an official, to correct my colleague, Matulu, he's the secretary of state, so the term of office ends. After that term, I think it's incomparably better to have a law on lobbying and that we know after the president of the state stops being president of the state, that he, therefore, had his contacts, benefits, I think he's using it for the public interest, but that's to be defined because, we've had in foreign affairs, we're talking about a special kind of diplomacy that must be for the development of our economy and this time of cooling, which you can do and what you can't do Once it becomes very important to define. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66154	The next individual debate is the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66155	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Not all days in life are good, there are better, there are worse. Both in everyday life and in political life. What has been experiencing our opposition for the last two days in fashion would be called a shame. Why? So because when you feel like you have a theme and you come to a debate with such a subject, and then you fall apart or you don't know how to answer, even on a good offer that we made at the beginning, fellow Habib, let's talk about the Strategy, let's not use any judgments or individual cases, but let's do some Greek-Roman style. They opted for the dirtier part, for the dirt, and then here today, they say we're all muddy and that's a fact, unfortunately after this debate. The media sees this, down there doesn't care, they've wrapped the cables, he's probably gone. It is up to us to discuss and discuss the Strategy, one frame on 57 pages that has its own quality, no matter how much we try it, this one, derogate or say that something is wrong. But somehow always in our subconscious, especially on the opposition side either, let's insult them, let's tell them they're all the same, let's tell them they're like this, let's tell them they're like this. And unfortunately, they didn't have a good time, you see. They're simply without energy, they don't have the moment that brought them together Thursday night, they're simply beaten by that festival that yesterday after they got all 55, even rarer today, and of course, when we picked up that cover this morning and those who were the most hot in the fight against corruption, they just went away. It's gone. Look. And that cover says a lot. Especially about one party. It's not just this story. Let's do it on the cover, so there's something behind it. But everyone would look at someone else's garden, they'd all talk to someone else. When it comes to them, there's no corruption. So is the SDP, and so is this team from Zagreb, etc., etc. And what are we witnessing? To conclude colleague Dark that politics is perception, that it's not work. That fighting corruption is perception, that it's not work. That fighting is on any other field, actually perception. I love my picture, I don't care what we do. This is what plagues this House here and the perception of this House in the Croatian people. Perception, who created it? On Thursday evening, perception created an opposition, united around his colleagues, and all of this fell apart within 2 days and today this document that offers improvements, which speaks of 95 measures, about 3 important laws that we will discuss in the future. On action plans, on the revision of each document in observed periods, every 2 or 3 years. Nothing, we don't have an addition to that. We make two judgments here, and we say, I'm a commissioner, i.e. as president of the Committee for Conflict of Interest stronger than any Croatian court. When I write, what falls in court, it's stronger, because of me the politicians were leaving, and that's what bothers us, Mr. Secretary of State. Are we going to get a law on conflict of interest that will finally put people there to do their job, because if I remember just one show and a statement that's recently been made, says the current president, on one commercial television, I have 200 articles per article that I'm not interested in. What kind of messages are these? What are we dealing with? Those aren't easy statements, gentlemen. If you have an object, go ahead and do your job. Everyone would only deal with the strongest politicians, they would judge and create their political careers, as well as those on HRT who became politicians, so they came here to teach us lessons. This distinguishes the responsible from the irresponsible, and it is up to us to bring in this Strategy and to do what we are asked to do and to determine whether we have made mistakes in those 10 years, if we do so, please choose to correct them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66156	The first replica, the esteemed representative of Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66157	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Here we witness constantly, all day long today that the opposition is constantly dealing with the past, constantly pushing us in time past, far, far from grasping, to deal with the present, and even less with the future. Obviously, they realized that this government really has a zero degree of tolerance for any form of corrupt activity and that it is through this Strategy that it is trying to create a legislative framework so that these potentials of corruption in the future can be even more and less, i.e. reduced to a minimum. And that's why they don't want to talk about the facts, or something that's waiting for us, and that's why we all have to strive to get us back, I don't know, 20, 30 years ago, like it's going to solve our problems, like they weren't even there at all. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66158	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66159	Thank you, dear colleague Shashin. There is a difference, therefore, between the ruling and the opposition. We are here to offer policies and implement them. They are, very little, here and there critics, a certain detail, but there is no integrity, and that is why what is happening to them is happening to them, let's say in Zagreb where they can offer policies. We want civic education, we don't. We want to cancel, I don't know students, disabled scholarships, we won't. We want to sell the business premises, we won't. We won't give Pripu to the purity, i.e. Waste management, we will. That's the difference. So, you see if you know anything or you can, and what happened today in Split, again, one party, the center had its own mayor. Who answers the front page with the first item on the city council, disband yourself, not me. Disengage yourself. It's like they're not chosen for each other. So total misunderstanding is politics and work on perception.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66160	The next replica is the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66161	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Boric, Secretary of State. Speaking of differences, have you noticed or am I the only one to notice this huge difference that some say when defining government officials? On the one hand, it is allowed, on the other hand, to insult the Secretary of State, who, by the way, is elected on the list as a parliamentary representative, and on the other hand, when the Secretary of State answers that question, was verbally attacked for diversity in opinion. Is that right, did you notice that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66162	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66163	Thank you very much, colleague. I notice it every day. You can't even be around them without noticing them, in a way that's always negative. I really can't talk positively about anything, about any law. And they expect any poll to give some percent more of what they get, these are so miserable percentages that simply those who work on perception, where one man, one vote, one party, simply choke that media space, and basically there's no value, there's no policy that follows. And then it's normal for them to insult any minister and official who comes here and when you just say something to them, we should all just go to class with colleagues of Kovac, up to Čakovec, learn how to do it. Because this was bad both yesterday and today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66164	Followed by a replica of respected representatives of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66165	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, fellow Boric, here I am about the perception you spoke of and colleagues before me. As the Strategy stands, it says corruption as a phenomenon is impossible to measure. As a rule, measurement refers to the perception of corruption in citizens. So, not any opposition, but with all our citizens. And our citizens later, despite the Fimi-media verdict, said after a week what they thought of our stranger. Rating means HDZ is 27.3% and then only far, far to 16% We can, and then behind it only SDP and MOST at 6.8%. Therefore, the perception of the opposition is not the perception of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66166	Answer. What an injury. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66167	I mean, in the replica, the co-worker didn't stick to the Rules of Procedure, and the poll came to the Croatian Radio Television where you chose the director the other day.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66168	This is your third warning, so you're losing your right to the end of the debate on this point. Third warning, Mr. Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66169	Here's to answering my colleague's line. Unfortunately, it is unnecessary for colleagues to come out of the debate at such findings that the director is elected and the poll is the same as it is. They just don't admit it sometimes, it doesn't even matter a percent, some trends that are visible simply show you the polls. If MOST is bad and it's destructive, he's falling, and that's what my colleague Grumoya knows. But you simply can't call them to account, because they answer only to themselves and work on what Mrs. Dark may not have said, they're working on perception, they don't care about this fight against corruption, they want perception to come down to this corner or this part of the Assembly in that fight. They don't hunt them, and when they catch themselves in it, we see that there aren't any colleagues here today, we see that there aren't some people who are marked by some kind of activity that could be classified into that category, they just disappear at that point, and they would keep on talking about it, but these elections were lost in 2011 at that one perception.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66170	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Marija Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66171	Article 238 demeaning of parliamentary representatives and Croatian citizens. Kola Boric here is trying to convince us all about the trends of some wage surveys which should therefore be shown to him that if you are convicted of corruption, then your rating will grow, because this is supposed to be what happens to HDZ. So the more corruption, the bigger the percentage in society, so who can you convince this fellow Boric?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66172	Okay, you used this for replica, you get a warning. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66173	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. I'd say you actually made a good point. I was really hoping that we would discuss here a document called the Strategy, a strategic document so to prevent corruption for the period 21-30, if nothing else that we will hear from the opposition some quality, constructive proposals, which we amend, which is complemented, which are the legislative proposals they propose, but unfortunately nothing. And how many times have we, not over the past week, but months, since the beginning of this call to the Parliament, heard that they were talking about corruption, about the problem of corruption, where all corruption in all the pores of society is, and today as we discuss this document, they are gone, they are sick. So there's no choir singing from last quarter, there's no selfie, there's nothing, just torture on the left.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66174	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66175	Thank you very much, fellow Habiban. That's why I said there are better and worse days in political life. And this is really for them yesterday and today, embarrassing, total. So, they didn't get along, they just don't have this cohesive character between them as they're acting out, and even Nikola can't do it right, and you just have this kind of discussion in these situations. What we see, the government's activity and we propose. Maybe this lobbying bill should be called the Mediation Act. We heard that the mediation has its effects in the City of Zagreb and that when you gather there, it doesn't matter where you came from, whether from the market, whether from the Parliament, you can offer certain advisory functions. And that corruption is not by fellow Matula, there's nothing there, as long as they're nothing. Anyway, perception, that's the main message of today's debate, as I understand it, just look one way, don't look at us, we're so bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66176	The next replica is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66177	I would warn, if the percentage in the elections or polls is relevant means only 46% of the people come out, it seems to me that the percentage of those who decide to absorb from the elections is quite large and important and that it gives an answer to the question of what the Croatian people thinks about all this. But let's turn the saw upside down, let's say that you're right, so the problem is just perception of corruption, and not corruption, so we can say that it goes in favor of rulings against HDZ, or that the director of allegedly the regime's HRT is, I'm quoting you now, what I'm trying to do in that set up in the ear, so apparently the regime's HRT brings in, and let's say that the judiciary is independent. So what's the problem, colleague Boric, why our people don't have jobs, why our people can't get to health care, why can't our children no longer be educated in that extent and in those places where they've been educated before, why do our young people have to leave the country to get a job, why do our pensioners dig in garbage cans?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66178	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66179	Thank you very much, colleague Peovic. I don't have that opinion about the country I live in or the people I live with. I simply don't experience that our children have nowhere to be educated, that they don't have enough universities or colleges that they want, that they don't have certain opportunities, that they don't have health care, and that's that difference in view. Whether citizens, when we talk about polls, will see you as a serious politician, who reaches up to 0.7% as a party, because you are in fact a party, I don't know which members, you simply have a conflict of parties that have a structure and rules and parties that are individuals, without any rules. Maybe there's a mistake, maybe there's a problem, maybe there's a need to make improvements. There's a party that doesn't go to elections when they lose all living choices of any level, they don't just come out. These individuals don't allow anyone to do anything with them, simply, and then it happens like this Split, where the mayor with his powers comes and says disband you, no, which I would disband, no. Just you. Because obviously they have problems and they don't do the problem they're chosen for, and then the perception of a colleague is dark in everything. [[Intruder Ante Sanader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66180	Next is the individual debate of Vice-President Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. There was a contribution the other day, I think in RTL Direct, about a convicted cocaine dealer carrying 553 tons from South America, I think, in Croatia. He fell along with his group, he was convicted, as he claimed himself, in a short period, it seems to me that it was not even a month, he said, at the order of Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, because the same case was supposed to be a successful fight against drug trafficking. And in those 17 years, he was sentenced to 21, spent his life in prison and graduated from law school. And now he's going to devote his life to fighting drug trafficking, but also to improving prison prisoners' conditions. Why am I saying this? And because you are constantly wondering why this debate, on the side of the opposition, on your proposal for a Corruption Prevention Strategy since 2021. Well, because when we talk about something, it doesn't matter what we talk about or who we talk about. And logically, in fact, when you propose a strategy to fight corruption, that, and even the average man, it seems sometimes a little funny, as a colleague here said on behalf of the club, and sometimes tragically. But, as for this prisoner, there's a chance for everyone. For one who knows best the system of corruption, which in some way established it in Croatia, and driven many young people from Croatia who went to look for their happiness elsewhere, and also for the rest of us who stayed, and every day we witness the affairs, we also hope that you, not to be a repeatist, but to show through this fight against corruption that what you created, you know how to deal with it and fight to eradicate it. Now let's do this. This is not any strategy to prevent corruption since 2021, because I think this is the 10th month of 2021, and you're just a year late. The previous strategy ended, it expired in 2020, but well, if something is late, if something is not done in time, if there is sincere desire and political will, it can be compensated, we will see. But I still don't think there's any political will in you, so here's why. In this proposal, the Strategy, as one of its objectives, states the strengthening of the system of integrity and the management of conflicts of interest. Sounds great. Great. The conflict of interest is the source of corruption and the fight against conflicts of interest is one of the main tools in the fight against corruption. But on the other hand, at the same time as you propose this goal, your government, your same HDZ, writes a new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in which it does not wish to build up an obligation that officials must adhere to the principles of action, namely that they must act with honor, fair, conscientiously, responsibly, impartially, safeguarding their own credibility and dignity of their entrusted duty. Here's one illogicality and unbelief. Example two. In the strategy for the objective of raising public awareness of corruption, the need to report irregularities. We saw how Mrs. whistler from Novska ended, which reported pressures on the employment of HDZ and HSLS. On the street. Ishamarana, from corruption for the first time, from pressure to do corruption, the second time she reported the same corruption. Also, as you continue to raise public awareness of corruption's harmfulness, we saw after the long-standing tape, the HDZ trial for Fimi-media ended, the millions stolen from the state budget, millions must return to the State budget, but as the HDZ president and his abdominals say. He says we won't apologize. The opposition hysterizes, I win the election and do not intend to pronounce sentences of apology for HDZ's sins. So they are again, those who pointed to corruption, for HDZ hysterical tyrants, not Democrats, despots, and HDZ is pure as tears, even though they are short of millions. That's nice. Another proof of why this is unbeliefable, illogical, and why you are not trusted. Example three, strengthening transparency, openness of the work of the public authority. When we Parliamentarians ask parliamentary questions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for answers, we wait for months, even though the deadlines for delivery are 30 days. When the Committee of Conflict of Interest asked the government about the way of the HDZ delegation to Finland's government plane and the state spending, Prime Minister Plenkovic told them, I will not deliver anything to the Committee for Conflict of Interest anymore, we drew what it was about. Then how do you think citizens come to the answer? Not at all. There's still a third illogicality. The next objective is to strengthen the anti-corruption potential in the public procurement system. Great. Until you see the new Rehabilitation Act, where they wipe out what? It is just a public procurement obligation and they are opening a polygon for a new set of corruption in Croatia over the back of people who are Lost homes in an earthquake. [[Intruder Furio Radin: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66182	Thank you very much. Mrs. Selak-Raspudic, stay, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66183	My colleague the Voice, I'm really worried about something you said. So, you called your colleagues from the HDZ recidivists. It's a compliment to me when I talk about them. Because you know what's going on with the relapsers, in order for someone to be a relapser he has to do something, then stop doing it and then do it again. And when we talk about HDZ in the context of corruption, maybe you'll convince me, but I don't see that break. So she would ask you for one final diagnosis, do you think it's a relapse or perhaps a chronic incurable disease, when it comes to the relationship between HDZ and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66184	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66185	I wish it were different, but I think my comment, the answer to your replica is exactly that TBF there duh doesn't help us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66186	If you've been singing, we can move on. Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66187	Thank you very much, fellow Voicer, I have listened truly. And you say it's not about what's said, it's about what's said. And now that I, here's a couple of examples, so since you're always looking at us and we're always bothering you. Maybe something in your ranks, if that's okay with you. [[Sabina Voter: So which one am I going to look at?]] Okay? You're a member of the presidency. You've probably made some moves to get rid of these people. Here I read recently, says SDP's director of the municipal society in Kalina Municipality, I sold myself a utility car, and the former head of the company that was removed, your member, the SDP, and the president of the county SDP, sold him 2.5 thousand irons. Have you replaced this gentleman who was brought to Dubrovnik, who has kept for himself the fees for preserving jobs in this Coronus crisis, no, have you replaced anyone, or this gentleman who is still the vice president of a parliamentary committee, and recently removed his immunity on request, OLAF, not the State's Attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66188	Thank you, Mr. Boric. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66189	We are, can we? Well, we are often, among other things, the subject of Croatian printing and the debate in space because, among other things, we are doing what is often unpopular in the parties, and we are cleaning it in front of our doorstep. I'll just remind you of Ms. Marina Lovric-Merzel, the moment she did what she did, she hasn't been a member of the party since, or acted on any duty. Mr. Sauha also, Mr. Grgic also, yes, I am a member of the presidency. And you know what the difference is? Which is why your Gabriela Žalac has fallen in and investigated for the sale of software for 13 million kuna serious doubts about setting up a tender, and OLAF has been scrambling around that ministry, is no longer a minister, but she is still a member of your presidency, and that is why we are not all the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66190	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. You said, we don't recognize the principle of action, it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66192	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, we don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66193	Excuse me, you said that we, as HDZ, do not recognise the principle of action. That's not true. You obviously do not recognise the rulings of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. As regards the principle of action, the Registrar himself explained in his statement that through the ethical code, it would also be discussed in the future how it would be treated with ethical codes. As for you and your advocate for fighting corruption, and imposing tags on us as corrupts, so I'm going to ask you did you forget that your Minister Violic was ironing a bank card for her own personal needs? Have you forgotten that your officials took the bus to the Committee of Conflict of Interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66194	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66195	Interesting how you are today extracting examples from the Government of Zoran Milanovic who neither of them is a member of the SDP, you have now mentioned a minister who is a member of the party that is your coalition partner, just before the IDS member. Let's get back to the beginning. So you have a fetish to break up independent institutions in Croatia. And it's no newspaper, you've been doing it with all the lawyers, you've tried to work with the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, you're doing it with the media, you've got a fetish on it. And while any independent institution remains beyond your boots, you will not stop, and therefore do the law as you do. You wanted to push that law in the last term, so you gave it up, that's sad. And here, please, as a member of the ruling majority to suggest that we, for example, bring the ethical code here to the Parliament, MOST has already proposed this long ago, I will be the first to support you as Vice President, I am confident and the entire opposition. Run something, we'll support you in good things, but don't sell us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66196	Thank you. Mr. Matula, not ma'am. Injury of the Rules of Procedure by whom? Here you go. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66197	Thank you, Chairman. A colleague injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, disdaining us as advocates by proving that we are tearing down all institutions. It's not like that, pal, I'd really like to be rational and act like we're collegiate, envious, talking the way it is, envying the citizens who listen to us. I'm just saying, when you attack and label, then be ready to look in your backyard.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66198	Thank you, thank you very much. It was a replica, you have a warning. Let's move on, it's Mr. Matula now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66199	I would like to thank the Honorable Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Representative of the Voice. It is mentioned in the Strategy to improve the Whistle Act, of course it would be necessary, however, only one example now from the local level. Journalist, I don't know if you know it, that's what I want to ask you, and everyone else, journalist Ivo Anzulovic, because she was investigating, journalist and activist, the situation about the strange suicide of Cynthia Palme in Virovitica, and she wrote two of the graphics, I don't know if you know that she's just been sentenced to a year in prison because of that, and there's nothing else about the mayor, no one is questioned, nothing, about the 17 million kuna, for two sentences on Billy, a year in prison. She's been convicted recently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66200	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66201	No, I didn't know that, however, it is known that where HDZ is in power, these are the most underdeveloped parts of Croatia. That money girls on the side, get legs, from very often in some party, friendly, godmother pockets, and I mean, I've acted long in one of those cities myself, it's Zadar, where what I mean, I can already say, I'm not going to exaggerate when I say it, even though it's going to be angry with many on this side of the Assembly, that it's actually a synonym for the corrupt management of a city, even a mob.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66202	Thank you very much. Mrs Grozdana Peric, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66203	Article 238 esteemed colleagues, HDZ has been in power for 30 years in the city of Zadar and is neither undeveloped, however, developed city, developed County, therefore, do not label everything in the same way. And the fact that you have animosity to everything that's HDZ is your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66204	Thank you, Mrs. Peric, the warning, of course, was a replica. Mr. Bauk, replica. Is that a replica? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66205	Thank you. At the first SDP convention, a historical declaration was adopted whereby the SDP, as the legal successor of the Croatian Communist Union, considered its moral and political duty to apologize publicly to all those who, for political reasons, have been wronged, done harm or injured by the act of the authorities in the post-war time and period of action of the Alliance of Communists. Racan's border as a statesman did not need a final verdict to at least make a declaration about what others were doing, 80,000 of which ended up in HDZ afterwards. Well, maybe we should apologize for the HDZ thing. Therefore, it is very clear that your HDZ colleagues, regardless of what citizens do not exactly punish for it, will need an anti-corruption declaration as set out in the model of what statesman Ivica Racan did, not to act or at least to behave as small Balkan chickens today, who do not want to admit what is obvious to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66206	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66207	Comrade Bauk, you did not really replicate to me, but you replicated this part of the Assembly, referring to this injustice that one part of the former members of the Communist Union, who went to the SDP and officially fenced and apologized for all that had been done in the previous regime, and the other part of the former members of the Union of the Communists, the majority part that went to HDZ never did so, so it is no wonder that they did not apologize after what was actually proven, that we were, in fact, the only country in the European Union where the prime minister, but not only the prime minister, but the entire political party, who received the confidence to do everything that the citizens lived better, and the same impoverished citizens, were pillaging themselves, that she would fill her party register and thus ensure that she remained in power. Here's the tragedy. It means nothing from an apology. Everything changes, just some good habits in HDZ never change, bad ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66208	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, and then a lot of people thought there wasn't so much... But it doesn't matter. [[You don't understand.]] Looks like there were millions of them. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66209	I thank Mr. Vice President, no one in HDZ here has robbed or kidnapped or placed in his own pocket. Mrs. Glasovac insulted us all HDZ representatives, injured Article 238. I'd like her to apologize to us now for what she said earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66210	No, I don't. You'll have to get a warning because it's a replica. And now you have no more replicas, and I no longer have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and Mrs. Maria Selak Rasudiæ is up. Please don't argue with me, but yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66211	My colleagues and fellow MPs, I will not waste my words on connecting HDZ and corruption because enough has been said in recent days, enough has been said today, and most of all has been said by the Supreme Court so that you have a label that you will never be able to get rid of. I'm going to commit myself to something completely different in this presentation. I am aware that we are a legislative body and that we are making regulations here that will overcome our individual fates and those of one's mandates in power, and I am going to talk here about a concrete anti-corruption mechanism. So, with all the grief that I've done all last day about you throwing out public procurement under 39 million kuna in the Reconstruction Act, you're really opening up a corruption space that we'll be dealing with unfortunately for decades after the renovation if ever a part of it happens, today I'm going to talk about a law that's not a strategy, but which is a concrete anti-corruption mechanism that can help our society get better. So, I'm going to talk about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access the information we referred to in the procedure on 14 October of this year. You asked us to be constructive. When this fellow Habian heard who begged for it came out of the room. You asked for suggestions on how to fight corruption. Here's a suggestion. What's this about? Therefore, the right to access information is one of the most important anti-corruption tools, and its timely and effective implementation has the effect of general prevention on potential participants in corrupt activities. Please chair really all the time you're telling me behind my back, and yet...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66212	The chairman apologizes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66213	That's what I'll take. So it's about one of the most important tools that makes corrupt actions impossible. Since the practice of the Commissioner for Access to Information has been revealed by the public authorities still too often do not respect the obligations of the Law on the right to access information, and citizens and the public often do not receive information in due time. The former Commissioner for Information spoke publicly and exhaustively, stressing that the infringement procedure was long and mostly falling into old age and further tied hands in this regard because it cannot punish the body, but only the head or other responsible person. That was also said by the current Commissioner for Information, who in the parliamentary debates as well as media statements on several occasions urged the Commissioner's institution to be granted the power of punishment. So, what exactly is this about? You need information, you want information, you ask the bodies of local self-government, anyone in the governing structure to give you that information because by law you have the right to receive dead silence. After that, you complain. You also have a Commissioner for Access to Information, but he's just a dead letter on paper because he can't do anything concrete to get the information you need. As long as the leaders of local self-government, as long as anyone in power knows that they will not have to provide the data necessary to expose these corrupt actions and the functioning of authorities, he will avoid his legal obligation because he can. We therefore propose amendments to the laws that give the Commissioner for Information as an independent state authority to the administration of fines as a public authority, and they should contribute to the improvement of the rights of users to fully and timely exercise of the right of access to information. We also propose to supplement the powers in such a way that all public authorities have a clear obligation to produce and publish consolidated texts of general normative acts, laws, regulations, regulations which are the holders. As regards the Office of the National Security Council, we believe that it should be excluded from the decision-making process on the request for access to classified information. This is a summary of something I hope that since you really care about fighting corruption, we have here and the bodies of the authorities that can look back on our legal proposal that we will discuss this seriously. But what's the key message is to facilitate access to legally approved information and offer you a concrete tool to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66214	Thank you very much. The first replica of Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66215	Thank you. counterpart Selak Rasudic, we constantly have one spam from the ruling that the opposition proposes nothing. So this is a concrete proposal, so where the Commissioner for Information would be empowered to directly punish those who do not want to supply information. But we have a fact that from the top of the government, the Ban Courts don't want to deliver information, documents, full warrants, for example. for this party party in Finland where there were neither the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest nor the Commissioner for Information. We also have a situation I am witness to the fact that the travel orders from our embassies where they were lurking with money from Croatian taxpayers declare themselves a state secret. They in secret declare their corruption. And also recently, Club Mosta sent a bill where any false testimony and lack of documentation to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest or the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament would be punished by prison.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66216	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66217	They won't accept any of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66218	Mr. Grmoya, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66219	I will remind you that we have also directed amendments and additions to all the laws on the maintenance of all forms of elections in the Republic of Croatia, and not only before the local elections, suitable for those who will compete in local elections, but also for elections concerning the EU Parliament, which concern the President of the Republic of Croatia, but also for the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia in order to level the practice, which is the only legitimate solution that people who are convicted of corruption cannot participate in democratic processes and in the behaviour of the authorities. We had, we were one of the clubs that had the most amendments to the Rehabilitation Act. We had concrete proposals on the Recovery and Resistance Plan that were included in the same Recovery and Resistance plan. So all that's trying to place in public about the opposition doing nothing is a simple spam of a panicked ruling coalition, because they can't defend themselves from our proposals first, and they don't dare accept them at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66220	Thank you. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66221	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues Selak Rasdic are good suggestions for you and I support them heartily. If I ever get a chance, I'll vote for them. But you've opened up another topic. The construction of the opposition when it comes to fighting corruption. What you're talking about as your own proposals is complementary to the suggestions that I've developed in a whole new Anti-Corruption Strategy. So, if there's a topic where rulings have no argument to say that the opposition didn't serve them anything, then that's exactly what this topic is. Moreover to these same thesis, the shortened thesis from my Draft Anti-Corruption Strategy was also called upon by fellow Habib because here is the presence of a colleague of Grmoi here in front of the National Council and supported the same thesis and directed you into the procedure. What kind of fight do we need against corruption? So the one that changes the whole system, because that system is soaked with HDZ corruption, which is no longer labels. That's your diagnosis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66222	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66223	In order to be able to systematically fight corruption other than, of course, the reform of the entire local self-government which, unfortunately and unwarrantedly, came out as a subject and had never occurred, and that may be your biggest unwanted victory, we would have to change two key things. The first way to report to the media is to be independent, and the second is the electoral system that we have quality democratic processes. We said something about how to report and darken the country's main information service last week as a united opposition and we managed to win the victory that transparent procedures must be respected when choosing a new director. Unfortunately, we didn't fight the new director. And the reform of the Election Law is something left to us as a task so that we can really have democracy in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66224	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66225	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues here I have a very short question for you and precisely, and I truly believe that you know it and that you will know how to answer me. If you don't know by any chance, you can consult your head of united opposition to Mr. Grmoy. I'd just ask if you could tell me where he went, where did the circus go from our town? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66226	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66227	The answer will be very clear and simple. So, at the moment you produced the circus by deciding to rape the procedure and past the legal procedure, which was not held in a legally justified way by the Information Committee to push your candidate for director of HRT, when the entire opposition justifiably opposed that act and managed to win that victory and force you to respect the procedure when you impose the director of HRT and then your circus ended and disappeared from this city. And that's how it's gonna be again if you dare do something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66228	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Carolina Vidovic Kristo's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66229	Ladies and gentlemen, the first sentences, i.e. the first sentence of the first chapter of this document, are evidence of the way the Ministry of Justice, the judiciary as a whole, but of course also the Government that manages Croatia. The introduction reads that there was a National Anti-Corruption Strategy from 2015 to 2020, and we are being discussed with a document of the Anti-Corruption Strategy from 21 to 30 in October and in the same year 2021. So this document is so important that almost 11 months didn't exist at all. So much for his importance. If I were to throw myself away with sarcasm right now, I could say a lot of things to the irony here. However, the lives of our citizens are too dramatic for the very reasons of the universal corruption that the executive government is generating, and the judiciary rather than preventing it from aiding that corruption. For that reason, it's neither the time nor the place for sarcasm. The very need to adopt specific acts is proof that the laws do not apply. One of the main culprits is the ministry that proposes this strategy. I personally testify that I have sent countless memos to the Ministry of Justice without the Ministry of Justice doing anything to prevent the illegalities I have reported to them. The most absurd thing is when the minister and his secretary of state write to me that they can't act because of the government's trinity and the independence of the judiciary. No one believes in the independence of the Croatian judiciary, which is confirmed by all relevant institutions starting with the European Commission, scientific authorities and international business institutions. The Justice Department, for example, has the right to review the courts, the DORH. Finally, he has the right to propose laws to the Parliament and it is necessary to respond to any knowledge of violations of the law. In the spring of this year, the justice minister is on the news that judges in Split illegally associated with the former mayor of Split during the lockdown, who himself stated in various cases the client of those same courts that if the Supreme Court did not react, the ministry would react. It's been more than six months, and what happened? Nothing. Let's just take the action of the DORH. his inaction. But let's also see how the DORH would have to work for what we finally pay him for. We have seen a case from Austria which is also a Member State of the European Union as well as we. The state's attorney's office has fallen into the office because of a reasonable suspicion of corruption, and the Chancellor resigned. What about DORH in Croatia? If the judiciary is the cancer of the Croatian state and society, and it is, then the DORH is the cancer of the early judiciary, because the DORH makes Croatian and European public uncomfortable. The DORH creates general uncertainty. He makes decisions that no one can understand alive, which simply offends common sense. Because how can the DORH justify keeping Croatia's insurance case in its drawers for 8 years? How can it justify absurd in the case of Zagreb's advent houses where three companies work identically in the opinion of the DORH criminal activity, but only one company is being investigated? How can he open investigations and pompously at 6 a.m. arrest a Međimurje Mayor on charges of taking 10 thousand kuna bribes, and have a case in Plinacro where Pupovec's follower has 15 thousand kunas a monthly net salary without coming to work at all? Will they arrest the Pupovec or Plenkovic who ordered it? Has the DORH done anything from Pandora Papers and a member of HEP administration, Mark Cosic? It's not because Plenkovic is protecting him. Ladies and gentlemen, when chroniclers and historians once analyzed this phase of the Croatian state, then they will justifiably ask themselves the question of how is it possible that this enormous amount of injustice and lawlessness were kept silent by the relevant social factors? Because of this corruption in the last five years, half a million Croatian citizens have moved away. Because of this corruption, our health care is falling apart. The only growth is the growth of social depression. Indeed, the Lords of the Ministry of Justice will not remember you for good. But also be safe because of your work to protect corruption and failure to comply with your legal obligation at some point you'll be making bills. I'm against this document because it's absurd, false and pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66230	We have a replica of Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66231	Dear colleague Vidović Kristo, you mentioned health care for example. Health care is one of the key activities in which the biggest corruption is recorded not only in Croatia, but also at the level of the entire European Union. And special warnings came about corruption during the Covid crisis due to accelerated procedures. Of course and expected, our government suspended public procurement for all health care during this crisis and we don't see when it will be returned as it is now trying to suspend public procurement in construction around the renovation. To know what's really going on, we have one tool in our hands as representatives, which is to ask parliamentary questions. However, why is this tool when we do not get answers to them? Here I am sending a second rush, because I didn't get an answer on time at the Department of Health and Response from nowhere. And no one will be punished for that, how do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66232	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66233	A esteemed colleague violated Article 238, citing a hundred times the full lack of public procurement in the Covid crisis. So we've already discussed this once. The same thesis is repeated over and over again, so this public procurement is not done during the crisis. She's been in legal and sublegal acts forever or at least for the past 10, 12 years that I remember. Well, here's to informing the correct public, I'm aware that you're going to give a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66234	Thank you very much. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is not for information, nor is it for the truthfulness of something someone said, but rather for some other things. And I have to give you a warning. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure, too? Here you go, Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66235	This Regulation shall enter My colleague Grba Bujević is falsely informing the Croatian public. So the government's decision since March last year, all supply of goods and services associated with Covid has been declared a secret and the decision has not yet been removed. I don't know if you don't know or pretend you don't know, but the Croatian public must be informed about it... in that we asked for that secret to move away. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66236	Okay. You have a warning. This is a second warning. No, this is a second warning. There'll probably be another warning for you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66237	So 238 for accurate information. Everything that was purchased is on the Ministry of Economy's website, and I have warned it many times already here. So there's no secrecy. Everything is specified at the prices and by the quantities indicated, and colleague Selak Rasdić has been saying it over and over for months here, so it's hard to listen to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66238	Thank you very much. You have a second warning. Should I throw it away or should we keep it here? Should we throw it away? Should we throw it away? I would be tossing him and not having three injuries to the Rules of Procedure at all, but every violation of the Rules of Procedure 500 kuna and everyone injure the Rules of Procedure as many times as they want. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66239	Thank you, dear colleague Selak Rasdic. When we talk about where the most corruption is, I think it's ungrateful to say that the greatest corruption in health is. I think it is much more accurate and closer to the truth that the biggest corruption at the highest levels of Croatian politics, Croatian stakeholders which we call a deep state. They generate corruption. And why is she so dilated, for example? Right in the health care you mentioned? Exactly because when you from the position of most power where the greatest corruption occurs and allows and in order to protect and blacken these traces of corruption you have to corrupt the entire system so that everyone gets into a situation that they have to remain silent. In Croatia corruption is institutionalized to the lowest pores and you are not able to get a simple review today unless you are corrupting someone. It's that dark system, and we're here to turn on the lights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66240	Thank you. Thank you very much. At least you're right all the time. Thank you. Mrs. Katarina Peovic is on her way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66241	Thank you. I will paraphrasise one poet: "No one is satisfied with their happiness and no one is dissatisfied with their morals." Everyone is moral, everyone is unsumptive, everyone is capable, everyone is the best. But in the first part, I tried to draw limits on such morality, about anti-corruption policies. So anti-corruption policies have their limits, especially in the economies of poverty that we are in. I'll give you a plastic example. We're all taking down the Rules of Procedure, although we're aware that it's not exactly by hurting the Rules of Procedure, but you want to react. The scarce time you have for reacting usurp knowingly means breaking the Rules of Procedure. Now, that's what you call the economy of poverty. When a colleague Boris said it was our impression that things were bad, so when people say that the government of corruption doesn't literally think that someone is corrupt morally, but thinks that they can't get to health care, that their children can't get to colleges, you can't get into high school anymore. We could all go to high school when we went to high school. Not everyone can today. You can't get to a job, you can't get to a quality job. Now, we have one zero corruption when it's enough to have a party card of one party or another depends on who's in power and then you get to work. Here I'm going to try to expose what corruption is two zeros because I don't think it's that easy to solve things in a way that no more party card. Even the party card was a fairer form of corruption because then you knew who it belonged to and who it was bound to. Here, corruption in Croatia and allegedly no corruption in the west are often mythological. Although corruption is extensive in us precisely because of the poor economy, you are in a situation of two zero corruptions in which it will be increasingly clear that it is not just moral corruption, but structural corruption and systemic corruption. And the best test of systemic corruption is this one, so to solve the problem of bribery and corruption, it's enough that everything is therefore, everything we privatize publicly. And then what until then was worth bribery and corruption will suddenly become a fair market relationship between private contracting parties and who have no money to pay services to private companies even if they provided the same services of treatment, education, etc. It will remain sick and uneducated and it will be primarily their responsibility. And here goes the current government, I'm afraid a lot of opposition wouldn't go the other way either. If a doctor in a state hospital is convicted of taking bribes then the same doctor who was convicted of receiving bribes in a public hospital receives patients in a state hospital in order to receive patients in his private service, it will no longer be considered corruption. Therefore, those who come for surgery because they can pay for his service will be considered an honest exchange relationship and a fair reward for the skills of a doctor. This is not just about us, but it will take enormous proportions and it will have dramatic consequences and already has, and it will have worse and it is not just about the impression that Boric said. And if it wasn't for the impression, it's the best thing we can do is witness statistics, and the statistics we need to stick to are indicators of poverty and social exclusion. On a scale of indicators of poverty and social exclusion every year we go one or several places up. So 7% of people don't have any heat, 23% that's slightly less than a million is at risk of poverty, 53% can't settle unexpected financial expenditure, 51 can't afford a week's vacation. In this dark socialism that many here now apologized for all sorts of things, 60% of people could go to sea, or to an annual place outside. The rest is 39% of the salary today. In socialism, 70% of the salary was paid. So the pensioners didn't dig through the containers. Mostly when we're talking about the West, it means real capitalism, so someone's going to tell us is... capitalism, dude, so we need to get to that real capitalism. No, I don't. So we do, and that's what I was saying in a replica of revolving door strategy where the biggest managers of private firms go to the ministries. What was with us Minister Maric was... it was a regular practice in the west.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66242	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66243	Dear MPs, what you're saying about the state of poverty of our citizens is really terrible. So it's hard to listen to, and it's certainly in the state to make sure that it's gone and that poverty in the country is eradicated. However, you mentioned earlier that socialism did not have to wait, how, 60% of people went to sea. Well, don't you have an impression, at least I have what little I've lived in socialism and what I've learned, that socialism has been a waste of bribery and corruption? You mention school records and then you sign up over a relationship. Doctor took a hand and a hat and then more than I know now. So when was this and where was this socialism so great that there was no myth and corruption? And now, as far as we can see, the heritage of socialism whether we can, whether the SDPs are all hiring on the party line, entangle and everything else is working in the best manner of Yugoslav communists and socialists.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66244	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66245	Well, thank you for that. See, that's why we can't stick to the impression. It's your impression that he's in communism, in socialism, otherwise you're talking Communism, so I made a slip as you described it. But statistics should be kept, and statistics say that the salary, that the pension was 39%, that today 39% of the salary was the salary and then 70% of the salary, that 60% of the people could go and afford themselves a week's vacation, so today 51% of the people can't afford it. We do not have to list these other statistical indicators at all because they were all thick above the average of the Croatian state. But I would also say that this really needs to be reduced, and I really agree that the impression should not be based on its views, but on statistics. And when we talk about the impression, I also forgot... I didn't say mitology and the West. And there's corruption and everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66246	Thank you. Time. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Damir Habian's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I am when I asked for a break on behalf of the Club I said that or that there would be... dilemmas, there is one choice first of all by the opposition whether today we are going to talk specifically about this strategic document, so the Anti-Corruption Strategy, or still that debate will take place in one other direction in which we see it and go, where we are actually in a low demagogue populist way discussing this topic. Another thing I'm really sorry about in this year and a half as often as I am in this Croatian Assembly is the debate on corruption, where most often our side is being accused of such actions, so now you're using this judicial verdict. And then on the day we discuss the strategic document on the Anti-Corruption Strategy for the 21st period - 30 in the assembly right now, there's everything from you if I counted six well. That says enough how interested you are in this subject. That says enough how credible you are in what you say and point out and what your real intentions and goals are. In my individual debate, I will briefly touch the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest since I consider it to be an important law. If we're looking at this whole strategy, maybe one of the most important. And through this debate during the day on behalf of clubs and individual debates we could actually hear a lot of things that weren't true. So let me briefly highlight the things that are important in this bill that are currently at this point and in the public debate and which I think definitely show that those claims that come that the commission will lose its powers are being defused or that all terms are already being used are not correct. So, above all, the number of addresses to which the law itself applies increases. So now the presidents of the administration, members of the management of therefore companies in majority state ownership, will also enter, in the majority ownership of local and regional self-government units, directors of health institutions, director of HRT, if you will. Therefore, to say that the power of the Commission is not to be deprived is not true. On the other hand, there are 7,000 members of the representative body. Therefore, they will now have an obligation to notify all transactions they have with companies that are mostly owned by local and regional self-government units. The other thing to solve is deadlines, procedural deadlines. So the Commission now has a clearly prescribed six-month deadline to make a decision. The official of that law shall also have a deadline of 8 days, so as to show himself on the adopted proposal to initiate the procedure as the High Administrative Court is now obliged to take a ruling against that decision within 90 days in the event that he adopts the legal remedy. The other thing is, there's an increase in fines. Third, penalties shall be prescribed in the event that no documentation or official is supplied by order of the Commission. Land registers are linked. Therefore, the commission will be able to identify and verify certain data very easily. There's an increase in funds for the Commission alone. They're also as busy as we've heard a few more people in the Committee themselves. I am therefore unclear, and I am sorry that my colleague Oreshkovic is not present here because she is in a document that she has just mentioned here herself earlier, in fact, that she has proposed it, she has precisely asked to expand the circle of addressees to be as many stakeholders covered by this law as possible, and now this bill of law is not good. So that points to these double standards and double criteria that they constantly respect. Article 5 I think it is very important to stress that it is not abolished. GREECE never recommended that sanctions be prescribed for him. I'm gonna pull a parallel that wasn't talked about here today. You have, like, a criminal trial. The judge makes a verdict, for example, a criminal act of robbery. He will not base that verdict on the general principles of the Penal Code on the principle of legality, the determination of penalties. He will base the verdict on a concrete article that regulates this crime. Same thing in this case. Therefore, it cannot be based on the general principles on the decision of the Commission, but on a concrete act or a misdemeanour committed by an officer to whom it is burdened. So that's what makes a difference. And another thing that's also going through today's debate. The practice has not changed as far as the Administrative Court or the High Administrative Court are concerned. There was no practice. Therefore, none of the officials covered the decisions based on Article 5 were invited in their legal remedy for the infringement of Article 5, but for the first time until this happened to the Administrative Court and the High Administrative Court, for the first time, had now taken legal understanding and legal practice had arisen. Therefore, saying that something was changing for the sake of day-to-day political opportunities is simply not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66248	Thank you very much. Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66249	Dear colleagues, do you think that an overly anti-corruption strategy, even at the level of the ethical code, should be banned from lying in the Assembly? For example, on 17 March 2020, at a meeting of the Government of the Proposal for a Decision on the acquisition and use of goods of strategic stockpiles for the purpose of implementing measures to protect health and strengthen the spread of the Covid-19 virus. The procurement procedure shall be exempted from the application of the Public Procurement Act under Article 42 of the same Act for the protection of essential security and interest of the Republic of Croatia which cannot be guaranteed by less drastic measures, the list of goods and services shall be classified. The government's decision is very simple, and counterpart Grga Bujevic has persistently deceived the Croatian public about the same not to tell a lie. Well, here's my question. Do you think a excessive anti-corruption strategy at least at the level of the ethical code must prohibit lying in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66250	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66251	Thank you very much. So here I can only tell you that you have read this strategy that may not even be so extensive has only 57-58 pages then you could actually give yourself an answer. So I recommend you read the strategy really and this part that you've mentioned inside says, it's very well explained. As you know, counterpart Bosnjakovic said before the Constitution, before the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system will initiate the process of adopting an ethical code for parliamentary deputies. So, I don't see any problem in that, and the answer to your question is in this particular document that is before you, I hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66252	Thank you. Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66253	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Habib, here's exactly as if I knew what you were going to talk about in the previous replica, today means we're talking about a strategy proposal to prevent corruption for nearly 10 years. So it's a long period, and I'm asking you, and as a lawyer, you've been in front of the club and in the debate and I know and I see, I hear that you've dedicated yourself to this strategy and that you've studied it. And I want to know how much, what do you think by listening to today, all day long, how many MPs have actually devoted themselves to the strategy itself, and everyone swears that they are in, in the fight against corruption, and how much they are dealing with themselves in the first place, or in the first place, with various accusations that generally go to HDZ. So how much are we dealing with matter at all, and how much are opportunities being used in topics such as corruption to accuse HDZ of such acts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66254	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66255	Well, thank you very much, dear colleague, for your question. Well, at the outset, I actually said that I expected the opposition to decide on this first approach, or that we would talk specifically about the strategy, that we would eventually hear certain remarks, certain proposals to supplement or amend this document. Unfortunately, here today, from half past ten, not a single word of that actually came from the ranks of the opposition. I'm truly sorry about that, too. And I am particularly sorry for what I said, so today is this opportunity, today we are talking about this document, and today is the opportunity to actually tell us everything that bothers them and what is not good and how legal solutions suggest. Unfortunately, in these few hours of debate, we haven't actually heard that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66256	The breach of Mrs. Selak's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66257	Article 238, such a calling for opposition is indeed a demeaning of all parliamentary deputies. Compare the statistics of once Mira Bulja and 90% of HDZ representatives together, so we'll see who's active. And I would also warn you to talk to you about corruption the moment we have corrupt operations here, mechanisms at work corruption in vivo while your representative lies about government decisions is really deplaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66258	Thank you, it was 3 replicas and I have to take away your word for this debate about that agenda, about that agenda point, I'm sorry, which is the only one today. There's another one. [[Intruder: No.]] For that point then you can wait.../incomprehensible/... Uh, Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk Who, who... [[Intruder: And the breach of the Rules of Procedure was.]] Aha, Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, injury to the Rules of Procedure, I haven't even seen you. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66259	Well, thank you, dear colleague hurt Article 238, meaning mentioning the statistics of the MPs. Well, not everyone here is a statistic hunter like you. you who are publicly boasting about it, but it means what is said, not as much as spoken, because I believe that all of your strong debates and replicas have not contributed greatly to the change of condition in our homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66260	Thank you. It's a warning, of course. I will now save time when I see it's about, when I see it's about the replica and you see it right now in the first 10 seconds, I'll take the word right away. Excuse me. And that, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, it says that you take the word right away. Ma'am, sir, Mrs. Maximchuk now and that replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66261	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66262	Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66263	Dear counterpart Habian, you have returned the debate on the subject, and this is the proposal for a strategy to prevent corruption for the 2021 period. - 2030. Corruption is a social phenomenon that has a strong negative impact on the rule of law and trust in institutions. Of course we're all here today against corruption, so this document is a powerful tool in the fight against it. In addition to the proposal for this strategy comes the second part of the anti-corruption package, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Law on Lobbying, the Law on whistles, and I am interested in your opinion on how much this part of the law will contribute to the fight against corruption and strengthen our institutions that are also engaged in the fight against and attack.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66264	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66265	Thank you very much. Exactly what I also think is important to stress is what the minister himself said in the opening statement, in this actual strategy the principle document follows the action plan whether, for the period '22-'24, '25-27. And '28--'30. and precisely this action plan for this first three-month period is actually mentioned in this report are also those legislative proposals, therefore, and the objectives that are to be achieved in addition to these legislative proposals that you have listed. So there was also mentioned the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on BUSKOK, so it's important that we have a hologram to know what we're doing in which quarter we're doing, but what might be the most important thing is just implementing these action plans. For example, if you look at previous strategies in 2015-2016, implementation of this action plan, so during the reign of the current president of the state, Mr Milanovic, then SDP President and Prime Minister Prime Minister, the '19-20 Action Plan, so it is 88%. That speaks enough of the seriousness of this government in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66266	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66267	Dear fellow Habian, what do you think you're talking about from the beginning of the debate that you hoped this would be a constructive debate, I know you're not comfortable listening to what the facts are, and this is a powerful verdict to HDZ, but here's what we've given you and the concrete suggestions you haven't even shown yourself, what do you think about the Commissioner for Information getting the right to direct punishment for those who don't provide information, what do you think about those who don't supply information, we'll take it to be a easier example of the Sisak mayor who refuses to deliver certain documents to the DORH. What do you think of Prime Minister Plenkovic, who refuses to deliver documents to the Commission, what do you think of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and Minister Grlic Radman who refuses to deliver travel orders from Australia on fraud in our embassies and who also declares the state secret and travel orders even though it is contrary to the Privacy Act, the secrecy of the data?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66268	Thank you, Mr. Grmoy. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66269	Thank you very much. So, like I said, this is a principle document, so a strategy. What you suggested is something that will later be developed, so all these legal proposals that are listed inside will be discussed later. However, I am talking about a concrete document which is proposed, what to change in the strategy, rather than the development of certain legislative proposals that will be part of the action plans. As for the verdict you mentioned here again, so I think that HDZ was clear, we acknowledge the verdict, we don't suffer for the independence and independence of the judiciary, but also when you mention it, it would be a good thing that you don't jump when you get some rest and you don't jump and admit, for example, the decision of the Committee on the conflict of interest and your president of the party, and that you don't jump when someone mentions the Grizzle affair, so it would be good for you to be as calm in these cases when you're rested, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66270	Thank you. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66271	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Habian, a fama in Croatian society and the Croatian public, is being created that HDZ wants to rock the powers of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. I would remind you, and probably you as a lawyer and represent individual officials, you would recall the fact that this law which gave power to the Commission was significantly greater powers and that law was passed and confirmed by the HDZ government. The law was subject to a very large majority of MPs of the then opposition SDP's assessment of constitutionality and was indeed the Constitutional Court in 2012. reduce the significant powers of the commission in the part where it can question the state of the bank accounts, look for a tax administration report on certain property cards, so they did not mind significant cluttering of the powers of the commission at the time, and today they are trying to transfer the clearing of the code to us, in fact, we are not doing it, but we are harmonising the law with the decisions of the judicial authorities in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66272	Thank you very much. Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66273	Thank you very much. You're absolutely right, colleague Bačić, so 2012. It was in the process of negotiations with the EU that the powers of the commission, so according to the proposal for a law proposed by the HDZ were much greater. However, the SDP then files a constitutional suit, the constitutional court adopts the suit, and 5-6 powers that the commission had actually no longer. Now that's being set up, and we're actually coming up with that, and that's those double standards and the double criteria that we're constantly listening to. And now that the commission is actually getting more power, the circle of addresses is expanding, the fines are increasing, certain new sanctions are prescribed, and now that law is simply not good, and that HDZ is not doing well. So let's be realistic and try not to finally apply these double standards and double criteria, but I think the public and I see what you're talking about and that actually it doesn't all stick to the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66274	Thank you very much. And now she's a lady. Ancient Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66275	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Habib, here's the whole time we've been listening to him when we've got something justified that we're lying about, that we don't give the exact information, we've been called all morning for all sorts of things, so I'd just like to see you coming from the same county to see that the only judicial verdicts that were made with us were from the SDP, so when Mrs. President said. Sabina Glasovic that they immediately excluded their former mayor of Lovric Merzel from the party, it is not true 4 months after the verdict you expelled her from the SDP, so she would ask nicely to read yourself a little.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66276	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66277	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. So I also mentioned in the debate on behalf of the club, so corruption has its own name and name, so corruption has no party omens and no party card, but unfortunately for certain colleagues here in the assembly it's not clear, but it's much easier to stick the HDZ label to it that it's corrupt, and when you remind them of their examples, then it's a problem, then they feel attacked and it doesn't suit them. So, if you're looking for an apology, if you're looking for it, you're calling for a temporary election, then it would be good to clean up first of all at your doorstep and admit that you also have cases like this. And I repeat, corruption is a phenomenon, a phenomenon that does not therefore have party membership, it is present in all segments of society and has a name and name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66278	Thank you very much. And now it's Madam. Rose Vukovac and after that, and after 5 minutes of break we will take work, for technical reasons always the same, for the sake of sreaming, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66279	Thank you. Dearly respected, therefore, corruption is one of the main obstacles to the effective work of the institutions, which we have heard enough about today. Transparency International Corruption itself defines itself as a misuse of trusted powers for private benefit. They state that corruption can be contained in several forms, for example in the conduct of public officials who seek or take money or services in exchange for counter-services, and politicians who abuse public money or assign public affairs or contracts to their sponsors, friends and families. All the above sounds familiar, we hear about it, we read about it in the media every day. A very similar definition is brought by the World Bank, which calls corruption an abuse of public authority for private benefit, according to which corruption always involves the public sector, whether it is corruption within certain parts of the public sector, therefore for the private benefit of its employees or for corruption transactions to take place between the public and private sectors. Corruption unquestionably leads to the loss of citizens' confidence in the state institutions, state authorities, and also corruption has a negative impact on social stability and general social security. The state is fuelled by corruption is very insecure and therefore reluctant to foreign companies. Let us ask ourselves, is it all happening in Croatia and to what extent? In the business environment, corruption causes a high degree of uncertainty by slowing down business processes and resulting in additional costs. As a result, a particular area becomes less attractive to business and reduces private investment and competitiveness, and the economy cannot realise its potential. So corruption affects the public sector most regardless of what the minister was telling us today. It directly reduces the revenues of the state leading to a number of indirect and extremely harmful consequences, namely reduced funding opportunities for education, health and social care, as well as construction and maintenance of infrastructure. Since corruption activities take place in the area of high secrecy, corruption is easy to change public investment priorities with projects to improve education and health care towards defence or infrastructure financing projects that are less exposed to public supervision by nature. In the country, high presence of corruption, social potentials are aimed at drawing revenue from corruption's rent rather than at increasing productivity. Institutions are becoming powerless in performing their functions and the state is rapidly losing its legitimate right to bring economic regulation and provide a developmental institutional framework that is currently happening in Croatia. When the institutions of the rule of law are declared, the judicial system no longer ensures the implementation of the contract and the protection of property rights, and public administration institutions significantly slow down business cycles. In addition, the number of public administration employees is increasing due to corruption due to the attractive ability of additional earnings from corruption activities. Such a massive and corrupt public administration is increasingly less effective, closing the vicious circle of its size and poor functioning, in addition to that, corruption increases the income inequality and poverty of citizens. Additional revenues from corruption activities are collected by a smaller social group that is not relatively wealthy, exploits the benefits, privatises public aspects of social activities, which has an impact on the work of institutions, which should actually combat such phenomena in society, while those poorer layers of the population due to circumstances in which living and low standards cannot participate in any form of corruption. In general, the lack of efficiency of institutions in a corrupt society prevents the import and application of new technologies, the entry of capital, successful privatisation, mobility and increased labour productivity as well as other economic performance factors. Today, there are a number of standardised surveys of corruption, including the country's perception of corruption index. It points to the level of perception of corruption in the public sector on a score scale of 0 to 100, with 0 representing countries where corruption is perceived as highly-ranked and highly corrupt, respectively, and it is rated as 100 free of corruption. Research for 2019 brings worrying data, on a 180-nation scale according to the corruption perception index Croatia takes 63rd place with a total of 47 points. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66280	Time's gone already. No, no, be here, but... you'll wait for the replicas if you want to respond. [[Vukovac Invader: Thank you.]] Mr. Pavić has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66281	Dear MPs, I don't know if you're aware of how much you've listed today this institution in which there is corruption. That's what it turns out when we go to the conference in the local self-government unit we bring a chocolate and a little coffee, when we go to the county reference room we bring a candy and a little coffee, when we go to some important institution we have to get a job carrying coffee, chocolate and ham, maybe a liter of cognac etc., etc. So it actually turned out by what you're saying. In the end, everyone solves problems both in the local self-government unit and in the county and with the doctor and they end up working. And the question is, would the result actually be the same if the corruption wasn't there, if it wasn't for those corrupt shops? I believe it would be the same, but we afforded it ourselves because that's how we set off with the bribe we came up with what we came up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66282	Just a minute. With so much coffee, they won't just be corrupt, they'll be nervous. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66283	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleague Pavic for asking. And that it really takes a lot to talk about, the roots may go a long way back in history when we might actually just want to thank each other and thus generate a new form of gratitude and get a deeply corrupt society. Therefore, this document that we are discussing today is very important, but it really raises the question of who will be guarding the guards themselves, it is according to an old Latin, whether the government that generated so many institutions whose corruption has become a normal power to manage and get enough power to fight corruption in society on the basis of these acts, when they are unable to do so, and here they will apologize for the first historical verdict in the Republic of Croatia that just condemns them for corruption. I think the state's move would be I'll apologize to the people. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66284	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66285	Well, here's my colleague, I agree most of the time with you, but I'd still like to warn you about myths that keep repeating here how rich countries don't know the state. So I'm going to repeat one more time in another debate I've set two examples. So Italy when it was one of the world's 7 richest states, it was rocked by scandals of corruption and carried out actions like the '90s manipulative. We have China which is 15 more places in the place of corruption than Croatia, so it does not prevent it from being one of the richest economies of the world. What I just want to suggest to you is that corruption is a symptom, not necessarily the cause of where we are today, and what I highly appreciate about you that you have repeatedly cited excellent statistics that are terribly important where we are, for example, now in agricultural production, milk production, dairy production, etc., but not directly, so it's not the cause and effect of the same thing, meaning poverty, poverty, the very moving of the state from these processes is a bigger problem than corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66286	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66287	Thank you. So, I agree with my colleague, Peovic, that really not only is corruption a cause of such a difficult state in which the state is located. So, we started out after our independence with a one-off privatisation that later opened the gates of hell, I would say that because we lost a lot of quality companies, quality jobs, and later we had really unfair policies, and we still have them toward the village, according to the farmer, according to the man who tries to earn his own bread, the state unfortunately doesn't appreciate it. Today we've heard a lot of talk about it, corruption is just a continuation of such a story, and unfortunately here we haven't had a serious team that would roll up sleeves and try and do something in that field. I'm still hoping that documents like this will still do something in that field.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66288	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Up to 16 and 20 short breaks. It's 4:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:22 A.M.]] There are six of us with me, but six of us better than no one. Mr. Shashin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66290	Dear Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Secretary of State, my colleague, I see no colleague. There's a colleague. [[Intruder Radin: You can also welcome the names if you want as many as there are.]] So here I think fighting corruption is one of the most important and it is important to highlight the continuing tasks of every society, every country to ensure the stability and prosperity of the state. The strategy to prevent corruption is a planned and normative framework to fight corruption. Given that today very little practical talk has been made about this document itself, or the strategy itself, I will try to maintain on these five main objectives defined in this strategy, under number one strengthening the institutional and normative framework for the fight against corruption, two strengthening transparency and openness of public authorities, under three strengthening of the system of integrity and the management of conflicts of interest, four strengthening of institutional potentials in the public procurement system and five raising public awareness of the harmfulness of corruption, the necessity of reporting irregularities and strengthening transparency. This fifth goal, or all of these goals, is really well-conceived and listed, but this fifth objective for me may be the first and most significant and therefore I would like to especially highlight it in my discussion. We must practically all be aware that corruption can literally destroy every society, every country. We are unfortunately witnessing this in our neighboring neighbourhood, and even in the EU countries that we often consider to be long ago, long ago arranged and that at a far higher level of awareness development or the fight against corruption. That is why I would like to highlight under number one, or what I consider to be the most important preventive measure, the role of family and all institutions involved in the formation of young people in raising our children, our grandchildren. Why am I pointing that out? Because if we have a large number, a large percentage of deep-aware people, the inhabitants of our country believe that the possibility of any corruption of any kind of corrupt action will be far, far less. There is, of course, a more significant role of both the Church and all other institutions that influence psychology or thinking, public opinion, the formation of a general state of the spirit of a nation. Indeed, it is a permanent task and needs to be done as quickly as possible and systematically. The second, in my opinion, is the role of legislative authority, which is precisely what we are trying to do here in this House and doing to create a legislative framework that will recognise the possibilities for any corruption to the least possible extent, means that the laws are such that we can simply break them, that we simply cannot come into a situation that any corrupt act is because you know what that folk proverb says makes a thief, which is exactly the role of Parliament and all of us here to bring these opportunities down to a truly minimal, to the least possible measure. The third, in my opinion, may be one of the most significant roles, or tasks, which is the role of a legislative authority that is repressive, which all of which appear and which are found to be present in society in time, effectively and fairly sanctioned in a way that everyone thinks well before engaging in any illegal corrupt activity, etc. Because he is aware that justice will come upon him that he will simply answer for it and that it will certainly not be worth it. This is what if we achieve these three measures, or three of these goals, I really think that in the future we will have a much, much better, healthier society and less of these phenomena that we all don't want to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66291	Thank you. Mrs Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66292	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Shashin. At the end of 2020. The justice ministry conducted a line of research to assess the state of perception of corruption among citizens in the Republic of Croatia. On the issue in which the citizens are most often forced to participate in corruption, citizens put health care first, and second local self-government. As a longtime head of the municipality, what do you think of corruption in local self-government, and where are these problems that lead citizens to serve corruption, and what are your experiences in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66293	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66294	Indeed, only witnesses are that corruption is at all levels, so unfortunately both at local and regional and national and all levels. However, regardless of the perception that this is said to be very pronounced locally, I know indeed hundreds and hundreds of my fellow mayors, mayors, mayors who conduct honorably and fairly their duties in the second, third, fourth and more terms and who have never really had problems with any corrupt actions, nor have anyone investigated them because they are simply exposed to the supervision of state institutions that do so regularly in their tasks and audits, or every 4 years, account for those who have chosen them practically. And that's what makes them actually the most responsible because believe it especially in small environments where people know each other very well is very difficult to do something that you know will make you very soon. People know each other very well. They know who's family. Where it comes from so that it really is here, thank you for this question. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66295	Thank you for your answer, too. You don't have any more replicas. Mrs. Andreja Maric is on her way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66296	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here we have seen that in an online survey of 3,815 surveyed citizens, therefore citizens put health care first with 33.5%. However, it should be said that not all health workers are corrupt and corrupt, but it is also necessary to separate the weeds from the grain and punish any form of corruption. I remind myself of what I was saying and in the replica that in the Eurostat study in 12 months 65% of Croats were in the doctor or hospital, 95% of them claimed that they did not have to pay additionally or give a valuable gift to a nurse or a doctor or a donation to the hospital. Let's see what measures this proposal offers for a health strategy. First, it says improving the health care control system. Here they have identified that outstanding obligations have been made mainly in hospitals, especially those owned by the county and that there is reasonable doubt that the invoice of medical procedures is not always based on real medical procedures, but there is the possibility of maximising the amount of invoices by hospitals according to HZZO and offer a solution to improve the payment system in terms of digitisation, transparently paralysing hospital accounts with therapeutic procedures to improve control of the management of financial resources. And you know what the real solution is? There they are at the move of the Government and the Resort Ministry because the existing health system is nakaradna. Spend payment per DTP and per DTS on the treatment of patients 10,000 kuna HZZO pays you 5,000 kuna. Unreal prices are provided for health services. There are insufficient financial limits for health care and debt growth. Unfortunately, the new draft amendments to the Health Protection Act, which has been sent from the ministry these days for discussion by various health stakeholders, do not offer the necessary reforms. Second measure, strengthening transparency and efficiency of managing waiting lists in the healthcare system. It also states that we agree that more effective management of waiting lists is needed. It also states that the end of 2019 introduced a single order calendar that should reduce waiting lists by 9 medical procedures. This includes 56 hospital health institutions, 6 more needs to be included. What's taking so long? Furthermore, from the revision of the waiting list on the magnetic resonance that we had the opportunity to discuss in the 10th month 2020, it is clear where the problems are. That the lists are not updated regularly, that patients are not subject to orders, that they have not published waiting lists on the hospital's website, that the commissions have not made sufficient analysis of the waiting list, etc. What's the solution? The findings of these audits that clearly exist and do their job well, and for the purpose of transparency of the management of waiting lists and equal treatment of patients according to the degree of urgency, should then be said on the websites whether it is the first, control, child, emergency term related to malignancy or haematological disease, pretransplantation, etc. Which most hospitals don't have. The following measure strengthens the mechanisms of conflict management of interest in providing health services. It therefore states that the emergence of a conflict of interest is linked by the simultaneous work of healthcare professionals in public health institutions and private healthcare providers. Not long ago, we witnessed conflicts within the KBC of the Mercy Sister, we heard great accusations to each other on, from corrupt actions to conflicts of interest in the relation of the public – in private, it was also on the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. And what's the solution? First, we need to get insight into what has been required, inspection and administrative oversight in all institutions, and so the KBC of the Mercy Sisters continues to be in competitions for positions, so directors, heads of staff, clinics, head of departments, chief nurses, head of finance, candidates can not be both owners and co-owners of private institutions and be on projects that mix private and public, and to a certain level nor work publicly and privately. It's very simple to write in competitions. Next, the management of public procurement corruption risks in the field of health, that all these public procurement procedures should be made transparent. With regard to the relationship between the health system and pharmaceutical companies, about the narrow problem of corruption paying doctors and other medical staff for their services, therefore classical bribes should also be strongly condemned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66297	You, too. Mr. Pavić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66298	Dear MPs, here's the story among our people that actually doctors go to classes free of charge, courses that actually pay them pharmaceutical companies. I believe that you've had opportunities in your work since you've already had a long internship and that you've worked in the hospital, that you've had opportunities to meet such an example that you are offered to go somewhere, on the one hand. On the other hand, you probably had patients who came in with some kind of chocolate bar or something like that in your purse to do something else for them. Please tell me how common this case is in health care or worse in your county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66299	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66300	Thank you very much. So, first of all, you need to distinguish something that's a bribe that someone expects from you when they do, and on the other hand, to tell you that when at the end of the examination, some grandmother who brings you 10 eggs, a year she hasn't seen you, I've never, ever, ever been embarrassed to take such things, but you see that Grandma is offended, then you take those eggs, you give it to your sister, and you divide the chocolates, etc., so that should be distinguished. When one of you asks for a favor and gives you a bribe or so in advance, they are narrowly corrupt actions and it should be fought against. I personally, and most of my colleagues don't ask for chocolates or eggs or anything. So that's where our people need to be educated so that nothing is asked of them, we need an orderly health system where our work will be valued, in which there will be transparent waiting lists, where it won't even be necessary for a citizen to think he has to wear something to do a favor. As far as pharmaceutical companies are concerned, they should also be severely punished by those who are stimulant in medicine, and then go to some kind of convention. I didn't get any further. [[Intruder: Time, time, time, thanks]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66301	No, don't stay, stay, Mr. Bacic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66302	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maric, when we look at the polls you mentioned in the first sentence of the poll, along with the judiciary and health care, the top three depends, depending on who conducts the survey when the issue is corruption itself. You've talked a lot about some internal measures between hospitals or perhaps in the ministry itself that you might be able to solve through some ethical codes or regulations, but since we're in the assembly this is a strategy, it still provides some kind of framework, only later come certain regulations and laws. In your view, if we look at a little broader picture, normatively or institutionally, of what we can help in the assembly, which you would change when we look at all the laws and normative aspects of the health itself or again or again or again when we see a higher percentage and the thing just some perception or maybe a bad image or maybe I don't know too many of this and the spread of privatisation in health, so citizens might, perhaps, feel that they need to pay something that we shouldn't otherwise, but here's your proposal purely normative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66303	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66304	Thank you very much. Look, this strategy is one thing and the list of measures is one thing, here's 2015 by 2020. 5 measures, all nice sounds, now you're reading the Corruption Strategy, same all these measures I've stated, something I've brought out, all that sounds nice, but I've offered them solutions. It's not just internally inside the hospital or the ministry, so these are existing laws that we need to change. Well, here's what I mentioned to you about the Health Protection Act and a series of other reforms that we expect the Ministry or government to offer, and even now that it's out there, it doesn't offer hope that something of quality will change. So I've been in the system for a long time and I'm really trying to be objective, you know that myself, but just what's offered isn't enough. So, that's why a series of laws should follow all that's beautifully written in the strategy, and then we'll just be able to say that we're really fighting corruption and that we're working on education so people don't even think they have to take an example to a doctor or something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66305	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66306	Thank you to the president, my fellow MPs and MPs. In the opening replicas, we often heard that corruption has its own name and last name and that there is no collective guilt and responsibility for corruption. It would disagree because when too many of these individual names and names are gathered within a political party that carries the verdict itself for a corrupt criminal act legally confirmed then between that political party called HDZ in the Republic of Croatia and the concept of corruption, we can automatically place a sign of equalisation. If we are talking about why today the complete HDZ and the ruling majority defend this corruption strategy written by the corrupt government, then they can argue that it is because the content of this strategy does not endanger you in any way. The story is very simple, of this strategy will not be, will be nothing, will be adopted by the parliamentary majority who, in the last term, has maintained its power with the help of corrupt tokens, and I am not so sure that there is something much better situation in this assembly now, even though perhaps we can take this notion of a token now under the notion of a token at this time of sleep. We need a strategy that will actually represent a change of the whole system because this system as it is now established was long ago, the moment it was on the wrong foundations of HDZ that built on corrupt foundations all the institutions of this system and such a strategy as I said should create and design opposition, not a corrupt government. And you can't talk about the fact that the opposition didn't have any ideas here and that it had no solutions. I'm glad you're here in the assembly, so you've read my summary of thesis, and you've pulled out only what you're fragmentaryly comfortable with, not realizing that the final effect can only be achieved by symbiosis of all the proposed measures. And if I could make a comparison between your draft and that draft I made back in 2019 and this whole mandate, I dedicated myself to saying what this draft contains, so here's the government's plan and my plan have some five chapters. I symbolically called my strategy "Plan for Croatia" because "Plan for Croatia" means "Plan for Croatia" without HDZ, it is the only chance that corruption will not be the one that we all have. So, you say strengthening institutions and the normative framework, and even before the strategy was adopted, you started destabilising and eliminating the meaning of the existence of individual institutions such as the Committee for Conflict of Interest. You say that one of the priority areas is to strengthen transparency, and you have rejected the proposal not only of opposition but of the National Council for the monitoring of the fight against corruption to introduce full fiscal transparency of all state and public authorities under the system of showing individual payments and payments from all budgets. You say that the aim and strengthening of the system of integrity and the management of conflict of interest, and the strongest and most accessible body, you have made it impotent to discuss the conflict of interest at all, and then you will bring ethical codes at the level of what I know, governments and parliament, and then someone from the government will determine the conflict of interest of one of their members. Now this is a conflict of interest against HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic. And then you said that you would strengthen anti-corruption potentials in the public procurement system in such a way that the minister... rules establishing anti-corruption mechanisms instead of strengthening the repressive powers of the law enforcement body instead of strengthening the capacities of USKOK and DORH. Today, we only have 30 judicial employees. And finally, raising public awareness of corruption, instead of raising public awareness, you could do what we've been up against from the beginning, which is to reduce the number of counties, cities and municipalities to an appropriate level and make a complete reform of electoral legislation. Now that would be a strategy to stop corruption as we really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66307	Mr. Bacic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66308	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues Oreshković often play on a moral vertical map, I will not take it away if you feel that way, but I will ask you where is my colleague Puljak Marijana, she likes these topics and she often discusses these topics and today we see that her husband is a 15 million kuna job 2 million kuna commission, I do not prejudge anyone's guilt, we will see it yet, but you are often for sanctions as soon as the affair comes out, at least these political sanctions, and here is a possible conflict of interest. Are you going to ask your colleague Puljak to get out of your club, because you can't take it or watch it, and you're going to wait for the affair to pass, so maybe you'll come back? And did you even discuss at the club about this topic, did you ask for an explanation, do you know something we might not know here? But the main question, I think you should activate and react already today and ask Mrs. Puljak to leave your club, if you've already had so many moral verticals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66309	Thank you very much. He's in the dark, so answer me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66310	Yes, dear fellow I know much more than you know who you are sitting here now calling Mariana Puljak, I will call Free Dalmatia because of a text containing false claims. What is specific is what no one could challenge me to this day despite all the nonsense that can be heard from your ranks, so I never said a word about anyone without having previously passed the procedure and without all the necessary evidence and facts and no judgments, no apology, the decision of the commission was taken down because of the wrong and incompletely established facts. Reports of the Committee for Conflict of Interest from my mandate were adopted by acclaiming and by the approval and clubs of the representatives of the HDZ, as there were no faults in these reports and in the work of the commission. And today, this same HDZ has not had the courage for three years. submit reports to the Commission [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, time.]] to get at all about them [[Intruder Radin: Time one.]] He's arguing. [[Intruder Radin: Time two.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66311	Here you go, thank you. You don't have any more, no, time. What? And you had a breach of your rules of procedure? And I didn't see that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66312	I don't have to listen to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66313	No, no, you don't have any... Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66314	... I can wait for you to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66315	So it's a pure form of cowardice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66316	No, no, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66317	But this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is your attempt to make it impossible for me to answer your calls.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66318	No, so you're going from this place... The injury and we'll be one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66319	You have a reminder, Mrs. Oreshkovic, of Mrs. Oreshkovic. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66320	Yeah, thank you. Art. 238. I'll risk a warning. Vice President, but I'm just asking the moral vertical of Mrs. Oreshkovic just to answer that simple question, will she throw Mrs. Puljak out until this affair is over from the club? [[Intruder Radin: Ha risk.]] I'm not prejudicing guilt just until the affair is over, and then we'll see... [[Intruder Radin: Good.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66321	All right, Mr. Bacic, I said I'd cut things off, you have a warning, you have a warning. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vice-President of the Voice. No, first sir, not Vice President Voter first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66322	Your Honor, Vice President. I wish you could answer my question, but I don't have the right to ask you how many violations of the Rules of Procedure are given to the members of the HDZ Club today. They've been misusing the rules of procedure all day to be cowardly replicating because they're afraid of replying to a replica. Half the assembly was shut down because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure as well as then half the government for abuse. the position and suspicion of corruption. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66323	Thank you very much. Yours is 76th, yours is 76th warning yes. Mr. Grumoja, please, Mr. Pavić has broken his rules of procedure. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66324	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary. Here's an answer to some of our colleagues on the right of our assembly, and here's to Mr. Habib about the document. Is the document bad? I don't think the document is bad, but there's a surplus. Here's to explain why there's a surplus. Let's say the measure that you cited at 4.1.8. is the same as the measure in 4.2.7. Furthermore, measure 4.1.3.2 is the same as 4.2.17, 4.2.18. etc., etc. So the document has a good goal, I think we have to fight corruption, but it's obvious that the team that worked the document wasn't synchronised enough, you can look at it, it actually says in both places the same thing again. This could have been done better, better quality, and it would have been easier for us all to follow. It's not about speaking against or against this document, it's about having documents that are meaningful and that we can work on later. If you look at what it says, you'll see it's 100% like that. As for the 4.1.3 measure to improve the transparency of media ownership structures, we talked about it the other day, we talked about it when we talked about awarding concessions to Radio 101 and the frequency, yes, the frequency of Radio 101. We got the documents, we got a complete network of ownership structures, we pointed out that, and you got that on your emails, we pointed out that it wasn't good, we again pointed out that this frequency was assigned to a person who already had frequencies, and then nothing happened after that. See, that's not good, and we have it written that we have to control it. Why didn't we work on that two days ago? And don't forget that this is a 2021 strategy, we're deep, deep in 2021. Therefore, you already knew all of you who worked or were close to those documents that were written inside, and we could have respected something and it would have been easier for us to act later. If we look further, we look at the 4.1.20th improvement of the normative framework for the processing of corruption offences in order to speed up procedures. I fully agree with that, but you know what I would add here, I would add here that we should do or form courts for officials, for all those who manage the budget of the court, and it is urgent that these cases are dealt with, not that they wait 10 years, 12 years, 13 years. How long were you waiting for Sanader to be convicted, and what is the point of that verdict? We want to move on, take 4.1.22, 4.1.23. Protection of the applicant's irregularities, what have we done so far? Here's what we had today, an example cited by a colleague named Romana. A person is actually being punished for reporting irregularities. Is that justice in this country? Do we need a system like this? I don't think anyone's ever fought for it and nobody needs it. As far as the information frameworks and the information preconditions in any area are concerned, I have talked about it more than once here because information is a job that I do almost and for this country I have been doing it since Croatia was left alone and I know how much money we spent, but I also see where we came from. If all that money was spent wisely today, we'd have something else entirely. Today, I also talked about it in my free - speech discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66325	Thank you, thank you. Mrs. Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66326	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Pavic. Well, you've mentioned and talked about informing business processes in the public administration several times, and you've just looked back today in your debate. In the document that we are discussing today information and digitisation is mentioned in several places, do you think that the ministry has answered your requests, perhaps or suggestions, and has put that into its own document on the basis of this, or is it something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66327	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66328	Thank you, too. Wait, wait, please answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66329	Thank you. Actually, it's not that it's about listening to my requests or listening to what I'm saying, even though I have to admit that I've already told Mr Horvato, Minister Horvato I'm glad that some of my remarks were accepted and were later implemented in the damage report phase, so this isn't it. These are the necessary things to be done and it's clear to everyone, but it's not done. We have a CDU in Croatia, we have a Centre of shared services to which they have spent so far very many millions of kunas we will ultimately spend a minimum of 360 million kuna plus more for the premises, and at the same time here today in 2021. Although the CDU has been functioning since 2019, the ministry is still calling for tenders to buy hardware and software and no one is doing anything and no one sees anything. Isn't that corruption? And it's all done with a goal to make favour the owners of private companies. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66330	Thank you, time. Now it's Mr. Bolt's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66331	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues. It is interesting when we talk about the perception of corruption means the fact that Croatia is standing in relation to other European countries, these HDZs do a distinction between perception and reality, they say it is just perception, and when it comes to their paid polls, about so-called. The rating of parties, then it is a reality, then Croatian citizens despite their affairs, despite the rightful verdict actually confirm that it has nothing to do with it, that they have, that they enjoy the greatest support of the Croatian people. And what is the truth? It is true that more than 50% of our people do not go to elections at all, and the truth is that the opposition, this opposition, which HDZ calls circus, received 200,000 votes more in the election than HDZ. That's true. It is also true that HDZ has reduced the number of representatives of the diaspora, Croatian diaspora and BiH MPs to only three, together with the SDP, and that this government is being held by minorities which is unrecorded by the precedent so that one European country can go. And that one day the election of the director of HRT who was under heavy conflict of interest, the man who had to leave the HRT had to mean that in Sanader's time, which you have the verdict and then was in conflict of interest voted because Milorad Pupovac said he would still give him conditional support whatever it means, because we know that when the director was once elected he could, he could do whatever he wanted. So, we see the difference how you look at perception even though when we talk about corruption here it's about European Commission research, and when we talk about your rating, it's about the polls of Agan Begic, which gave MOST 3 days before the local elections in all major cities 50% lower ratings. In a serious country, the agency would no longer be involved in public change research. So when you miss someone's score by 50% and that's 3 days then you would, usually the polls 3 days before the election are the most accurate because they still have some kind of responsibility someone's going to ask for their health so stop this one that changed 3 days before the election that you were so wrong. But I don't want to be so much about the polls, I actually wanted to show you how many of your arguments are this, as far as they're not standing. What I want to say here specifically, when you say that the opposition does not suggest that you get anything from an opposition that would help fight corruption, 7 days ago I instructed amendments to the Penal Code to punish anyone who before the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest or before the Working Body of the Assembly to give a false statement or one who refuses to submit the documentation. I urge you to vote for that bill, of course you won't. counterpart Selak Rasudić has made changes to the Law on the right to access information where the Commissioner for Information is authorised to give direct sentences. I'm sure you won't either, you won't accept it because you're constantly covering up corruption. You don't want to deal with corruption, and so there's no transformation because if you don't want to apologize for this verdict, which I don't claim you're here for, I don't know here's a colleague of Habib that's responsible for the verdict given to Ivo Sanader, but it's the party responsible for the money, the black money from the funds funded by the HDZ election campaign. And you don't have enough political and moral responsibility to apologize for it. What can we talk about any further? And we see every day, so here's Gabriela Grill, she wasn't in Sanader's government, she was in Plenkovic's government. It's your frames. Mayor Žinić is not only Sanader's, he was probably Sanader's frame, but he is Plenkovic's frame, etc. Still so many ministers who have gone against whom investigations are being conducted. We will continue to strongly oppose corruption and I hope for once to force you or when we take power, and that is soon to bring corruption down to as low a level as possible. Just laugh, you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66332	Mrs. Anita, you're done, you have to be done because it's past time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66333	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66334	Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radošević, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66335	Thank you, Vice President. I'm going to ask you as president of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy that works here at the assembly, so that's the council that's been working since 2006, right? And always someone from the opposition is the president of that council. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] How are you even satisfied with the work of that council and can it affect some of the processes that are related to the fight against corruption, whether these decisions are sent to a council, whether they are respected, and whether they can make any improvements to make it easier for everyone? So you can tell us a little bit more about this council because maybe here's some of us who are in the first session and don't know that kind of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66336	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66337	Thank you for asking. So, I am very unhappy in general that only or what influence the council itself has on the Croatian government, on the process of passing the law, and on the DORH itself. The state's attorney came to us 10 days ago, she said to close the session, I closed the session and refused to answer questions. I asked the question at the end, so why am I closing the session if you don't want to ask any questions about the cases that have been closed, not the cases that are being investigated now, so you don't want to answer the questions. And I told you this to refuse us both government and I don't know how to deliver DORH for example. travel orders from Australia, they declared it a state secret. So someone was petting the money and it's, it's a state secret. So I'm very unhappy, and besides, you've seen that they didn't let me read the work body's report on this strategy today. So they wouldn't let me at all. I read that because the strategy was not accepted on the Anti-Corruption Council. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66338	Thank you. Mrs. Lukacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66339	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I listened very carefully to you, and if I can well conclude everything you said was HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic, formerly Ivo Sanader, and Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ are also responsible for the verdict of Ivo Sanader for corruption in general. Are you going to say, I realized that the Croatian people are stupid, then how else do you interpret the fact that the HDZ that is so corrupt in your past parliamentary elections as opposed to you in the Most, and I think you have to give some kind of answer because such a corrupt party does not believe that the Croatian people would choose such a corrupt party or what you think about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66340	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66341	Look, 16 years old. In my town, the election was won by a man whose city budget served as an ATM, who bought olives at the expense of the citizens of the town of Metković and those olives from the association where the city's head of the town and then shared those olives in the election campaign in Split on the waterfront, did not even encourage the development of olive industry in Metkovic, but in Split on the waterfront. So you have this argument that citizens don't choose those who are corrupt don't stand. Ivo Sanader was the most popular Croatian politician. So, that, that, that's not at all to you, please don't call on that argument anymore that it's being chosen to prove that it's not corrupt. After all, I think this Vukovic has been doing a research on this Vuk Vukovic where it is shown that they are local leaders who have developed this clienteleist network. to defend the mandate much easier than those who [[Thank you, Mr. Grmoy.]] seek to deal with corruption. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66342	Thank you. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66343	Thank you, Vice President. My friend Grmoy is not okay, that leader you're talking about from the local community is at some point helping you...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66344	No one helped me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66345	...so it would be polite, not to mention him, but I didn't want to ask you that. You said it was a matter of perception. Unfortunately, corruption is measured in the world through the perception of citizens, and so is ours. As for the HDZ and the reduction of the number of representatives by BiH i.e. Just remember, by HDZ, that your Minister Vlaho worked for the local elections while you were part of the elections, you were putting balvanas at Vrgorec, the Herzegovians couldn't even vote with us, so it's not right either. But most of all, what I'm interested in from you is that the leader of a party in your club who has a potential affair like this is not prejudicing anyone's guilt, would you, as a colleague, Oreshkovic accuse the media or would otherwise have been filed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66346	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66347	So Stipe Gabrić Jambo was your coalition partner recently in Metkovic and I'm glad you're repeating his thesis. No one ever helped me, so I worked at Vrgorec at school, answered the competition and was the only one in that competition at school and got a job as a history teacher, so no one helped me. My wife graduated from college in 2006, not yet, she's a French and English teacher, so much so much about it, so much about how much this guy helped me with. And this one, of course, he's going to call because I'm one of those people who ended up self-willing while HDZ was always holding him, as you held in Split, holding a ladder. And as far as this is concerned, I'm here for everyone who's committed anything criminally. If it's me, I'm supposed to answer, I'm certainly not going to justify crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66348	Thank you. Well, it was all correct. - Mrs. Crescent. Romana Nikolic will have a debate now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66349	Thank you, Vice President. Not once have we heard stories about the eviction of the best and most potential personnel from Croatia, most motivated by the fact that the poisoned corrupt systems of value rule in Croatia. Each of us can tell the story of several top young people who left Croatia not only because of achieving better material conditions abroad but also because of the nausea of corrupt social relations in Croatia. Although free as a country, we can't get rid of the chains of corruption that bites our society and doesn't allow us to grow as we should. Where does the problem lie, whether in management or in society as a whole? We need to identify these gray zones that lead to the spread of corruption and adopt serious measures to eradicate these causes. Freedom only makes sense if every citizen of this country can enjoy the basic standards of life and there will be no law in our society. Without a doubt, our country is beautiful, beautiful and as such perception in the world, but our country's reputation has died from the constant corrupt activities that occur. If we look at how many times we have witnessed spectacular arrests and the detention of USKOK in the small mornings that later ended in court ribbons, the processes that were being conducted for years and ended in the end by overrunning the border. No wonder the public has no trust, nor do they think anything will change for the better. We are also not doing a Eurobarometer survey in 2021. that we are the most corrupt member state of the EU, and that we are at the beginning when it comes to the perception of the independence of courts and judges. According to Transparency International Republic of Croatia, except for the exception for 2015 when the only time is classified among unsuspecting countries is constantly becoming worse and worse standing in perception as a corrupt country. It is clear that corruption cannot be measured, but it is a worrying mistrust of citizens in the institutions of government. What's bad is the impression that the guilty are not being punished, so sometimes it's a bit of an incentive for others to deal with corrupt activities. Instead of the DORH acting, to process those who do corrupt activities, the DORH is silent and doing nothing and what kind of message we send to the public. It is the impression that corruption has become desirable and quite normal in our society and that we must fight together and that is why we are here today. It is time for us as citizens of this country to erase corruption from our homeland and make our country free from corruption for future generations and to be proud of it, but not just by words but by concrete parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66350	Thank you very much. You don't, you don't have a replica. - Mrs. Crescent. Anita Pocrnic Radosevic is up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66351	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, fellow MPs. During the multi-hour here today I am the last individual debate and during a multi-hour debate we heard all sorts of opinions about, against, constructive and less constructive proposals. The summary of our opposition colleagues' debate is that they are mainly looking for the culprit for corruption. The culprit is the only one and only according to them HDZ, for a week since the Supreme Court's verdict, it's an unsanitary topic. What is saddening is that in this way they are trying to destabilise HDZ, impose collective guilt on all officials and members, and indirectly to all citizens who have given majority confidence both in parliamentary and local elections. Personally, I don't accept the charges of members of the HDZ, I don't think anyone should feel guilty about anyone else's name. I am not a supporter of collective guilt in any sphere of life, and it is precisely because I believe that the Republic of Croatia is a rule of law and there are legally defined modalities as to how criminal offences are being prosecuted, and it is on the judicial authorities that they send a message that corruption is never paid to anyone in a way that, apart from prison sentences, property gains are taken away and illegally acquired. She tried to impose the thesis that all corruption, or all abuses of power, position and power, since our legal system does not define corruption in the Republic of Croatia at all, has begun, lasted and ended with HDZ. This sends a completely false picture of the perception of corruption and conceals and abolises the corruption that exists, and has nothing to do with HDZ, conceals real effects, factors and participants in corrupt activities, and favours the spread of corrupt acts. Corruption has been a global problem since ancient history, but for us it is a national problem and the fight against corruption must be overcome by narrow party and secular interests and be directed towards citizens as stakeholders in corruption because corruption is a bilateral relationship and citizens must regain their role and thus contribute to the fight against corruption. That is why we must be determined and unique in determining the reason for the creation of prevention and the removal of the need for certain problems and demands of citizens to be solved by corrupt acts, and the fact that HDZ is the only one responsible for corruption certainly does not contribute to that objective. One of the known research on corruption is that carried out by Transparency International, where countries are ranked according to the corruption perception index, it is perception because corruption is a phenomenon that cannot be measured according to that index for 2019 and the 20th Republic of Croatia is in 24th place among the EU countries, but it is 63rd in the world and that is the problem we need to worry about. I will look back at a survey by the Ministry of Justice where the citizens on the line answered 3800 and the question in which citizens are most often forced to participate in corruption, the citizens put health care at 33.5% first, and the health protection segment that all citizens need, and the corruption in health care is the least talkable, and the majority of citizens are affected by it. To be clear, not everyone in health care is corrupt and we need to protect these workers, and those who are prone to report and punish them. That's why I think it is necessary to talk more about the corruption that is present with all our citizens in everyday life, and that's just corruption in health care. In addition to the transparency of the waiting list of procedures and tests, but also the availability of the bed in hospitals, it is certainly necessary to ensure the protection of applicants of irregularities and the availability of the way in which these irregularities can be reported because we do not want the applicant to end up being the victim and stigmatized, and the perpetrator goes unpunished. Therefore, let us, dear colleagues, not only deal with largely corrupt acts that occasionally take place in public, but mainly refer to politicians and businessmen. For some, it is an opportunity for some to gain some public defamation from their five minutes of media space, and they do not see how much damage they do to the general perception of corruption. Consciously or deliberately, I don't know, by that logic, all those who are not part of HDZ can proceed peacefully with corrupt activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66352	Thank you, too. Stay, but we have a breach of Mr. Grmoy's rules of procedure, but here you have... One minute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66353	Your Honor, Vice President. I hope that you will respect the Rules of Procedure, today as President of the Working Body who is responsible for this strategy, I am forbidden to deliver an opinion, therefore Article. In 185, I'd like to present the opinion of the working body. Please allow me now before these discussions of the final clubs so that at least in the final discussions people can look back on it, please. So I don't know what the reason is very likely because this strategy didn't go through on the working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66354	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya, with all the understanding I've had for 17 years I've been chairman of the board, so I know what these things mean, I have to give you the warning that I've given you, can't be announced and taken away from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66355	I need to get on my.../Speaker off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66356	No, and you've been taken from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66357	I have to say I will.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66358	No, I took your word because it's a third warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66359	I have to declare that I will appeal to the Constitutional Committee and I have to do this. I'll say it because I won't be able to appeal to it. [[Intruder Radin: OK.]] So, I'm going to make a complaint about this. [[Intruder Radin: Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66360	Okay, okay. What aren't you allowed to read before? ... I mean, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But right now, you have no right to speak unfortunately for this point. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66361	Thank you, Chairman. You've already said the warning, you've already said the warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66362	Then I'd like to ask you...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66363	... colleagues so she has no need because he has repeated abuse of the institute.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66364	...to give up, give up, please give up. You're giving up, aren't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66366	And now you have a replica. You don't give up then because you have, and no, Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, you have the right, yes, I apologize, Dalia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66367	I accept your apology. I know you didn't do it on purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66368	No, I didn't mean to, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66369	So, distinguished colleagues, you said that corruption is a global phenomenon and that it is not only classified within the borders of the Republic of Croatia, but it is known that corruption is known to be in the Republic of Croatia and who is its largest protagonist and largest carrier. And as a political party that, in 30 years of cheerful and harassing this under you unhappy and harassed, robbed country, I think you have now been able to show, through the draft Anti-Corruption Strategy, that you are ready to step forward and that you are ready to establish a system that prevents this corruption in time, suppresses and what you have been saying is returning estranged money to the resources of the state budget. So do you at least have information when we're going to see those few million Euros that were given to Evey Sanader for the INA MOL affair. [[Thank you very much, thank you, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66370	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66371	... I'll start from the beginning so you mentioned that it's a global phenomenon, and, indeed, there is.../incomprehensible/... in all, in all state arrangements, in all historical periods, and it's really not something new. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] And that's why I'm saying that fighting corruption is primarily a national problem for us, and that we should not use some petty internal market how, but we must all concentrate together on solving this problem. And blaming each other for something that we all have a problem with is really not an option. And we can't just talk about the corruption of some economic politicians and some high state structures as you call it, I'm concerned as a citizen and that corruption that happens in our citizens' everyday lives. And that's what we can't ignore because what's someone's big corruption, and the citizen is every corruption in which he has to participate big.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66372	Thank you. Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66373	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues in your debate have pointed out that it is really important that we all work together to fight corruption, that this labeling who is the main culprit is not going anywhere, and I agree with you here. I think that this strategy, among other things, also since it provides for the adoption of a new Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity and Corruption, I think that is very important. Exactly for reasons to create even better conditions than they are now for those who see corruption and who report it because I think it's the beginning of a fight against corruption. We must really, we must protect those who want to report corruption at every possible level. And I think that's also what he's saying about the government's determination to deal seriously with the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66374	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66375	I agree with you that this government is also predetermined in the fight against corruption and says a large number of processes that even took place before parliament, before the election of various and could go to harm HDZ but are not, but it is also important because of our citizens, because of every small man it is important to have a well-developed system of reporting irregularities. It really becomes a system, that it can be anonymously or in any way, and that person doesn't have to be afraid when he logs in. This is particularly emphasized here and in small areas where I come to where in the end the man who tried to report something would become a Stigmatized, and the one who participated in corruption and forced him to go unpunished, some don't even come to court, and some simply because of the old court proceedings we had the opportunity to read about. They're not being processed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66376	Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66377	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues Anita, the proposal for a strategy to prevent corruption for the period from 2021 to 2030, is a good and balanced document. Corruption is, as we've all said so far, a social phenomenon that has a strong negative effect on the rule of law. I therefore believe that this document is a powerful tool with that anti-corruption package and that it will strengthen our institutions in the fight against corruption. Corrupt people have a name and a last name, so that collective guilt, of course, and you said in your debate, I will never take this one or approve it myself, and this today's doctoring only one side, I don't think it leads to any fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66378	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66379	My colleague, just as I was stressing somehow in the matter of my interest is the struggle of citizens against corruption and the protection of citizens against corruption. And in some ways, we have to raise awareness of these citizens because they want it or not, but corruption is a two-sided relationship. Someone's asking someone to give it to him. There may also be a lot of corrupt attempts in which people often seek something over a relationship and something faster and something that may not belong to them. It should simply be done to raise awareness of our citizens that corruption is not a good way to solve problems. So, of course, this corruption has, this strategy has good elements and that are embedded in the strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66380	Both for you and for the end of Mrs. Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66381	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Anita, here it is we have detected ourselves that this corruption is a really big problem, but we all know that there is this that comes close to educating citizens, we have anti-corruption committees that can form at the level of county, municipalities and cities. So I think that these are too little use for our citizens and for these committees or for these tools to be able to report in their meaning cities, municipalities and counties that have these commissions, and I think that these anti-corruption committees should also be established in all municipalities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66382	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66383	Thank you for mentioning this because the Anti-Corruption Council at city and municipality levels is not very often heard from either their activities or their work, even I think that they may be organized somewhere, not at all, and some may be doing well. We and in the fight against corruption have to start from the base, so from the highest level. Well, we're not going to hunt big fish, and a bunch of big fish pass by like this undetected and unpunished. Therefore, we should all, together at our local levels in our cities, municipalities, focus on what to do and support the work of anti-corruption councils that would then ensure that citizens can report irregularities because a good number of citizens do not even know how to report any irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66384	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. We are now starting with the final words, yes, in front of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66385	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. So here's what Mrs. Anita Pocrnic Bilic said about corruption being a two-sided relationship between citizens and corrupt politicians. Well, that's actually true. And perhaps on the trail of that definition, we can also interpret this slight increase in ratings after it has been publicly announced that HDZ is a legally condemned corrupt political party. So, that this two-sided binding relationship between those voters you are so happy to call in all these discussions shows to what sad level the Republic of Croatia is trapped because all those citizens who voted for you, and aware of what HDZ as a party has turned into long ago, long ago, they know that by losing power, your authorities and they will be left without their positions, whether they are working relations, employment, care for all possible and impossible species, about the business relations of their companies. It is clear to me that as long as this parliamentary majority is not adopted, my strategy will not be adopted, but it will not prevent me from, until the end of this term in the legal procedure, directing all its work, from reforming electoral legislation, from reforming the territorial structure, from a different concept of access to information, from the new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which the existing body will turn into an office for the prevention of corruption with much, much stronger and different powers. It doesn't really make much sense to discuss it with you. And given that during today's debate, you have repeatedly mentioned my name and last name than you have spoken of some concrete measures that are actually not in your draft, since your colleague from your ranks, Antun Bauer, has asked if Marijana Puljak will be kicked out of our assembly club, so I will tell you this, only when all of you individually from Antun Bačić and then continue to resign to your own membership within the HDZ club, and then resign and join the HDZ as such because you are bothered by this label of the corrupt political party, only when you publicly fence yourself from all your ministers involved in the corruption affairs that are being investigated right now will you be able to ask me what I will do with any problems in my own ranks if and when it shows that there are at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66386	It is now up to Vice-President Sabina Vosovac to speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club I must read the SDP correctly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66387	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club considers it inappropriate in the HS to propose a proposal for a strategy to prevent corruption since 2021. At the end of 2021. when the year is already at an end. Secondly, we find it inappropriate that, in your proposal for a strategy as one of the objectives, you should specify strengthening the system of integrity and managing conflicts of interest while writing parallelly a new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in which you do not want to build a commitment that officials must adhere to the principles of action or that they must fully act with honor, honestly, responsibly, impartially and safeguard the dignity of their entrusted duties. We also find it inappropriate that in the strategy you aim to raise public awareness of the harmfulness of corruption and the necessity to report irregularities when those who point to corruption are punished, ridiculed, humiliated, and those who are suspected of corruption or caught with their fingers in jam are protected. And we also find it inappropriate to point out in your strategy that one of the goals of strengthening the transparency and openness of the work of the public authority body is when we parliamentary representatives ask parliamentary questions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we wait for months for the answers to be answered and incomplete even though the deadlines for the delivery of answers are 30 days. Likewise, I must remind you once again that it is important to strengthen the transparency and openness of the work of the public authority body, and just as the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia has refused to answer any questions concerning the way of the delegation to Finland by means of a government plane and the state cost. The Prime Minister refuses to give information that should be made public, so how do you think citizens come to the answer? We also consider it inappropriate to highlight the strategy as a goal of strengthening the anti-corruption potential in the public procurement system, and, in parallel, to amend the Rehabilitation Act in a way that is in art. The 42nd move is the obligation to apply the Public Procurement Act rather than to apply a rule that is yet to be passed by a minister in charge of spatial planning, construction and state property, or translated by Minister Darko Horvat, not this Assembly but Minister Horvat. What that rule will look like we have no idea, but in the past experience there is a reasonable doubt that it will be another polygon for a new stage of HDZ corruption. Just as the corruption polygon was the HRT whose former director Bačić left the prison yesterday, but that did not prevent you from naming yesterday a new director of the Swedish, who himself is in an eclectic conflict of interest. Like the polygon for corruption and the grand project you boast about, which is the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and which is being explored by some international institutions, specifically OLAF from which European money is intended for rural development and revitalisation of Slavonia and Baranja was shared to members of HDZ and members of their families. The same as the corruption polygon were state-owned companies such as FINA where they are employed without competitions, so we have one director in Zadar, Director Zmegac, Margetić Crnčec, while cancelling the lowest functions at the same time. We consider it inappropriate to propose such a strategy equally, while at the same time using the polygon for unconscious and potentially corrupt business in Croatia as a post office for its so-called so-called so-called business. large users allow so-called. Discounts and on the one hand loses millions of dollars left to large private companies, while at the same time asking the state for and receiving support in the same million amounts, which means that the lost profits are paid by citizens through the state budget. Who makes the arrangements and why, we don't have answers, etc., etc. And finally, says Prime Minister Plenkovic Sanader, no one will pin it on me, so you pin it on yourself with your own behavior and your own relationship with corruption, malfeasance and thieving. Let me remind you, let's just remember how the prime minister reacted to all the affairs that took place in his government from Kuštević, Maric, Daliæka, Kujundzic, Tolusic, Žalac, defended them until the last moment just because the opposition asked for their shift. So he wasn't worried about their corruption, he was worried about the political price of his shift, and now we should all believe that this strategy of preventing corruption will be consistently implemented by this government in order to say no way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66388	- Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic will now perform in front, finally in front of the Green-Left bloc representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66389	I thank the chairman. Well, first of all, I'm going to look back at some of these remarks that were made in the sense that we didn't make any suggestions about how this strategy would be better. So if you haven't noticed, in the first part, I was talking about exactly what's wrong with this anti-corruption strategy, so, for example, when you're talking about a public procurement system, you don't even mention what's one of the biggest problems in public procurement itself, and that's the collusions of illegal agreements that DCOM isn't competent to verify, so if you're talking about strengthening the state procurement commission, then maybe it's the area where they should be given more power. Does that say "measure"? No, I don't. Is the system of disclosure of such agreements made easier by the Competition Protection Agency? No, I don't. Who chooses people in the administrative council of the Competition Protection Agency? Politics. Who finds the problem of political influence on the media? Your strategy. What is the proposal not to elect the political majority and administrative council of the Agency for Electronic Media and the Croatian Supervisory Board and the director of HRT and the programme council of HRT, is there any proposal for this? There isn't. There isn't. So if someone really wanted to deal with this document by preventing corruption, then he'd be dealing with the mechanisms that are needed precisely in the places where corruption is generated, so if there's a problem with health corruption, then maybe what generates it is. Did you have five years? And 700 billion kuna in that time of budget to make health reform? Yes, it is. If you'd made it, you didn't. Did you have the opportunity to reform the system of education, introduce civic education and education in those last 5 years? With that 600-700 billion kuna? Yes, it is. Did you do it? You're not. Civil education and education in all countries is one of the key levers for preventing corruption and raising awareness of corruption because you have as the biggest problem here stated that here are the citizens of the poor who are not aware of the harmfulness of corruption, and that is why corruption is happening. So you didn't do it. And the key thing, judicial reform. And if anyone had prevented you from establishing mechanisms both in the Law on Criminal Procedure and in the Law on Courts and in the Law on Prosecution that, for example, when a second-degree court annuls the decision of a lower court that it must make its own decision and modify it, rather than return to a retrial, they would not have any tape of corruption affairs that lasted 12 years. but they'd end up. But that's the problem because you have a flow of time and justice that is not slow but slow so much that we don't remember where the affair started, answers. Is that you want a anti-corruption strategy then you would be carrying out exactly that kind of thing in the field of justice and legislative change. You didn't make them. So how, how do you plan to explain to the citizens the fact that you're going to be the next 10 years. To focus on increasing their awareness of the importance of fighting corruption when you will return the 14 million you have acquired with the corrupt criminal part to the money, whom, the same taxpayers you receive from the assembly, and now you will tell the citizens that there is also a problem in their unconsciousness, not in the mechanisms and the legal mechanisms that you are here in 30 years. so don't even try to talk from this stage that they're all the same because they're not all the same here. And responsibility isn't the same. And it's not the same to shake 14 million kunas from various public firms and what I don't know is Scoro's fighting with someone here. It's not the same you understand, it's not, it's not an affair. This is some political problem. This is an affair of all affairs. And you're still refusing to apologize for her and bringing in an anti-corruption strategy. So, checking the origins of the property, how many times you've had here suggestions to check the origin of the property as one of the key anti-corruption mechanisms and you don't want to and you refuse every time. Well, because it would be a problem, because if the IRS really did, you'd find that, for example, your officials have an extreme disproportionateness of property. Then things would be visible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So let's not talk about strategy. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much, Mrs. Bencic.]] if you do not want to implement the key reforms that this country needs. [[Intruder: Mrs. Bencic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66390	Thank you. It is now in front of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the final Mr. Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66391	Here I am going to pick up where I left off in my individual debate and remind you that the other day we chose the director of HRT. We did not take what we asked of the opposition to accept the ruling majority and to repeat the competition and make everything transparent. However, the document that we received regularly states that there is a need to further strengthen and inform the framework for the selection or appointment procedures, etc., etc. both for local self-government and for companies or for supervisory boards and management of companies and legal persons of special interest to the Republic of Croatia. How can we now believe that once this document is adopted, we will suddenly change the mental circuit and that all of this will work differently? We made mistakes, we made mistakes during the call for tenders, we pointed to errors in the selection or recognition or non-recognition of documents, we pointed to errors made during the phase of the talks, or when making decisions and proposals, and finally we had to stand here for a pay phone to defend and wait for the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure to make a decision that was in line with our demands. And I don't believe that the mental circuit will change overnight and that after that we will follow these measures that are prescribed inside in this, in this strategy of ours. My colleague Oreshkovic, I wanted to give a replica to your presentation, but I had no more replicas, but you said we should change the whole system or make a strategy for changing the whole system. To work on a whole system strategy before that, we need to set a goal to change the whole system. And who's going to set that goal, who's going to set it? ... I know you do, but most people have to adopt that. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So we'll never get there and we'll never change the whole system. On the other hand, what I have to commend in the document is.../incomprehensible/... means.../incomprehensible/...indicators that are placed inside, anyone who says that you.../incomprehensible/... are not good, they're good. If we're going to reach them, it's a big question that I think I need to be agreed with by the majority, and we're also going to have one problem with how we measure it. If you have read Deutsche Welle about the reasons for leaving young people from Croatia says primarily corruption, corruption. And how will we keep our young when we know in advance that it will not be prevented. Here's another example from the document and the example from our debate yesterday or the debate that happened yesterday, it doesn't matter at all, when we were discussing, the Law on the Resuscitation of objects damaged in the earthquake, we've heard more than once that there's a lot of corruption in public procurement. The claims were made by the ruling no corruption. See how many measures are listed in this document to prevent corruption in public procurement. I'll read it to you. So we have 11 of them. 11 measures are listed inside the document, and yesterday it was said that there is no corruption in public procurement. I mean, what are we talking about? And we've been paying attention that those provisions in the law are actually going to make more corruption possible and it hasn't responded to that and nothing's changed. So we ask ourselves at least how many of us are here from the opposition is it better to adopt a document like this or not have anything and not know what to expect at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66392	And now it's Mr. Damir Habian's turn to speak finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66393	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, here at the end of this very long debate today about this strategic document I could actually say that I am light and sorry that we spent these many hours on, in substance, looking at something that is not actually the subject of this point of the agenda, which we did not focus on the document as I was saying that I would like to talk more about the document itself, that we heard some constructive proposals, but actually we spent 90% of our time switching to us that we were corrupt, that we were a party accused of corruption, which, of course, is legally not standing, but obviously it is for some reason a problem for some to understand or it's impossible to understand, so I'll just say what I didn't arrive either in the introductory or in the name of the club or individually say, I'll pull another parallel in this situation, so if you have a legal person, you have a company, in that company you have a certain criminal act. Now you have a party, you have a responsible person, the president of the party who's being charged with a crime. According to you and your analogy, all the employees of this company are criminals and thieves. And you would ask that all these employees and employees of this company, these companies have to apologize. That's your logic and that's what you've been saying all day. And that's why we tell you, no, so that's the first reason. And the other reason is because it's a time with which this leadership has absolutely nothing to do with it. There are no collective responsibilities. There is an individual guilt and it is established by the Supreme Court's final verdict and I know it's all clear to you, but it just doesn't suit you in your day-to-day political agenda. It was now said here in final speeches that this strategy is being adopted in the 10th month. '21st, which refers to the period '21st. and in the '30s, however, no one mentioned, there is a previous Strategy, which in its name has a period of '15-20, but also, if you look at the action plan and the measures being implemented, some of the measures in the action plan are still in place. Among other things, even some laws that are in the process. So, in this way, doing the division, as if the world had stopped in 31.12.2020, I don't think the same is right until the end. Here the thesis has been retraced around the Committee on Conflict of Interest, again the thesis that the Commission is losing its powers despite the fact that some 2, 3 hours ago, I think that my colleague Bacic mentioned the topic, in 2012, the law was passed by the HDZ government, the SDP is filing a constitutional suit, 6, 5 or 6 powers that this commission had the cases of constitutional action, the Constitutional Court is abolishing these articles and the Committee is losing those powers and is now respecting the HDZ that it wants to abolish certain powers of the Committee. So again incorrect. And I listed it in an individual debate as and as the circle of powers of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest is expanding. And I tried to explain that article. 5 that are also not abolished and it is also incorrect that GRECO has made a recommendation that sanctions should be provided for it. He didn't say that. Therefore, by repeating the truth most often, the public gets the impression that you're telling the truth, but that's not true, so we'll keep repeating these things for the public to hear. It was mentioned here now in the final speech something about jobing without competition. I'm sorry he doesn't have a colleague now, Bencic, so we can! In 120 days in the City of Zagreb, all of what she has celebrated for us has succeeded, done in 120 days in the City of Zagreb. Employment without competition, conflict of interest, so in Holding, in Srebrenica, but they don't see it, it doesn't, it doesn't exist, there's just something called HDZ and actions related to HDZ. I repeat, let's go from time to time, clean up in front of your doorstep, and then look back at the other one. Then it'll come out credible, then it'll turn out fair, it just isn't. It's just not like this, and I'd be glad, I repeat, if we had talked more about the Strategy, if we had decided together on some measures, some steps, and then that would be an honest intention on your part. This is how it was one simple shot into the blank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66394	You, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we move on to the second and the last item of the agenda today: - Final bill on supplementing the Value added tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 113; Proposer is representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So, according to the article. 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate under Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the government delivered an opinion. Would the motionary like to give an additional explanation? Representative Anka Dark-Taritash. Yeah? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66399	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. There is one folk proverb, better to make the village extinct than the customs. It's a proverb that's absolutely holding on, so thanks to the opposition having a proposal, we get that reception by, say, here, just 18 hours ago, we're going to start discussing this point. But what's here is. We are also ready to discuss this at 2 a.m., if we are absolutely behind our proposal, and each time we stand, therefore, I propose to you today and ask you, colleagues and fellow MPs to support the proposal to reduce VAT to female hygiene supplies. So on hygienic cartridges and tampons from current 25% to 5%. It's a technical and procedurally very simple proposal. The reduction in tax rates can be achieved by supplementing one single article in the Value Added Tax Act. It's about art. 28 which prescribes that all products are taxed at a lower rate than 5%, however, this small supplement could mean an awful lot for more than 50% of the population of Croatia because women make up more than half of the population and one longer part of their life have the need to regularly buy hygiene products that I am talking about in my proposal. This, when summed up over the years, cost a lot of money and by accepting this proposal could significantly help all Croatian women. It is also a chance to join the vast majority of EU members who have in some way freed the cartridges and tampons from the full burden of tax administration. But before I explain my proposal in detail, I would like to give my sincere thanks to all my colleagues and colleagues to the representatives and MPs who have given me their open and full support at various stages of the proposal. For the first time through the list or signature of 16 MPs needed to discuss the proposal through one reading or emergency procedure, and the second time last week when 30 signatures were required to come to the debate at all. I have to admit, I've collected these 30 signatures from the club to the assembly room. When I told you what it was all about, everyone was ready to come to the plenary session, not to be sore at the bottom of the agenda until who knows when, as usual, it's a custom here with opposition proposals. And in the case of those 16 signatures and in the case of these 30 signatures, MPs and MPs of all the opposition political options gave their signatures in support of this proposal. From right to left and back. And for that, I thank you once again. Unfortunately, among these signatures there are no signatures, signatures of any representative or representative of the HDZ, I understand that I must admit it would not be easy to sign any opposition proposal when you are ruling. But now this bill of law in the debate will come to a vote as we normally say it when conditions are obtained and you have a chance, you have a chance to do one big thing. A team that is not done here in my opinion in any way on a political or ideologically colored proposal. This isn't the first time I've suggested reducing VAT to hygienic supplies like this. For the first time in April 2019, the proposal did not get a chance to discuss it, nor was the government manifested itself. The second time I referred the proposal to the procedure in February of this year, and now thanks to the broad support of MPs and MPs, we can discuss it. This time, the government sent an opinion that was very expected. In fact, the government is analysing and monitoring, and is intensively considering full tax reforms, so it will consider this proposal as part of this detailed consideration. But they didn't have the courage, but they didn't want to support it. I must say, and I must be honest, I have no need for this proposal to be adopted in any way by my name, I would have absolutely no objection and I would love to support this proposal coming from the government or from the ruling majority. It is important for the change to happen, to reduce VAT and thus at least make life a little easier by 100,000, so several million women in Croatia. Unfortunately, we all know how it ends when the government tells us to think about something. So she thinks for years and then after a year of thinking, she thinks as part of a major systemic reform, she needs to carry out a comprehensive analysis and after such a thinking and analysis that we usually get a response, namely, there's nothing or she'll show up too late for a few years in a less divisive form that doesn't achieve the goal. Since I suggested this 2.5 years ago, it's clear that we're going in that direction so nothing happens. That's what I'm afraid of, among other things, about this government's relationship with women. That same year, in 2019, I first proposed a reduction in VAT, such a recommendation was made by the Member States, the EU Member States were also given by the European Parliament. Meanwhile, we in Croatia remain one of the last members who still has the highest rate of taxes on women hygiene products. As we are in other things, so are we among the last in the Union. The vast majority of members of the Union today have a VAT rate of between 3% and 9% on hygiene products. I must stress immediately that a zero VAT rate as far as we are concerned is not possible except for those members who did not have 1.1.In '91, that's the case, for example. Ireland. We didn't have a VAT then, so we couldn't even have a zero rate, nor can we have it today. But that's exactly why nothing prevents us from introducing the lowest possible VAT rate of 5%. Otherwise, in 2018, the European Commission proposed a new tax plan within the EU, which also allowed a zero rate, and I hope that this proposal will eventually be adopted in the Council and Parliament. The Association for Human Rights and Civil Participation recently conducted the first study on menstrual poverty in Croatia. The survey showed 1/3 of women in Croatia must save on cartridges and tampons, and 10% of women cannot afford them at all. They're devastating numbers. 36.4% of respondents said they often have to buy less quality menstrual supplies because they are expensive. About 12% of Croatian women and girls do not have enough hygiene products, and about the same percentage cannot afford them at all. In this nearly 10% of subjects said they were using the same cartridge or tampon for more than eight hours because they did not have enough. The situation poses a serious risk to women's health, with around 5% being forced to borrow cartridges and tampons. Unfortunately, this is not only Croatian specificity, and in other countries women face these problems as well as 20% of women and in developed countries by buying sufficient quantities of quality products. Research has shown in some other countries that about 20% of pupils and students do not attend classes during periods because they have difficulty buying. The cartridges and tampons are the basic needs of women and should not be made available to them because they cannot be afforded. By accepting this proposal and reducing VAT and Croatia, Croatia would join a growing number of advanced countries that can fight menstrual poverty in ways that the state can combat. In fact, some countries go further in this fight, for example. Scotland became the first country in which women hygiene products are available for free and a whole series of other countries announces that they will do the same while some have already introduced free tampons and cartridges in schools and universities. Among them are England, New Zealand is announcing the move in France as well. Otherwise, GLAS started this year, and such a proposal was referred to in a procedure in the form of two draft laws, one for primary schools and secondary schools, and the other for colleges and these proposals are collecting dust in the reality of the agenda. After all, we'd be discussing this proposal today who knows when, probably never if it wasn't for the great support of you MPs and MPs. In Croatia there are bright examples, one of them is the principal of the Varazdin Transport and Engineering School, whose initiative has provided students with free cartridges and tampons. The Technical School of Ruđer Boskovic from Vinkovac was also encouraged by this example, before the Croatian government reacted to the private sector, so Always has already donated 200,000 stakes to schoolgirls, and these days their action "One for the Other" is taking place, in which each of the collected packages is one contribution to schoolgirls who can't afford them. According to our calculation for such a move, our country should be able to allocate about 35 million kuna per year to all students of higher grade primary schools, high school students and students. For comparisons, the cost of the Croatian Office outside the home country is 84 million kuna, the Ministry of Defence plans to spend around 700 million kuna on expenses for services. I don't mind that, but I do mind that we don't have any money for our girls and young women. The reduction of VAT to cartridges and tampons is important for at least two reasons. The first is that it's something women need, just like the need, for example. some basic foods. The highest tax rate on such products is, in fact, a kind of female tax, thus creating an imbalance within the tax system itself and one of its main parts of value added tax. The second reason is that too much taxation encourages so - called so - called taxation. Menstrual poverty, about data that are really worrying I was already saying, the inability to buy enough quality hygiene products affects health, confidence and even participation in community life and social activities for a large number of women and girls, is something that the state must react to. It's unacceptable for me not to say cruelly that women's hygiene products are taxed as a luxury and women pay high taxes. Why? Just because they're women. Similarly, we must not allow pupils and students to be victims of menstrual poverty to be forced to miss school or any other part of normal everyday life. It's even more cruel, but ultimately certainly, but no less important it may have dangerous consequences on health. This proposal is not a question of worldview, left or right politics, opposition or ruling, this is a civilization issue that shows our relationship with women. This was also shown by all MPs and MPs who, regardless of political colors, supported by their signature this bill to come into debate, even in this second term. Plenkovic's government does not share that opinion and has not shown that it understands the problem. It will not show its washed European face in this case, but regardless of the fact, I will not give up the VAT reduction on women's hygiene products. I hope that this proposal continues when we vote on it will have broad support from colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. But hope dies last, so somehow I don't give up hope that at least HDZ deputies will understand how important the proposal is and that some will, along with their party counterpart, support this law. I'm a lot of years old, but I'm still naive, but what do we do to him? They may also be encouraged by the fact that other countries in the EU, the European Parliament and the Commission are going in different ways towards addressing this problem in the world that have understood the importance of tax cuts. Let's say for example. Kenya was in 2004. abolished the tax on cartridges and tampons, so at this moment, Croatia lags 17 years behind Kenya. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66400	The first replica of Mrs. Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66401	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, first of all, I thank you for your initiative, which has been translated into this draft amending law. I can't help thinking that at some point I've even thought that we might have a consensus on this, but I'm as naive as you, the IDS Representatives Club, will support this initiative and I'd like to ask you why the government doesn't accept this proposal, why such a disappointing refusal, delaying with this proposal when here's one of the facts that the average Croats are born with approximately 7.5 thousand kuna of tax debt to their own country, and that's just because she's a woman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66402	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66403	I have to admit, I kind of thought that it would really prove that we were a little different, that we were going to move on and that we needed to invest in democracy. All day we've been discussing the strategy when it comes to corruption, imagine one step at all to ruling say okay, the proposal is fine, we'll back it up, let's move on. The more I didn't collect signatures out there this summer or before summer to come to the debate, the more I thought we'd try to do the debate sometime at 10 months, so let the law go into effect 1.1 for a reason to be technically all right. I've made an effort, I've called the Secretary of Staff, I've told the Minister we'd go with such a proposal to see everything else and you know at the level of the talks all right, but unfortunately at the voting level, and I've already seen it on the committees this proposal won't get support. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66404	Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66405	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Taritash, since this is about a proposal for a law on the addition of value added tax, which is actually part of financial laws or tax laws, it would ask you in this section where you explain the consequences that the law will have, among other things, that it is about the needs used exclusively by women, and the additions will reduce the inequality that currently exists in the Croatian tax system. So now I'm interested in what gender inequality you were referring to in the Croatian tax system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66406	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66407	Thank you very much for this question. So it's absolutely clear what I mean. I'm guessing no man in this country or in the world uses a hygienic cartridge and tampon. Therefore, the benefits, it is used by women, women of certain lifetimes and pay in Croatia tax as if it were luxury, as you pay taxes on whiskey or anything else. Why? Just because they're women. So, because you're a woman, you buy certain supplies and pay taxes. And that's what inequality is about, and that's what we're talking about, and that's why this isn't something that we're getting out of a little finger right now. So, menstrual poverty is all about all countries, about menstrual poverty where you pay taxes determined only because you're a woman. That's what I assume you see in your household.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66408	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66409	Article 238, you did not answer my question because this finding refers to the equality that exists in the Croatian tax system in general. So let's say men have to shave their faces, and then they might say, to lower their taxes on razor blades and shaving creams. [[And some women.]] So I don't think you've given me the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66410	Of course you've realized it's a replica, right? and you have a warning. [[Intruder: I'm afraid there's no help here.]] Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66411	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you've made it very clear that this is neither a political nor a secular issue, but the fact is that this response to the government that rejects your initiative is actually being discriminated against by the good half of our population, so clearly it's not the state's concern for the female part of the population, and then some local middle schools that are a little more aware started with initiatives to reduce menstrual poverty. Your example is the city of Varazdin, on the initiative of our SDP councilman, also the initiative of the SDP councilman in Bjelovar, but here the mayor is probably still a bit of a calculation and reflection. I have prepared an initiative here to reduce menstrual poverty and in my county where the founder of primary and secondary schools in cooperation with sponsors in the toilets of all primary and secondary schools would set up cartridges so as to make this menstrual poverty a little easier with free cartridges. What do you think, I mean, where's the problem? With our government? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66412	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66413	Thank you very much. So you know our prime minister has two faces. One face is the nice and washed European face, and the other is the face that comes back to Croatia and then we have Orban in silk gloves. And absolutely to be asked at EU level he would say that Croatia is thinking about it too, that we will be you, but once it receives a concrete proposal, there are 122 reasons why it should not do something. And of course there are units of local self-government, there are schools that I have listed here that really take care of and those free students can get their hygienic pads or tampons for free. There is no coincidence in the draft amendments to the law, if we have free textbooks, if we have the possibility of free textbooks, why do we not have the possibility of free hygienic cartridges and tampons? Why do certain municipalities and cities really not make sure that women, therefore, are alive? age when they need it for free. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66414	Thank you. We have the next replica of the esteemed representative, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66415	Dear colleagues, here's a greeting to all the women and three MPs who are here dared to stay in the assembly, talk about this subject. In addition to the importance of tax cuts, in 5 pardons and 5, I was referring to MPs, excuse me, except the importance of tax cuts in the elimination of menstrual so-called. Do you think it is important to introduce and sexual education as a mandatory subject in our schools and in general how important education of this is today being conducted in national schools as an inter-species topic of health is, there is no, we still don't have the results of such schooling, so how important is education at all on this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66416	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66417	Thank you very much. So I'm always trying to compare it to something else. When it comes to the value of an apartment, then it's always a location, location, location, when it comes to what kind of young people we're raising, what kind of young people I have, then it's a key to education, education, education from the earliest age that starts with kindergartens, and then it goes on. And the importance of civic education is extremely important, it's extremely important from the earliest age of life that children learn to think, that children learn that they have the right to make their own decisions, and that they are not the decisions they are forced to make, and that is important to us throughout the whole system, not as some kind of interlocutor, and then to whoever they are not, it should be an absolute object, like everyone else, that everyone has the right to have a different perception and to live differently, to live as he wants to learn about financial aspects. learn about democracy and about a number of other things. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66418	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed Glamuzine representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66419	Thank you, Chairman. Our colleagues, Taritash, in this meeting this year, passed a law banning the use of some single plastic products, and on a warrant from the EU, forced us to do so even though there were such initiatives and legal proposals that were then rejected. Do you expect us to have to wait for this change to force us from the EU, or is this government able to show a little progressive vision, so do it itself?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66420	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66421	As I said at the end of my presentation somewhere, I'm kind of always hoping that hope dies last, but unfortunately I have a lot of experience, so then I know that some things won't happen. It's about 2016. We talked about how some other countries should and should have the theme of having their fathers equally on maternity leave, not that, but that they should indeed be a certain number of days, and that all directives, or any decision by the EU, are going to be in this sense, and that it would be good for Croatia to be one of the first countries. Of course, the government then refused and said one whole solution again, so through a complete solution and here we are, five years jump after jump, and here we are in 2021. and in 2021. When the government thought hard, thought well and well, I read that it will now be in the new bill. Well, jump by jump in one five years, we're up to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66422	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66423	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Representative Dark Taritash. The menstrual poverty shows where Croatia is today, not only by its economic indicators but also by its attitude towards women, according to the protection of women, according to respecting their dignity. Lack of school due to the inability to buy basic hygiene products leads to worse grades, weaker learning outcomes, and later to weaker life chances. How do you interpret this devastating fact that you have received almost the unison support of opposition women, and almost no or no non-existent support from women of the ruling majority? As I see here, most of you are only women present, and you give your attitude as if none of you have the right to your own opinion, even when it comes to these, you will agree with me, not parties and not world-wide topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66424	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66425	Thank you very much. So I think in the last part of your question you gave the answer. So in the hallway or somewhere on the stairs when you meet a member of the HDZ, she will declare that, a good proposal, quite handsome, but in the debate she will certainly not support or support the government's position, and we will also see in the vote absolutely the way it will vote. I kind of think you should always go and think a step forward and that every generation of us should be somehow better at thinking than the generations that were before. Imagine these sensations that would be that in this assembly an opposition proposal that is neither political nor secular is it simply real human, with human rights gets unison support and ruling They'd say we were doing a step forward. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66426	Thank you. Honorable representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66427	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash. Well, it hasn't been so long since that situation we had here in the Croatian Parliament when there was an opposition proposal to amend the Penal Code. The opposition proposal went precisely to improve the position and status of women who experienced sexual abuse. Let's remember when the opposition turned its back here on the ruling because they turned their backs on women. After our action here in the assembly, something unexpected happened, the HDZ and the ruling majority took the initiative and installed it in their proposal for the Penal Code. Do you expect this proposal to end that way, because if you expect us to go into new actions, maybe the next story is free contraception for women.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66428	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66429	Thank you very much. So, unfortunately, I don't expect this to happen and to take this proposal by ruling and to come to the agenda, even though I don't have any, I really don't have any problem taking it, let them make it because that's how we helped women. He certainly won't come by the end of this year, do you know that everything that's related to the tax system somehow goes with 1.1. And then applies for next year, I understand that and that I have no problem understanding it at all. So you know when he'll be here? It will come when it comes from EU level to a certain directive and when the directive is obtained, then we will have one proposal in accordance with the directive. Why do we have to wait for the directive? Why do we have to wait for someone to tell us what we need to do? Well, we know about this problem. Well, I got you two schools that are really taking care of their students today. So why do we have to wait for someone to tell us something? what we know. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66430	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66431	Thank you, Vice President. So, esteemed colleagues, here I am trying to figure out why the government rejected this proposal of yours. Let's face it, it's not about an excessive amount of funds that the government would be deprived of, or the budget of the Republic of Croatia if they accepted this proposal. Is this perhaps because it is an opposition proposal or a lack of empathy, because here, the entire public of Croatia has had the opportunity to listen to about the parallel world in which our ministers live, so one of them talked about the wonderful life in Croatia, how people are coming back from the outside, how our standards grow, wages grow, pensions grow, means what else but the parallel world. What do you think the reason for the rejection is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66432	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66433	So I repeat your question and I can answer you in such a wash, I can answer you in one sentence, so one sentence, since the opposition request, the proposal, it won't pass. If the opposition proposal had been made today on 21 October 2021, that proposal would not have gone away because it is not one comprehensive, comprehensive solution in which we were to indicate which, which day was yesterday, which day will be tomorrow. But, my people, we so ruling, you are so consciously and deliberately leaving Croatia at the bottom of certain elements on purpose. Do you not want Croatia to move forward? Whether or not you want to see some step, but leave it at the bottom of Croatia on purpose, so it will be. So this is one thing that's very simple, I repeat by who knows which time, it's not world-famous, it's not politically colored, so now women who are from the center to the left they have one option, and the women have one option. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Right, the woman's a woman. [[Employee: Dear Representative Peric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66434	Intruder: Honored representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66435	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash. We've also discussed this on the board, and it's actually my question, which is why when you put in this request only the needs for cartridges and tampons, which is why it's not the other hygiene needs, because for one woman it's also completely important and not just a woman, but the whole family. Therefore, here it is aimed at creating animosity towards the government because it does not help women. This is clear to all, and you do not mention that 2017, 2019, 2020. VAT was reduced to a number of products for children, for food, for utility, etc., therefore, it should be spoken of realistically and correctly, as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66436	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66437	Ma'am. Peric, therefore, if I am just as bad and deliberately now do some kind of animosity towards the government, so let the government be above it. Let him say, look, there's a mean, mean representative there, but we know about the problem, and we're the ones who are going to parallelly give this bill and pass the law and say yours is wrong because it's like that, but we have each other, wonderful, wonderful because the provision is fine. 38 is the same when we write it or you write it. How far do you want to go? So when I tell my wife, listen, we should run, then he says it, but you know, maybe that door should move three inches away, and look, there's this, we should do it like that, let's do it whole. It's absolutely clear what we're talking about here. If the government really has this one feeling, so let it come with a proposal, so let the hygienic pads and tampons be part of another proposal, I'll be the first one always for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66438	Thank you. The next one will be a respected representative of the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66439	Comrade Anka, if I could, I'd have two hands that I have and two that I don't have, raised for your proposal. 2, 3 years, I know myself, I've been sharing this initiative with you, and I wish at this point that the head of the Ministry of Finance is women. I think a woman would understand why it's important to root out menstrual poverty, that it's important to prevent some girl from going to school just because she's embarrassed because she doesn't have to use hygienic cartridges, that as a substitute she uses old rags, toilet paper and old paper and that actually no woman is to blame for being born as a woman, and that biological fact itself determines her in a way that she has to pay something that a man doesn't have to, 120 million kunas in the budget of a year pay exactly on this, on this level, on this basis, just because they're women. And there are women in Croatia who unfortunately cannot afford these hygienic needs and because we need to recognize why it is important to enable them to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66440	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66441	Thank you very much. So this is one topic that is absolutely clear. If you want to understand it, you absolutely understand it, if you don't want to understand it, you will never understand it. This is a subject that is very difficult to defend what the Government has answered in its own, so wait and all the rest. Croatia has the opportunity to show that it really takes care of its residents. Unfortunately, he won't recognize it. It'll be recognized when it's time or when someone else tells her. So there's no need or desire at all or anything to turn this into a world-famous issue because it's not a secular question. It can only turn into some kind of animosity if someone wants to. The government has a great opportunity, whether they take advantage of it or not. Who knows which way she won't use it, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66442	Thank you. Now make it on behalf of the club. ... A. Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This one. Does the government's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you are, the Honorable Zdravko Zrinašić, Director of the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66443	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I hope that my wife and my two daughters do not look at me, this one does not mean that I want to say that the government is insensitive or that the government does not contain any minister in its ranks, and that what the Government has proposed, above all, and thanks for this proposal and, in principle, in terms of the objectives, supports it. I will not repeat what the distinguished representative has already stated that the government has been thinking, we have only cited this in the context of what was and in the context of a proposal that goes within or outside the framework of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's '20-'24 programme. and what we pointed out briefly in this response where it was proposed not to support the proposal but for these reasons no misunderstanding, which is therefore the one system we are looking for in the context of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme. Not because this would now have a significant impact on the budget, but a few key things that, in this case, I can say as the Ministry of Finance, we have considered, and that is also the fragmentation of some requirements that are in the context of any regulation if this is not systematically set up, can lead to some other effects that are unwanted. For example, in this case, I do not see why some other goals that can be associated with this proposed one are also referred to as medical supplies or the needs of other subjects, for example children who would also have certain needs of medical aid that we now have for disabled people, and for other needs, for example. We don't. What about the objectives when certain groups of societies may have certain suggestions, I do not say in this case, but generally they can be brought or opened up a space of discrimination against those other groups. And the key effect of this or what the Ministry of Finance can say, the reduced rate that we have so far and which have gone on more than one thing, and general food and medicines, including, above all, the non-receptive ones, and I'm going to say example, energy and municipal services only where it could have had a later impact on other regulations, I don't think of energy, I'm afraid, when the tax rate is lowered to lower and the price of that product. In this case, if we take that, I don't remember, and don't get this one wrong if I'm going to say it wrong, I don't remember whether there are any producers of these supplies in the Republic. Great, team, team, team, that's better, so if the rate is lower, will we get a cheaper product? I am not sure and I do not believe it because, therefore, the intensity and what we have said is that we are going to consider how to achieve the desired effects in terms of the objectives that would be the message of this regulation does not mean that it must be through a tool called value added tax, but perhaps through some other tools, because if it is going to be poured into the trade margin or the promotion of an import lobby or something else, it is certainly not even the intensity of a respected representative, and neither would the Government of the Republic of Croatia want it, so that tomorrow we have this lower rate of value added tax, and that the price of the product remains what it is. In short, as we said here, I thank you, therefore, for what is proposed, I am not going to say that as the distinguished representative said that we will not know as much as the Government thinks about it, as we have done every year in terms of one package. This is a minor problem in terms of value added tax, but whether it will achieve the desired effects in terms of price if only the value added tax rate is reduced in the context of non-receptive medicines remember, we had a problem, people don't get a prescription so let's buy it so we'll give you a lower rate of 5%, what happened in a month we have the same prices that were previously reduced rates. Where did that profit come from? It's on a trade margin. Therefore, the intensity of praise is commendable with the need to find a way to ensure that it is not poured into the margins of traders but to be reduced, in the reduced price of this product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66444	Thank you. We have more replicas, she is the first respected representative of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66445	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you've made some confusing remarks here. On the one hand, you're saying that you're going to make changes in the package, the government has responded that systematic and full tax reform is being planned. Well, here's your move, so you're doing that package you imagined. I personally do not understand here the amendment to Article 38 of the Additional Article and) is required. Is that such a big problem? Second thing, you're saying if the rate is lower, will we get a cheaper product? Again in Article 38, VAT has been reduced by a series of products here to 5%, to 13%. And then you calculated whether it would be a cheaper product, so accept this initiative, very little is asked about the change in technical, and it will mean a lot to all of us, to all women. So some of us can afford hygienic supplies. And your wife and daughters can, but as many as they can't. Therefore, do not be insolent and change what is required.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66446	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66447	Thank you very much. In fact, I was speaking in the context of a government programme that set certain goals and, of course, one dynamic which implements these objectives in terms of the government's mandate and through various other elements, and not just tax regulations. And as for what you said about this reduced rate, I personally think that your concrete proposal may be easier to implement in other ways, not through tax, tax policy, given that it's very specific and something that is lifelike. All of this other one that we have reduced rates, etc. were heading towards or stimulating this particular consumption in this case, for example bread etc. anything that goes on drugs, everything that is the life needs of citizens, and that also through the tax system in the case of value added tax stimulates, which does not mean that they are not stimulated in any other way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66448	The next replica, respected representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66449	Thank you, Vice President. Well, actually, yeah. I'm gonna go over the part that's confusing, which is what my colleague Maric said. First of all, we are not sure that by reducing VAT, there will be a reduction in retail price, and on the other hand, the Government is preparing a full programme for the part, although it will, however, prepare the programme even though it will know there will be no reduction in retail prices. And then you shouldn't, then you should give up that program. And the last excuse is that it will be settled because, in any case, it will be done as defined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia 2020 programme-2024. The tampon taxi is not in it, therefore, that means that tax relief will not be and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66450	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66451	Well, thank you very much. I'd sum this up to one thing, if it seems confusing to you, not to me. The government programme of the Republic of Croatia is something that binds us who, in fact... We propose certain regulations, the Government programme certainly does not contain only changes to tax regulations and a number of other things they need or at least under quotes should be certain reform measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so in this part. Just to be clear, if certain things are not explicitly mentioned, they may be logically linked in certain measures, as they would often say, to clean the streamstones that water is easier to flow, and not that it must be listed in the Government's programme every detail that the government would propose tomorrow. I'm not even saying that it's going to have to be and catch up on every detail in the context of any proposal, but it's commendable to consider and to try to fit into the government's programme and certain changes to the rules, if necessary, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66452	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66453	My dear secretary, it's nice to hear that you have in your apartment, your house an opposition that thinks as well as an opposition in the Parliament and thank your lady and daughter. However, I would invite you here to accept this proposal not because of your lady and your daughters, not because of ministers and secretaries working in ministries, but because of their friends and colleagues and acquaintances who have problems with menstrual poverty. It's extremely important, and if you suggest anything else in the package, if it's going to be more VAT cuts to medical needs, pardon supplies or something like that, we'll accept it by hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66454	Here, thank you very much. I understand, and I may be repeating myself, but given the use of the term, let me make a personal statement. This when we talk about menstrual poverty draws more on the measures of the Ministry of this, of another ministry that such things from its spirit and jurisdiction should be solved as it solves other things. I think there should be synergy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66455	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66456	Thank you. Here, it's nice to be part of this debate where we're representatives of the minority. So, as far as this proposal is concerned, we as a club have signed a colleague Mrak-Taritash, and what you're saying is the question of whether the VAT reduction is actually going to lead to a final price reduction, we have a reduction in VAT on certain products, right? Food, on diapers is 13%, on drugs 5% and went to these measures precisely to reduce prices. For some products, this has led to a decrease, some do not, and if the government is considering some comprehensive VAT reduction, then it should consider all these hygiene needs. Also, since we have price and food growth and everything else, in cutting, cutting, and VAT, but also, fuel consumption because we know that all of this ultimately affects the price final products, not on [[Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. /]] the freezing of fuel prices. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66457	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66458	Well, thank you very much. So it's all logical thinking when they're set up, put all things on the table how to end a fiscal year or any year in a way that balances the state budget, and make it better for citizens in terms of those expenditures that the state can reduce compared to its citizens. So, what you're saying is whether it's going to be a excise charge tomorrow or making it easier on certain products, but hygienic, etc., it's all a matter of conversation. As far as the excise duty is concerned, I was looking at that price structure that this one was for certain types of fuel, I can show you that graph later, there was a lot of trade margins represented in one product, even more than 50% well, all of this can be corrected or otherwise watched, but look at the software that is set, what are the goals. And here if the target service, then... [[Thank you. Thank you. Dear Representative Peric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66459	../ Intruder: Thank you. Thank you. Dear Representative Peric..
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66460	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. As I said, the question is why not ask for all the hygiene supplies, so that it contributes to families, not just the female population. But what is worth noting is that there are a number of programmes through EU social programmes which can also... certain projects that can be helped precisely by women, whether in schools or in different other places where you can actually donate in this way and reduce the very consequences that possibly have of this menstrual poverty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66461	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66462	Here, thank you very much for your question. Just in this direction, I also wanted to suggest that we have other structural units in this case, the Ministry of Labour, the pension system and the social policy which has already solved certain things from its own circle, so that if we have free books, etc., some things can be solved in this way, while thus eliminating the possibility for traders to act at a retail price by letting down such a rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66463	Dear representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66464	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, since we're talking about value added tax today, I think we should consider things from that point of view. In general, more exceptions than the basic VAT tax rate are considered to have an impact on lower VAT efficiency and on the increase in standard rate, which has been shown from our experiences and when the rates have been reduced because we started to 19 and came to 25% of VAT, but we have had a lot of exceptions and you, of course, as a representative of the government, are aware that when taken somewhere, when someone had to be taken and taken, and that is precisely what you would like to point out how much there is, because if each initiative satisfied the VAT at the standard rate, it would become an exception and not a rule and what you think of that so-called. A pointal reduction in tax rates when someone asks and so on?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66465	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66466	Well, thank you very much, just as I was saying at the outset these frigmentary changes are particularly pronounced in the requirements regarding VAT change. The name itself speaks of added value, here you would essentially have a case if the entry tax was 25, and the exit tax, let's say 13 or 5, in order to be a certain subsidy for that trader in terms of deduction of his pretax, not as much as this would be the desired effect. The point and the point of the VAT is that it is neutral for an economic operator and what would be optimal is if one tax rate could be taxed in this VAT case and that social or any other policy is conducted through institutions that are still represented today in all EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66467	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66468	Thank you. Secretary of State, here tonight, we've heard a few questions from you here, and we've heard that you're still not sure if the price of finished products will decrease naturally. If the VAT rate is reduced, you ask yourself and you say that you should do it in some other ways. What hasn't been enough time, the initiative is so much public that the government may need to take this problem more seriously and form a working group maybe even see if there's some kind of analysis that can be carried out because if you won't insist on that, we here in the assembly will continue to insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66469	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66470	Well, thank you, I'm sure the government doesn't sit and do other analysis, so along with the other wheels, one might be this one. That's why I wanted to say, and that I can't, as a representative in this case, jump out of the government's opinion and put it out in the open, open this one to the promoter that it's not explicitly rejected the proposal, but that it's going to be evaluated and see what can be done in this sense in some future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66471	The esteemed representative of Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66472	I thank the chairman. Mr. Secretary of State, the movie tickets are in the 5% VAT category, and I paid 45 kuna this weekend for the last Bond. I paid less for that Bond before, and the VAT was the same. And it's perfectly clear to me that it's not the government's fault that I paid for this more than the last time the VAT stayed the same. So you can also do what the government can, reduce that VAT, so if it doesn't affect the price we'll be mad at the manufacturers, at the sellers, but give you a chance for the Croats and your wife and your daughters to be proud of what the government has symbolically done as much as the government could, and if you don't, then I can only suggest that when they ask you tonight why you don't tell you that these laws are passed, changes are refused, mostly those who have never refused to understand and understand why this is required.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66473	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66474	Oh, thank you. In view of this sweating you place a great burden on my conscience in terms of my family, but indeed here we are very few present men of this complete understanding and again my appeal, I cannot or will never say anything that you will hunt me down by word tomorrow, and I am not making a final decision about it. I said what stands in this letter and what we can promise, which is, and not only promised but also done, and that is absolutely taken into account this proposal and see how to ensure that it is introduced into practice, not necessarily that it must be through VAT if, if it is expected because here, as far as I've seen and colleague Mrak-Taritash has presented her data, as far as I've seen these simulations, it moves on the relationship between 40 less whether, 44 to a maximum of 88 million kuna differences, this just... What? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66475	Wait a minute. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66476	Yeah, so that some playing with, with, with those rates must result in the desired goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66477	Thank you very much. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66478	Dear Secretary of State, I'd just like to point out the injustice of the tax system. I wish you could explain to me why hygienic cartridges, hygienic cups, tampons according to the tax system of luxury because they are treated at a tax rate of 25%, luxury higher than a movie ticket, than hotel accommodation, from a concert ticket, from daily newspapers whose tax rates are 5% or extremely 13%, so the tax system looks at it. And the woman I repeat, her hygiene of these menstrual needs are not a luxury to her it's a direct need, I'll also say the emergency while the movie ticket, the daily paper, the urn, the coffin, the seed, the hotel accommodation they're not, and the tax system actually treats these hygiene supplies as a bigger luxury than these things that are taxed with a much lower rate and we're asking that this injustice be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66479	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66480	Here's a thank you, so maybe just a brief correction. The law on luxury tax has been abolished, we don't have that, that tax tax. We have the truth of the will of the largest, after Hungary, the highest VAT rate as some other taxes we don't have, and they have the same countries that we like to compare with, so we always respond when we're fragmentaryly comparing to someone and we say this is worth it, and this one has 300 other motives that, the third one doesn't mention it because it's important that it goes in that direction. Here you present examples that have gone to a reduced rate of tourism, for example, we constantly have a mantra that 20% of GDP is income from tourism and of which both countries and economics are living and full of tax this VAT because it also treats a good part of these services as export. This part and this segment, which is essentially if we take these effects that colleague Dark Taritash or those that I got here in the calculation, are relatively less significant than the problem of the tax system. It's just a matter of how to achieve the desired goal that, which we point out all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66481	Representative Posavec The guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66482	Thank you, dear Vice President. You're probably a failure, quite accidentally and unintentionally here in your presentation, saying that this tax correction would also cause a need for correction in other categories of society. So here I want to make it perfectly clear that women are not another category of society. Women are not and must not be secondary to any issue for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nor for individuals in the Republic of Croatia. When you speak like this, you put entirely on the side of the fact that menstruation is born conditioned by the birth of a woman and that this results in the imposition of hygiene supplies for women being born into childbearing taxes. The Fertile age of women aged 15 to 50, and this government is filled with the mouth of demographics, natalities and better demographic images of Croatia. Well, this is one of those questions, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66483	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66484	Here, thank you very much and thank you for the correction, if that's what I said. The point was to compare, here we said under quotes positive discrimination that in the context of the tax system means you're doing some exception to the rule, but we have some other layers of society in this case I thought of children who may have, who are shortsighted and need glasses, so they may not have a reduced rate on frames or glass etc., so that in the tax section this chain can so spread into value added tax to a mass of other things. And that's why I'd prefer to have that sort of thing solved through the social policy that I just mentioned to my colleague Peric, if that's how she can be led astray. That is why it is very important for me to say that the government is not only the Ministry of Finance and the Law on Value Added Tax but rather a number of other regulations that regulate the work of this entire system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66485	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66486	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, respected secretary of state, this government, or the previous one, had 5 packages of tax reform and, in most cases, had one of the most significant, one of the features was the introduction of a reduced VAT rate, but after that, they could read each time, saying that VAT reduction is a poor tax measure, according to the reduction in taxes on food products most profited from traders. The reduced VAT on food was supposed to save the average household 872 a year, of course none. The new VAT rate is in force, the hosts say the prices remain the same. It's really embarrassing to be a woman here today and say that you're against something that's going to cost less to any woman. However, it would also remind us that we were all women in 2012 when all products were produced, as well as tampons and cartridges, increased VAT from 23% to 25%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66487	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66488	Thank you very much, all of these examples, I didn't want to read them I have this whole, the whole review of this in the past not only for the mandates of this government as the rates moved and as certain effects of the State Statistics Office followed in terms of prices and the causal relationship did not always, it was not this more often if it was a lower rate that would be reduced and the price. And on the other hand, when we look at the comprehensiveness of tax reform, we must also pay attention to the sustainability of the state budget. And I was saying in the introduction, and again, I'm building on this part, this amount isn't so important that it would work, it would act in any way more significantly negatively on the state budget, but if we set the goal of getting all the women and getting at more affordable prices because we said menstrual poverty as a definition, that's what that means, not to spill it into the pockets of wholesalers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66489	Thank you. I am now opening the debate, the first one on behalf of the club of MPs should be spoken by respected Croatian sovereigns, respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, without losing his right to speak, and then the first respected representative of Katica Glamuzino will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66490	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and two colleagues, good evening to you. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I would like to first point out that two details are needed to adequately understand this proposal. First, the existence of menstrual poverty is insufficiently recognised, yet the growing phenomenon in society and the second tax on menstrual products is practically women tax, sexist tax. Products proposed to reduce the VAT rate are necessary hygiene products and are not optional, and worryingly large parts of the population are creating a cost that is not simply met simply because it is then caused by improvised, inadequate and unhealthy alternative solutions, and it is not uncommon to miss school classes, student lectures, business obligations. All of this, as well as many other related situations, are detailed in the research conducted by the Association for Human Rights and Civil Participation Parity, which was not long ago presented in this house on the Assembly Committee on Gender Equality. The level of poverty in our country is worrying, spinning around 20% of the 2019 report, and it is expected that the report will show an even higher rate of poverty after this long pandemic period. It is important to note that in Croatia but also in Europe there is poverty of female origin. Women's pensions are lower, women's wages are lower and women are constantly at greater risk of poverty. When we add to all this the fact that women have an additional monthly cost that the other sex does not have, it becomes clear that menstrual poverty must not be ignored but must act hastily. I repeat, products proposed to reduce VAT rates are necessary hygiene products are not optional, and among other products currently found in that category, the proposed VAT rates of 5% are e.g. cinema tickets and scientific magazines that can hardly be claimed to be necessary for the entire sex of the population. I guess the injustice is obvious to anyone with basic cognitive abilities. For us at the Social Democrats Club, this injustice is obvious and clear and we will act against it first by voting for this proposal by colleague Mrak Taritash. It is clear to us, however, that by accepting such proposed amendments to the law, there may not be a fundamental solution to the problem for a number of reasons, we do not know whether all the entities in the sales chain are really going to translate the VAT rate into an adequate price reduction, but then that is someone else's responsibility. Our responsibility as a representative and advocate in this legislative body is to ensure legal preconditions and thus enable sellers to act in a socially responsible manner. It is also clear that the reduction in the price by the change in VAT rates will not be significant, we are talking about maybe two, three kunas, and those women who can hardly single out, say, 25 kunas for these products will not be significantly easier to single out 23 kunas. And we're aware of that, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't start somewhere. Keep in mind that only Hungary has a higher VAT within the EU, it would be great if our government in this matter at least made a more significant distance from Hungary with a maximum VAT reduction on these products. Different methods also make it important to ensure free availability of these products for those whose financial conditions make it difficult because this is a necessary hygiene product for women's health, but an act of reduced taxes, tax rates, this legislative body would do what we can and must do, and this is the first step in the right direction. I don't know if you've noticed and noticed and some major world producers have started marketing campaigns that touch menstrual poverty topics, which may be the best indicator of the announcement of changes that will take place on this topic at the world level. At this point, the reduction or zero rate of taxes on these products has a large number of U.S. states, Australia, Canada, Germany, but also some countries that we like to think are better standing economically as well. Rwanda and Kenya, so they can. And will Croatia? Does Croatia want it? At EU level at this time, as counterpart Taritash said, it is not possible to have a 0% tax rate, the lowest applicable is 5%, but Britain, for example, has allowed Brexit to go to 0% of what they immediately did at the beginning of this year. Ireland has a rate we heard of 0% because they had it before the introduction of a 5% minimum that was long ahead of the rest of the EU on this issue. And Scotland is just an unattainable light example for all other countries in the EU and the world, namely the first country in the world in which the newer legislation provides that hygienic menstrual products are completely free of charge to anyone who needs them. This goal, I regret to say, is still inaccessible for now, but announcements in the EU that a minimum 5% tax rate on these products will be abolished by the end of 2022. We therefore remain in Croatia to wait again for these legal changes to be imposed on us by the EU, or we can be one of the leading countries of this positive change that would eliminate sexism in the tax system. We're just curious about what the government is going to choose. On behalf of the Social Democrats, I call on the government for progressive and social action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66491	Now, on behalf of the promoter, an honorary representative of Anka Dark Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66492	Thank you very much, Vice President. And a respected secretary of state. Actually, I wanted to get back to you behind your exposure, but that wasn't possible, so what I was going to say then is I'm going to say now. In this assembly, we rarely hear anyone speaking honestly, what I have to say is that part of your exposure where you said you were uncomfortable and that you are deeply hoping that your wife and your daughters aren't watching this. I thank you for that, because that is the essence of this whole addition to the law. So this addition to the law speaks of menstrual poverty. The addition of the law says that the government recognises it and that the government wants to do what the government can do to abolish VAT. We're not going to stop at this, I'm going to jump your entire mandate or this whole assembly until you do, but let's get away with it right now, and here's the deal. We're reducing the VAT, so it wasn't seen on the products. Don't be lazy, so when I go into a story, I never go into a part of it, but I go into the end, don't be lazy, and I've had conversations with certain trade chains with managers, or they were managers, and I said that we're doing it, and they're willing to lower products, so they cut their margin, and in that way, they don't have to cut the margin from 25 to 5%, and the product price is slightly lower, but as a demonstration exercise even lowers the margin, and that prices on the market for hygienic cartridges and tampons are lower. They said yes. You know that there are some chains that today are absolutely supportive of things that are related to some more sensitive groups. So we're not talking about a lot of things here, we're talking about a simple standard that says, VAT on hygienic cartridges and tampons we're reducing from 25 to 5%. In this way, the government says that we are aware of the problems, that on our part we will do what we can to reduce, and then let those of us who talk about it talk about it to the shopping malls or to each other and make sure that we really see it on each package. When we talk about other measures, there are two laws at the bottom when you look at the bottom of the law, that hygienic cartridges and tampons for girls in upper secondary schools and high schools and colleges are free of charge. So put it in the process, and put it in the procedure, and vote it out, so give your mayors and mayors that you have to show them so they can use social programs and give it to their residents at their age that they need hygienic cartridges and tampons for free. In this way, your HDZ colleagues show that we know what we're talking about and that you're taking part in it, but the way you're going to participate is the only one you know, and that you're not going to be tortured with your own head, but you're going to vote exactly as your highlight tells you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66493	We have one replica of the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66494	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. Here's where you actually gave us the answer to those concerns that the secretary of state made, so you talked to manufacturers or distributors of hygiene products, and they confirmed that the price would indeed be lower if the VAT decreased. I wonder if you are with them as potential sponsors of these initiatives that go through certain cities, schools, etc. So would they be willing to sponsor a certain amount of these hygienic needs because we see that the government has no intention of accepting this valuable initiative of yours and everything that the rest of us have been saying and looking for, so do they have any kind of green light as sponsors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66495	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66496	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. I will gladly give you the contacts I had so that you continue to talk and what I talked about, I talked to you in this context because when I started this I called and it seems to me that it was the only thing that was decent I called Minister Marić and I said we were going with this initiative, that we wanted to do this, that it would be on the agenda, that we would make sure that we knew 1.1. that we would make sure that it came into debate so that it could be applied from 1.1.2022. It seems to me that in that case he should be decent and do it that way. At that time, Minister Maric also warned me of exactly what the secretary of state was saying, that we have experience of reducing VAT, which was not seen. And I really wanted to take care of it and I went to talk and I said, if you cut VAT from 25 to 5%, are you willing to say through certain actions that the VAT is reduced The hygienic cartridges have been reduced because that must be the point. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66497	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, Dreven Buddinski. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66498	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. He's been injured. 238, because how do you know who we're going to vote for and how we're going to vote in this motion? And the government does not reject this, but the government said it would fully look at the problem and introduce some more hygiene needs into the law. And the other thing I'm going to say is, here's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to Google it a little bit, and I can see that there are hygienic pads for men, so I think we should talk about it a little bit, too, even when I'm looking at prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66499	Well, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure that was a typical replica and I'm giving you a warning. You have two warnings now from your colleagues, so take care of it, please. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Sabina Vosovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Menstruation is a living fact of half the population and access to appropriate supplies is a need, not a luxury said by New Zealand's Women's Minister for Women when New Zealand ranks among several countries that are fighting against the so-called. Menstrual poverty. She understood why such a measure makes it easier for women to live, but on the other hand, it also makes it easier for them to have and organise their home budget. And that's why I said that I might be glad and that the outcome might be different if a woman, not a man, were sitting at the head of this ministry. She would probably realize that the fact that you're a woman and that some biological definitions have defined you in a way that you have certain needs that men don't have put you in line for those who have to pay more and make more income in this way indirectly and in our state budget. It's about 130 million kuna a year that our country takes from women just because they're women because they have to buy the hygiene supplies they need at the time of the month because without them they simply can't function, not in their private lives, not at work, not in sports activities. Even more devastating is the fact that this survey of the PaRiter Association was conducted for the first time in Croatia by one of the few such research done in Europe that a third of women in Croatia are forced to save on stakes because they are too expensive, that 36% of women buy cartridges or tampons of less quality, that 12% of women don't even have enough money to change cartridges regularly, 12% of women who can't buy anything at all, that 8.8% of women are forced because of lack of fictitious resources and sufficient amounts of stakes are forced to change cartridges only after six to eight hours a day. And not to mention that many girls don't go to school those days because they're uncomfortable or if they go to school, and they don't use old newspapers, toilet paper, old rags in the 21st century. There are such girls in Croatia. And now you tell me that it's not a defeating fact and that it's not something that humiliates basic human, not female human dignity, and we can change that. We can change that, with one little intervention in law. Let's just say, okay, we don't want Hungary to be our role model in this because only Hungary is more taxing its wives than Croatia is 27%. And I don't want Hungary to be our role model in this, too, because these are bad examples, as well as many other examples, when we're talking about human rights, that our role model is Hungary. And let's not wait for the EU to order Andrej Plenkovic to take care of 51% of the Croatian population, especially those who live on the edge of poverty and cannot afford not luxury but basic human rights. Why am I talking luxury? I know there is no longer a luxury tax in Croatia, but our tax system, hygiene supplies, cartridges, menstrual cups and tampons treats them as luxury because it taxes them at the highest rate of 25%. And now you explain to me why a girl or a woman is able to buy, I mean, it's a luxury because it's inaccessible, but why 5% of VAT is on a movie ticket, on a daily newspaper, why 13% of VAT is on concert tickets, why 13% of VAT is on hotel accommodation, so it's not something that you can't do without, and this is something that you can't do without, but you treat this, need and necessity through the tax system as a luxury, and some things that you can't treat as something that's easier available because when you cut VAT, you reduce the price, you make it easier. We will not solve the problem this way, and of course we have no guarantee or guarantee that those who sell will also reduce retail prices, but come on, let's follow the diapers, we have reduced the value added tax to 13% and socially responsible companies have stuck to it, they have not experienced the need for children without whom children can't. They didn't grow prices. At least not because of this measure of government. Well, come on, let's hope that's the way it's gonna be in this case. I believe, I believe, that I'm not advertising some companies now, because they've already shown social responsibility in business because even now even now, until the government wakes up and dreams of a deep dream like Trnorovica, they've already started, they already have their own actions, they're supplying schools, they're helping schools because they're self-organizing. We're on our way now, and our new mayor of the SDP in Varazdin left right away at the 7th month. with a free initiative, these precisely hygienic supplies for girls, in eighth grade primary schools, for the start of socially endangered status, so that's the first step. Next year goes on. So, but it's the same thing that the government might think about through exactly what you said. Don't just look at the Ministry of Finance, look at some other departments. I assume you meant the Ministry of Social Policy. It can be included, but this part must be done by you. Then let the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth do what the Scots did. Make sure that the hygienic supplies for women and girls in the period of menstruation are available free of charge in public institutions, such as, for example, soup kitchens, schools, health institutions, colleges, shelters for women victims of violence, can be done. So let's go to one whole story plus, of course, education, which should remove the stigma from that period being something that you can't talk about, that you're embarrassed to get out of work and say what the real reason is, that these are pains, that they're difficulties, but you're making something up. So we're not asking you right now to buy women pain pills, we're not asking you to secure through the Labour Act the possibility that one or two days when it's really hard for her to work out of pain, not have to take a sick day or, I don't know, an unpaid leave, we're not asking for that, we're asking for just one small thing, and that's to make your contribution to making their life easier, to make these hygiene supplies, which I repeat, necessity, without which we can't even make the immediate need available to them. And you won't. You will, you will. When the EU tells you that you have to prove to be the real soldiers and European face of our Andrej Plenkovic, then it will start taking care of women, but not because it cares about menstrual poverty and taking care of women in Croatia, but because it shows the EU that it has feelings for it. Now that's gonna be sad. And unfortunately, until that moment and that day will come, so it would be wise to wake up before the time and do something good, let it be our initiative, but take it and we will support it and we will praise that initiative, as we have praised the late reaction to the amendments to the Penal Code, when women of 6, 7 months for your egotrip should have waited for sexual harassment to be prosecuted by official duty because, well, the guilty people were this, they suggested before you. If you will not accept this, I suggest, colleagues of Anka Mrak, that we, if the problem is that you are proposing the law, and support you from other opposition parties, I suggest that we, together with some associations, launch an online petition so that we start the women and maybe this government, when the opposition doesn't say so, when they ask for women, will have to do what Olaf Scholz had to do as Minister of Finance when more than 100,000 signatures were collected and Mr Scholz then, as Minister of Finance, had to do in Germany, or he also took that step to change, reduced the value added tax to the hygiene supplies for women who needed them at the time of the month. So think again. I know you're gonna say no, but here, we won't mind if you come up with that proposal by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66501	On behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club, the honourable representative, Katarina Nemet, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66502	Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues. From this point in today's parliamentary debate, I will only confirm my support for the initiative that was then formally translated into this proposal to supplement the Value Added Tax Act that we are discussing today. Just as I have done so many times in various occasions, even in February of this year, when I once again pointed to this problem by my colleague Mrak-Taritaš and Glasovac when the signatures were collected to refer the proposed VAT Act to the emergency procedure. But besides me, this proposal for a VAT law without any reservation will be supported by our IDS counseling club. On arguments to support the completion of the VAT Act, which reduces the tax rate on women's hygiene supplies, cartridges and tampons from 25% to 5%, much has already been said. Many statistics, publicly available data and facts at the level of Croatia and the EU as a whole contribute to this reduction. I do not want to repeat myself and recite again the figures and percentages that we have all heard several times, and which, for example, testify to how many women and basic hygiene needs you cannot afford, or how much per month, per year, or for the average life of a woman spends money and pays a high tax on those, for her, inexorable living needs, because, to be very direct and plastic, menstruation is simply a life-long biological fact more than half of the world's population and in no case can in the context of tax policy be treated as luxury, can be taxed more than, for example, movie tickets, concerts or newspapers and magazines. A woman simply cannot and must not be deprived and further taxed, just because she is a woman and is to some specific needs that nature has imposed on her and cannot choose. And while I seem to have no idea that someone well-intentioned can be against this initiative, I still think of an episode that I hate to remember, but that kind of illustrates the state of consciousness in a certain part of our society as much as we keep quiet about it, so I'm going to convince her here briefly. Realising that these arguments that I'm talking about, which they're talking about, that's what other colleagues and colleagues are just going to talk about, don't come across absolute support, don't all think of it that way, of course. Not everyone is in solidarity with women and their elemental needs. Actors of this story aren't so important, it's the point. In a discussion of certain colleagues and colleagues, acquaintances, this subject of tax cuts and possible free female hygiene needs, what did one of the men in society comment on in terms of, so what do you women want? Then we men will also ask you to cut or cut our razor tax and shave. And it's something we didn't choose, nature gave us, and we have to deal with it, no matter how often it gets on our nerves and bothers us. Known? It looks like a widespread counterargument. Unfortunately, I'm seeing already those who will identify with that quasi-lying remark, but I'm going to say what I said back then. Why not? You can fight it if you think it's worth the effort, but the comparison absolutely doesn't stand, and we all know that the way things are, unfortunately, manifested by menstruation, that I'm not exactly in the sphere of naturalism, something quite different from the mustache and the beard, which, in the end, our dear men are rarely very hard at work and they actually serve them as decorations and pride. So let's not mix up the spears and the spaghetti, as we would say in Istria. Let's at least be so correct, if we're not gonna be solid by now. I will repeat, therefore, that I absolutely support the proposed VAT reduction to the 5% proposed, but I am of the opinion that it should not stand there, that this should only be the first initial step towards further solidarity of society with these inevitable female needs. Step towards allowing these elemental needs to be completely free. There are already such positive examples, why don't we follow them, and thus show that we're a society of solidarity, a society that knows when it's time for so-called. positive discrimination. I think it would be particularly opportunistic in this way to meet young women, sometimes still girls, who study, have no sources of income, and that's their extra financial burden. Let's start with them, for example, with machines for free cartridges and tampons in schools and colleges, why the initiatives have already been highlighted. Let us place such machines in employment, social institutions and elsewhere where it can be assumed that it will benefit women of weaker property status. I hope that one day we'll experience it in our beautiful, leading to that, let's be realistic, we're looking for the impossible, hoping that it'll become impossible once and for all. But until then, let's get back to reality, to what we're specifically discussing today. As I said, the IDS Representatives' Club will support a proposal to reduce VAT on women's hygiene needs, and I am free to appeal to all other colleagues and colleagues independently of party membership, whether they are women or men. Let's first of all, be people, solid, well-intentioned and empathy. You'll see how that might feel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66503	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Commissioner Nikola Baradic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66504	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for this Law proposes reducing the value added tax rate for women hygienic pads and tampons to 5%. The proposal states that women's hygiene needs fall within the basic needs of life, which is why it is considered justified to tax them with 5%. But when we use the concept of female hygiene, it is not fully defined in the first study on menstrual poverty conducted by the Association for Human Rights and Civil Participation. In this study, the term can also refer to tissues, soaps, gels, creams, oils for private care and others. This means that if the reduced rate were to be prescribed for menstrual supplies, the range would be limited to hygienic products used for use during period and would include products for single and multiple uses, so it would be important to determine the coverage of reduced rates which makes this proposal visible. In the past 5 years, the government has spent 5 rounds of tax reform to relieve both citizens and the economy, which is the effect of more than 10 billion kuna. This means that the income of citizens is systematically and fully released, creating preconditions for increasing the purchasing power of citizens, which ultimately affects their living standards. To achieve these objectives, the VAT rate has been reduced from 25% to 13% on basic food products, so fresh meat, fish, eggs, fruit and vegetables, as well as on children's diapers and children's seats, and on the supply of electricity and waste. In addition to raising personal deductions to 4000 kuna, the income tax was reduced from 24% to 20%, or 36%, to 30%, which felt about 900 thousand citizens. The profit tax rate has also been reduced for entrepreneurs who generate revenue of up to 7.5 million kuna per 10%, as regards 93% of entrepreneurs in Croatia. About 150 thousand young people this summer received about 700 million kuna tax returns, which also affected the quality of life for young girls and women. In addition, 5% and VAT rates on all medicines have been reduced, whether they are issued on prescription or not, which is important in terms of women's health. On the topic of medicines, I would also refer to the research that I mentioned at the outset, so the question to participants is how much they spend on medications to relieve menstrual pains. In the study, 27% of the participants can be classified in the category that spends up to 30 kuna on medicines and 36% on medicines per month spends 30 kuna and more. These figures are not completely clear to me since I use these medicines myself, and I know that if you are a user of supplementary health insurance, that 30 Brufen 60 mg tablets will pay 3 kuna, and if you are not a user of supplementary insurance, you will pay 17 kuna 30 tablets. Therefore, we can say that the reduction in VAT rates on medicinal products cannot possibly be 30 kuna per month, as it is written in the study. All that I have stated is that the government is taking care of all citizens, especially women whose equality is an important priority of the government's programme. Tax discharges are more of a rule than an exception in the past 5 years, which cannot be said for previous periods and previous governments. The government ensures the stability of public finances, supports the competitiveness of the economy and combats poverty and social exclusion. As soon as conditions are created, it is going towards further tax discharges which seem systematic and in line with economic opportunities. I'll remind you that we live in times when we're faced with the effects of pandemics and earthquakes. For job conservation and liquidity measures alone, the state singled out around 17 billion kunas with contributions. If we know that the damages from earthquakes and pandemics amount to more than 160 billion kunas, such as around one annual budget, we can say that we cannot look at selective measures in tax policy because it has a direct impact on the revenue side of the budget, or on its stability. Finally, as a woman, I can understand the intention of tax changes related to female hygienic cartridges and tampons that are a cost to us women, but I believe that this proposal for a law is as lacking and that a comprehensive analysis of all initiatives for reducing VAT rates is needed in accordance with the Government's 2024 programme to further relieve citizens. Under these demanding circumstances, tax policy issues and the reduction of VAT rates need to be addressed responsibly. It is also necessary to ensure that price reductions do occur, if the state is going towards reducing the VAT rate because this is the only way to achieve the desired effect. If prices don't decrease, the citizens won't be relieved. I would mention at the end of the initiative mentioned by the legislator at the beginning, one manufacturer of hygienic supplies and the Croatian Red Cross, which is called One for the other and lasts until 30 October of this year. This initiative allows one hygienic input to be automatically donated for each of the purchases of one of the hygienic cartridges. I'm pleased to see you donated 200 thousand stakes to needy girls and women so far. So it's an initiative something that each of us can contribute to, as well as a representative. This means that today we can do something for those who cannot afford hygiene products, but at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66505	Now again, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak for her respected representative, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66506	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So we are absolutely for all possible initiatives. We are absolutely for buying initiatives, and I mentioned that, in the introduction, where buying helps young people, or women who need it. We are absolutely for initiatives that, in schools, in colleges, in certain municipalities and cities where women have the opportunity to get hygienic cartridges free of charge. HDZ's got a lot of mayors, a lot of mayors. There's a chief here, I suppose, and the mayor, I haven't been following you so closely. Well, get on with it! So do it! So show me how you'd actually take care of women. So all the measures are welcome measures and no, and in fact, the first ones there from that bench I'm going to praise and say, as I commended and said the two schools that already started it. But this is one of the measures, measure, reduction of VAT to hygienic cartridges and tampons. This government shows its not empathy towards women, but where Croatia is. Your proposal is missing. So what's the problem? Give me the amendment, I'll accept it as a proposal, I have no problem accepting the amendment in the section where you've concluded that the proposal is missing. There's no problem, but let's not be hypocritical. I'd rather the government, or the Resort Ministry of Finance, said that we don't accept the point, but we're kind of fine-washed in gloves, so we're taking it a little bit, so we're not. I wish you'd told me on behalf of HDZ we wouldn't accept that proposal, period. Why? Because it's an opposition proposal. Don't explain it inexplicably. It's about menstrual poverty. This is about the menstrual poverty that has hit Croatia, it has happened to everyone. Other governments, other countries, show how this should be resolved. This proposal speaks of a measure that can be addressed in Croatia as a point. All this stuff we're talking about is welcome. The more we get involved, we make it, we can leave together there's no problem together telling my people that's good that way we help women. But let's not explain anything to the inexplicable. It would be much more correct if it had come and said we at our HDZ Club concluded that we would not accept the proposal together with our coalition partners. When the time comes, when we are told from the European Union that we must make that proposal and we will say so. I said I didn't have any wishes and I don't have any, I've achieved all my ambitions in life more or less. I even became a grandmother for being my long-time ambition. It wasn't up to me to make her real. I don't need to be carved somewhere that's the suggestion. But I need it because of all the young women and girls and all the women who can't afford it, who are using paper today, using old rags to show that we're ready to cut VATs from 25 to 5%, and then we all the women we're here have to do a campaign to really see it at the price of hygienic cartridges. Unfortunately, it's not going to work. We've got two things. First thing, give me an amendment. I'll take it, so let the proposal pass. Second, force the government to come by the end of this year and to go with 1. 1st entry into force of this amendment and the addition of the law, and we will be satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66507	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will now speak the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66508	Thank you. Here's the only man on behalf of the clubs on this subject. So, I'm also a signator of this initiative so I support it personally, but as a club, we also support this initiative. We understand, of course, the secretary of state who says it can go in the direction of reducing VAT and other hygiene needs, but that is the government's task. We haven't seen except this announcement here that the government is doing anything about it. And I can agree with my colleagues here who used to say that it's totally inappropriate that VAT is on the paper, for example. 5%, and that the hygiene needs are higher than the diapers that also have 5%, or that the food, milk and what we all need for this VAT is higher, and there is actually one non-consistency of that tax policy. And I like this initiative for one more reason. So it shows what I'm saying all the time in my statements, so that there is biodetermination and that women mean there are certain costs that we men don't have that in certain days, I don't know who was talking about it, and I should also think about how these women come out to meet about working legislation, and not that we are constantly pushing through legislation our birth identity, gender ideology, and that we as men and you as women and as regards certain biological differences, we are not different ways of working. We did. It's not a social construct. This is due to the meaning of biological definition, determination and conditionality, and that is why I support this initiative. My colleague, Mr. Tarritash, if you fail to push this through, I hope the government will do so, so I'm glad we're all on the side of this biological condition and determination and we're asking therefore to consider it. Here, thank you. So much for me. I hope Maria Selak Rasudić, a colleague of mine, is pleased with my presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66509	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and the Voice. She will speak to a respected representative, Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66510	Here's my thanks to the chairman. I've brought the products we're talking about here, but here's to not advertise the manufacturer, so today we're talking about hygienic cartridges, tampons, hygienic menstrual cups and similar products. Why did I come here to show them? Well, because there's a lot of girls today who when they go to the store and buy these cartridges and come out, we say in Split with a shrimp, so in a paper bag they bring them out because they're ashamed of it. They're ashamed to get out of the classroom class and take out a hygienic cartridge and go to the bathroom if it's in the bathroom, they're ashamed of the store, they're ashamed of even some girls and their parents, from their father's house to make it happen to her so they hide and don't talk about it. We have heard here today a few arguments about this excellent proposal by colleague Mrak Taritaš, several counter arguments, and one is very similar to that argument when we had that law Penal Code when the opposition here proposed one intervention Penal Code to move the three-month deadline in which violence has to be reported, so they said an excellent proposal but we'll do it much better so when we're up to it, we'll implement it. Well, a similar argument is used here. So this is actually an excellent proposal, but it's not complete. Here's just thinking about the covers, thinking about the tampons, and we didn't think about the gels, this, I don't know what else everything else. So again, I told the story of Matan and his Nusha and Zingerica, whose name is Zingerica. So it was very important for Matanu that "Zingerica" was his, that Nust did not bring it to her when she was married, but that he had broken hers and bought it to Singer. Whose "Zingerica" is it? So here and here whose law is this? Let's not let it be a colleague of Dark Taritash, let's not let it be from the opposition, but from some of the ruling. Other arguments are said there are other initiatives. We can also buy from social funds, those funds, the cities can buy and share for free, so this, what do we do with VAT. You got it. He can do anything. There is a company in Split called "Yes, Anything Can." So let's cut the VAT, but let's cut those initiatives. So no one defends, this is not written anywhere by a colleague of the Dark Taritash. She didn't write anywhere if you cut VATs here we're not going to support other initiatives. Here, let's try both. And the third argument the esteemed secretary put out here says, "If we cut VATs, it won't cut prices." So what are we reducing VATs anyway? He's gone. So, what, are we the only women left? And brilliant. Great. Bravo. Except for the chairman. I'm sorry. I'm always sorry. Excuse me. [[Intruder Reiner: I see you've already started with gender equality, you don't even count me as a man anymore.]] Yeah, with birth ideologies. Now, if you'll excuse me. In fact, we women and everyone who feels that way are we going to say that? So it won't cut prices if we cut VATs. So here I wonder why we're shrinking at all. Why isn't 25% of it without any special rates? Why isn't 25% for everyone? Why are we shrinking at all? Because who knows won't cut it will not cause a price reduction. Today, more than 800 million women and girls aged 15 to 49 are now menstruating, so menstruation. We talk here all the time about menstruation. Millions of them don't have access to the bathroom at all. They don't have sexual education. They don't have a chance to go to school. From the hygiene products they have here we heard cloths, toilet paper, paper, I don't know what all the girls do. So they have to do it again... often they don't know what menstruation is, let alone that it's a normal and natural phenomenon. [[You don't understand.]] There is one in Croatia. These are data from some studies that show that 70% of the girls in India didn't know what happened when they first got their period. It is now in the 21st century and would not believe in Croatia. And then when you mention sexual education in schools they say that's ideology, that's this, what, and actually girls need to learn what menstruation is. You have, you know what I'm asking Lastan, so there are questions girls of 10 years old—"Oh, wow, look at me wrong boy can I get pregnant?"" So we need sexual education in schools. Insufficient information is becoming increasingly a result of women and girls being stigmatized, discriminated on, and easily committed and violent when uneducated. They are even deprived of basics such as food, water, or a roof over their heads. So taboos, cultural norms, lack of education on menstruation can contribute to increasing numbers of girls leaving school. It often leads to early marriage, early pregnancy, and a cycle of poverty passed down from generation to generation. So it's very important that we talk about menstruation. Here's what I said to those taboos that exist, girls who don't know what's happening to them over when they buy these hygiene supplies to be ashamed of, they come out of a paper bag store and some of the girls and girls don't even know what it is. So we have to fight this period of menstruation and end menstrual poverty, which is not just a problem for economically undeveloped countries. At least one of your loved ones must have felt it. According to a survey on menstrual poverty conducted by the Association for Human Rights and Civil Participation at the end of 2020, menstrual poverty is also present in Croatia. She was also talking about these numbers of colleagues before. So 1/3 women in Croatia are forced to save on cartridges because they cannot afford them because they are too expensive. Some of them buy less quality products. Part of them here we heard we had to use I don't know tampons for more than 8 hours which is dangerous for their health all because I can't afford them. Today this is treated in Croatia as a luxury, as a movie ticket, as a hotel accommodation, as a daily newspaper. We recently had a study on sexual education in schools, and even 78% of those studied would make school sexual education compulsory. The Ministry of Science and Education reminds us that there is an inter-species topic of health in which you learn about topics such as sexual health, sexual relations, responsible sexual behavior, sexually transmitted diseases, etc. But we don't, today we don't have any clear indicators of the outcomes of such learning when it's not a particular subject but an interlocutive subject. Intrinsically, this means a little learning about everything in each of the subjects. In biology, in chemistry, I don't know in class class, etc. So there's no special subject. At one of the meetings of the Committee on Science and Education, we asked the Ministry for a study of research that would give us exactly that quality information of this type of education through an inter-species topic. Education that advocates a positive approach to sexuality respects human rights, gender equality, contributes to a tolerance and open social climate and mutual understanding and respect. It is more effective in encouraging responsible sexual behavior and delaying sexual intercourse. As shown by evaluation studies of programmes carried out in countries that have introduced comprehensive sexual education, it also contributes to reducing the number of unplanned pregnancies, preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases, and is crucial in preventing violence in relationships and sexual violence at all. They pointed out here for presenting the results of this study from the CESI. So here we call on the government, we invite you here all together to support this proposal to cut the tax on menstrual supplies, to encourage promotion here I will also say multiple menstrual needs as one of the solutions, as soon as possible to introduce sexual and health education into schools. And so here's what we haven't heard so far is some valid argument why the government wouldn't accept this when they say it's a good idea. Well, let Zingerica be on the side of the opposition this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66511	Thank you. We are now moving on to an individual debate, so the first one will be spoken by respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66512	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague, no more secretary of state, no more colleagues. Only now is the vice president I've already welcomed. As we have already heard here in this debate, it is estimated that every woman in the Republic of Croatia during her life only because the woman, for no other reason, is merely because her birth as a woman is predetermined to have a menstrual cycle of several tens of years in the interval using supplies: cartridges, tampons and menstrual cups, paying about 7 and a half to 8 thousand kuna taxes for added value only. This tax in Croatia is all well known at 25%. And if he really did shrink according to this bill, it wouldn't be about the big money savings. It would not even be a big saving for women, but it would be a big step, a big step that would show that Croatia is a progressive society, that the Croatian society in which sex laws are not in force, that the Croatian society in which we are finally going towards full gender equality, because what we are talking about today is equalising women and men. What we're talking about today is a sexist tax that is conditional on women only for reasons that they are born conditioned as women. And that's what the question of dignity is. Behind that law are another series of problems in the Croatian society that we talked about, which I will try to say. But if we had the whole context, I'd say some more things. Many European countries have introduced a reduction in tax rates on women's hygiene supplies. Even in 2019, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on gender equality and taxation policies in the European Union calling on Member States among other things to exempt women from VAT payments. This is expected to happen by the end of 2022, and it is then expected that we will discuss it again in this term. But that time on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the proposal of your colleagues and colleagues on this right. Because this is what our Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will do because he will receive a European Union directive. Now it's another case. Then these arguments that we make today will be your arguments. I can't wait for that debate. I can't wait for that moment, because then we'll show that we were right today. It'll be quick in a year. By adopting such an amendment to the law, the tax system imbalances would be reduced, given that the needs used exclusively by women are concerned. If we're talking men's cartridges, it's incontinence pads, and these cartridges are for both women and men. That's not what we're talking about here. Here we are talking about hygienic supplies and hygienic cartridges that are exclusively related to the monthly period, for a cycle that is in the fertilized age of women, in the fertilized age between 15 and 50, at which age we expect women in the Republic of Croatia to give birth to a new population. These are demographic measures among other things. So let's encourage women to actually improve their standards with these 2, 3 kunas per pack of hygienic cartridges, tampons or some more money per menstrual cup monthly, to be more satisfied, to feel more equal, to maybe give birth to children tomorrow because they are healthy women, because during their period they had quality hygiene needs, because they had quality hygiene conditions to give birth to healthy children, to give birth to them as much as possible for this satisfied society as possible would be demographic measures, not to say that such changes of the law would cause a number of other needs to change other categories. I repeat, they're not secondary, we're not other categories of society. We're women. We make 51% of the population in the Republic of Croatia and we have the right to be equal. Please help not to be a sexist example of women's tax in the Republic of Croatia, we can do this. If we do not succeed today, then in a year we will be on the proposal of Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66513	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66514	Thank you President, thank you fellow Members for an extremely energetic but positively sharp and very informative presentation. You're absolutely right. When we talk about the effects of this tax, he is indeed sexist, but here I'm going to take that one small dose, not to say the protection of Andrej Plenkovic, but to understand his condition. I do not think that we have targeted Croatia to have sexist law, but the bigger problem here is that women in this society are not the goal, they are not recognized, they are not necessary, they are not important, they are not recognised the potential of their role and contribution in society. And the main reason lies in what they said. If they accept these changes, it will cause a whole series of others. It actually seems to me that this isn't a sexist law of sexism, but here the problem is that this right-hand side, the HDZ side, is simply afraid of the roles of the presence and the power of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66515	The answer of the honourable representative Posavec The guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66516	Dear colleagues of Dalia, I will fully agree with you. We have a problem here that these fellow Members of our Parliament, the women of the parliamentary majority, have received a difficult task, have been tasked with having to tear down this very high-quality reasonable proposal today. I know that this isn't easy for you, but I'm sorry there's not a single colleague to help you with that. You're on your own. I don't know if you'll be alone at other times when men will think of themselves. Are you going to be alone then? Namely, the importance of menstrual health of colleague Oreshkovic has been ignored throughout history due to androcentricism within health knowledge and systems around the world. The concept of androcentricism takes a male body as a norm and an example for all people who, in a health context, lead to the invisibility of women, women's body and women's health in health science, politics and practice, which is because most of the laws are made by men.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66517	Dear representative Puljak. I'm sorry, I'm in breach of the Rules of Procedure. Who's the one who's done the damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66518	Dear fellow Criminal, here's a violation of the law, Posavec the Sinner. Infringement of Article 238 Because don't insult us, we didn't stay alone, but as far as I can tell you're alone on this other side of yours. So we're here to listen to your exposure, your replicas and stay here and hear what you have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66519	Dear colleagues, Drven-Budinski, I warned you last time. This is your third warning now, so in accordance with Article 240(2), I give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. This was a typical replica. You could have used it as a replica, abused the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. The reply to the replica of the esteemed, pardoned representative of Pulaj. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66520	I'm withdrawing the Honorable Vice President's breach of the Rules of Procedure because you noticed it was a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66522	Thank you. My colleagues, you said this is, this law is part of a demographic measure. Maybe they wouldn't all agree, maybe it's demographic that women give birth as much as possible, and then they don't have periods, so they don't need these products. Maybe it's a better demographic measure. And then here's why maybe this side doesn't want to support the law. But what I wanted to ask you is how you look at it, this is when we mentioned here in the Parliament and the New Zealand Prime Minister. She said, therefore in New Zealand, one of 12 people is missing class because of menstrual poverty. This must be happening in Croatia as well. So, as you look at it when young and young girls, girls miss class because they simply can't afford these products, stay at home, and here they get along as well as they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66523	Honorable representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66524	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. You're absolutely right. This is about the stigmatization of young women's girls, that they are difficult to socialize in a situation where they are poor and because of the menstrual, because of the monthly period and the menstrual cycle they must be left out of class. It may not be clear to some that the fact that New Zealand is very far away there are cases here in Croatia. It may not be clear to us from this Assembly Hall what conditions people live in the field and in Croatia. So we here today have to fight to preserve women's dignity, to preserve the dignity of these young girls, and not to reach any stigma. Whether a woman in her repeated fertility age will give birth to one, one, five, or 18 children is her personal question and her personal right. But if women in the menstrual cycle are going to have all the hygienic conditions to be healthy, then those children will be healthy, and then there's a better chance of having them more and more. Otherwise, because of various infections, we can expect a bad picture because of unsanitary conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66525	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66526	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Well, here's after this presentation from colleague Ivana Posavec I think we could easily conclude this debate and that would be that, but here we go. The Association for Human First and Civil Participation Pariter from Rijeka conducted an online survey on the topic of menstrual poverty at the end of 2020, which is also the first research of this type in Croatia and also one of the few studies on menstrual poverty in Europe. A third of women are forced to save on cartridges because they are too expensive. Some of them buy less quality menstrual supplies because of high prices, while more than 10% of Croatian citizens cannot buy enough stakes to change them regularly. An equal percentage of them can't afford cartridges at all. Unfortunately, these products do not have a preferential VAT rate. It is still 25 which makes them even more financially inaccessible. Every woman in Croatia pays about 8 thousand kuna tax over life just because she is a woman and uses hygienic cartridges or tampons. So let's look at European countries that have introduced a lower tax rate on women's supplies. Even in 2019, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on gender equality and taxation policies in Europe that urged Member States to exempt women's hygiene from VAT payments. And what's going on with us? In Croatia, girls leave school because they are girls. I don't think there's a more obvious example of the inequality of men and women's positions than the fact that women pay each month the price for the hygiene supplies we need. And the proposal to eliminate menstrual poverty to begin by reducing the rate to 5% is in your authority, Government. I know that many colleagues and colleagues, especially politicians and politicians, do not understand the prioritization of such measures, but to be clear, it is not a matter of our personal care that we can afford. No little girl's body must be an obstacle to accessing education if we're going back to bass really women single out money just because they're women. I'd like to hear one rational argument against what I've said, because frankly, none of them come to mind. This change is simple, and corrects one truly objective injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66527	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66528	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleagues, good evening, everyone. We are talking about the proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, which is the proposing representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. At the same time, we also have the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which suggests that the Croatian Parliament should not be subject to the law in question. At first glance as a woman and as a mother of a female child, she would immediately agree with this proposal, but indeed at first sight. In order for this topic to be better understood, it is necessary to say some things from both economic and fiscal aspects, because this is a tax that has been in use in the Republic of Croatia since 1998 when it started as a single tax of 19% to start introducing a reduction for some categories later. First it was a zero tax, then 5%, 10.13, and the basic rate today is 25%. In public, proposals can often be made on the need to introduce new or reduce existing reduced VAT rates. They are often offered by different stakeholders to benefit from the introduction of such lower rates. Sometimes it's for economic reasons, and sometimes it's for social reasons like today's proposal. Such proposals are reasonable because each activity wants to protect its interests, but unfortunately they are often based on flat-rate assessments without any deeper analysis, and most of the benefits of some measures are highlighted, but are not talked about the effects of individual tax reductions. There is no question of how much reduced rates contribute to the breach of the tax base and, at the same time, the loss of tax revenue in the state budget. The main problem in the correlation between the reduction of VAT rates and the availability of menstrual hygiene supplies that we are talking about today is that the application of reduced rates cannot be limited to the most vulnerable groups, since products in this case are also purchased by women with higher income who are not targeted by the population for the relevant VAT reduction. So it is questionable that its effectiveness is also in the case, even in the event that traders in question respect the reduction and use it to reduce the menstrual hygiene needs, but we know very well that this is not the case. And even if that VAT comes down because most of the products are really from imports it will happen to you that instead of the lavender cartridges in a month we have a rose smell, and the rose is more expensive to grow, so these cartridges will be more expensive, and the lavender will no longer be bought. So social transfers to lower income groups would be a much more effective and efficient measure to address menstrual poverty than it is to lower VAT rates. The reduction of VAT is for applicants who want to show care for a particular population the simplest measure. However, it is effective at the level of cosmetic and populist measures especially in this case, because even if traders reduce the price of the product it will not happen because that person who did not have 30 kuna per month will have 25 kuna for hygienic supplies. But I think opening the topic of menstrual poverty makes sense, and it's necessary, because there's a category of our fellow citizens who don't have enough money to buy menstrual hygiene supplies. We have already mentioned several times the results of a research conducted by a Human Rights Association, and it is precisely from these recommendations that it is visible, that when I looked at these recommendations from research, the first thing I was worried about was gynecological protection. It is alarming that 24% of subjects do not have a selected gynecologist via HZZO. Menstrual analgesics are available for free but these girls, girls, women should go to gynecologists, and this can be a kind of motivation to go to the exams, consults, and about contraception and all other things. It means that the budget provides funds for the purchase of menstrual supplies for people who are in poor assets. In this way, persons who should be registered at either the Centre for Social Care or the Doctor may receive a prescription, a guidebook, a coupon for free or more favourable purchase of hygiene supplies, so that in schools on request menstrual supplies can also be taken over in classrooms, educators, psychologists. So I support all efforts to provide women with menstrual and hygienic supplies. I really don't want women living in my country who don't have a cover, but lowering VAT won't make it possible for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66529	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66530	I thank the president. So I listened very carefully to your exposure. Yes, menstrual poverty is certainly one of the subjects, one of the reasons why this law is proposed, but it's not the only one. And I see you've missed the point again. So these are the hygiene products that I need, all the women in this assembly, at least at some stage of life. So these are the products I need. Mr. Reiner, who sits behind you, none of this needs a lavender or a lavender smell. And it's really incomprehensible to me how you could go with your exposure to support him as a woman, as a mother girl. It's all reasonable. It's all justifiable. But here's this little symbolic reduction in VAT rates would undermine the stability of the tax system of these few hygienic needs. And that's what you're saying as a member of a political party that boasts about its six rounds of tax reform. Well, it's like you're boasting about six circles of hell.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66531	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66532	Dear fellow Dalić, meaning today's law in question refers to menstrual poverty, means women who cannot afford hygienic, menstrual needs and I believe that since you are a representative in the Croatian Parliament you have quite solid incomes. You can afford the hygienic cartridges you want. So it's not the point that all women, so neither did Mrs. Taritash's intention today was to allow all women to be costed their hygiene needs, but women to reduce the property power they don't have for hygienic pads. ... But some do, but let me finish. [[You can't hear it.]] [[Please, let's not get off the bench. Let's not get off the bench, please!]] But that means nothing to women with better purchasing power and better property. So would you rather lower everyone than those who do not have a free ask?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66533	The Republic has a respected representative of Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66534	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Anita, I can name it this way, we know each other well. The point is that menstrual poverty is addressed. We said in the statements that those two, three, kunas wouldn't make an economic difference. They make the fundamental principle of the symbolic difference between eradicating injustice, gender inequality. This is a sexist law that reflects the existence of gender inequality in the Croatian tax system. And not just in Croatian. The point is, it bothers me. I believe it bothers you, too, you're a member of the Committee on Gender Equality. That it's not right for me as a woman to pay a tax that my colleague Reiner doesn't pay. And it offends us all regardless of the level of our incomes. We're fighting gender inequality. The fact that this will have an additional effect on menstrual poverty as one of the measures proposed in the fight against this problem is an additional benefit, but it is not the basis of this proposal. The basis is the eradication of inequality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66535	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66536	I really think that by reducing the VAT rate to menstrual needs from 25 to 5%, which is essentially when you calculate even a negligible reduction. And as I said, whoever doesn't have 20, 30 kuna won't even have 25 percent kuna. But you really need to be aware that those who run this country have to think about both VAT and budgeting and everything. It's the easiest thing to be in the opposition to look for something and not think it's going to be financed, whether it's going to be possible. There's no question of equality here. Therefore, the HDZ is not for women to be in an unequal position. But in any case, I don't think today's proposal really makes any sense, and it won't really do anything about menstrual poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66537	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66538	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, co-worker Pocrnic Radosevic, it's really not easy to listen to the opposition colleagues stand up for women, and we're against women being helped. I give for the right of colleagues who are first in the Croatian Parliament and who are trying to help women.Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, co-worker Pocrnic Radosevic, it's really not easy to listen to the opposition colleagues stand up for women, and we're against women being helped. I give for the right of colleagues who are first in the Croatian Parliament and who are trying to help women. However, I was there in 2011, 2012. When some colleagues who had just been there advocated as colleagues Ivana Posavec Krivec so strongly talked about women and their rights and help, they raised their hand to raise VAT on the same and cartridges from 22.23% to 25%. I wonder if they were women then, and then they remembered that it would be good to help these same women. Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, co-worker Pocrnic Radosevic, it's really not easy to listen to the opposition colleagues stand up for women, and we're against women being helped. I give for the right of colleagues who are first in the Croatian Parliament and who are trying to help women. However, I was there in 2011, 2012. When some colleagues who had just been there advocated as colleagues Ivana Posavec Krivec so strongly talked about women and their rights and help, they raised their hand to raise VAT on the same and cartridges from 22.23% to 25%. I wonder if they were women then, and then they remembered that it would be good to help these same women. Oh, come on. However, I was there in 2011, 2012. When some colleagues who had just been there advocated as colleagues Ivana Posavec Krivec so strongly talked about women and their rights and help, they raised their hand to raise VAT on the same and cartridges from 22.23% to 25%. I wonder if they were women then, and then they remembered that it would be good to help these same women.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66539	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66540	Thank you. Thank you, colleague. Here's how the colleagues listened a little better, and they could hear that I said it would also be for budgeting to provide funds for the purchase of menstrual supplies for people who are in poor assets. They could get that on a prescription, a manual, a coupon, or whatever. But the same thing when you mention it, it's not a period, it's been menstruating women ever since HDZ's been in power. I don't know why you didn't ask for it when you were a minister or when you were in the government. Well, I don't know why you didn't do this to other governments. So the period didn't come when Andrej Plenkovic came to power? Well, I mean, really don't let us even have to laugh.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66541	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66542	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleague Pocrnic Radošević. We all agree here that menstrual products should not be a luxury to anyone, women should not be victims of menstrual poverty, and I am sure that the government will continue to tax discharge because systematically and so far, it has shown in the previous five rounds how much it has charged citizens, households, but also the economy. But what concerns me in this survey is data that say that 24% of subjects do not have a selected gynecologist, hot and running water at work does not have 18% of participants, 23.8% of participants said they do not have the possibility to take a break because of the provision and maintenance of menstrual hygiene when they need it. A lot of that data on female health may be bigger and more significant than this here, but I agree that women should not be victims of menstrual poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66543	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66544	Thank you, colleague, for pointing to this. It's those things you listed that I'm worried about, and I think they're problems that need to be dealt with systematically. Because let's just think of women who work on kiosks, who work on markets, who work in places where they don't have a toilet available. Even in different places. So could a woman if she applied for a hearing and she had to go do something this guy says to the chairman, so I went to that guy change the bet, and you took me out of the debate and I don't have the right to come back all day. Is that so? So in everything not just in the professions of some in factories or somewhere official. Well, even in the Croatian Parliament, women are unequal about it. So let's deal with it, and some social transfers will solve the lack of hygiene supplies. It would be a struggle for women's rights and I believe that everyone here could agree on it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66545	Thank you. Now, again on behalf of the promoter, she will speak for her respected representative, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66546	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We don't turn the saw upside down and make fun of women because they're women. One, this is not about a bill that is in any way politically or ideologically colored. I'm asking if we don't understand each other or if we don't want to understand each other. The reduction in VAT from 25 to 5% is because it's a VAT that we pay just because we're women. Point. The social category belongs somewhere else. Social debate is somewhere else. The easiest joke, the easiest to make fun of, the easiest thing to say is here we have this great leader of ours. HDZ colleagues, you will vote for this tax in a year. Well, you'll vote for such an amendment of the law in a year, and you'll vote the same, and now you're saying it's incomplete, it's like this or it's like that. When the EU adopts a directive because now, during the Portuguese presidency, it is an urgency to bring in the same people you now joke about, you say this or it will turn the saw upside down and say it is necessary, that this is an indicator of how the government takes care of women. You'll turn the saw upside down and vote. So we have three options. We have options. Give me an amendment. I'll take it. Option b) Let the Government come with this proposal, let them come with this proposal as soon as possible in an emergency procedure, we will accept it as an opposition and the same thing we are saying on behalf of either the promoter or through discussion we will accept. And the third option, so accept this. So when your Prime Minister Plenkovic tells you that, then you should vote for it and talk about that being a very good proposal. And now you're making fun of me and making fun of me. You don't make fun of me and make fun of me. I'm used to all sorts of things, and I've got all kinds of beatings in my life, so this isn't gonna get me anywhere special. You make fun of 51% of this country's population, you make fun of women who pay taxes just because they're women and try to understand that. So, all the social programmes you're proposing, all the EU funds you're going to make sure that the hygienic cartridges are free of charge. Even more so, we'll support it. But please don't make fun of women just because they're women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66547	Now she will speak to a respected representative, Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66548	I thank the chairman. I've written down a few replicas on the presentations so far. I forgot to tell my colleague Grumo before he ran away from the pay phone, and he's still afraid of two words, which is gender ideology. That's what he's saying with his whole body shaking when he says so, and I just wanted to tell him that we're born different, and we don't have to be gender-inequity. Here's what happens if we're seen by a colleague from the club. Again here we hear arguments on the first here you said colleagues, at first glance you would agree both as a woman and as a mother, as a girl but always someone but. But later on, when there's a full tax reform, a new round of tax reforms. So far, we have had four, five but still the business sector thinks we are the most taxed country in the EU. So, not in these tax cycles of discharge to become an attractive country and for the business sector, but here are for people who are increasingly fleeing from Croatia. But let us not now spread this debate the story of the quality and conditions of life in Croatia and the conditions of business. Here's some more data. You say 24% has no gynecologist selected and it's terrible and it's really scary. Here I am going back to the topic of having sexual education, health education in schools, civic education in schools that will teach our girls how important it is to have a selected gynecologist. The argument of why you didn't suggest it earlier when you were in power. Well, I think your arguments are funny now. Let's not be small children. I've got three kids, so when they come to me with those arguments, Mom why this, why aren't you before, why aren't you after? Well, here they are not before, here they will kneel on corn and cry out that sin, but here they are now proposing, so I think if the reason is not to accept it because you didn't suggest it when you were in power. Well, I think that's one of the stupidest arguments we hear very often here in the assembly. So this is one proposal that here's how we said deletes that inequality. 50% of the population of the state is moving imbalances, women pay taxes on this, men don't use hygienic pads, tampons, menstrual cups, and I don't know what not. And this is a chance to correct that injustice in the tax system, to give girls who today can't afford these products to afford them, not to miss school because they don't have these things. We support absolutely all initiatives. I'm going to point out one more time. I can't stress it. I don't know how many times. All other initiatives that would remove these barriers remove everything that bothers girls, girls, women from being ashamed to say they have period, not to run away, do not hide, do not come out of the store with paper bags that hide these products, but here are to be equal residents, equal citizens of Croatia. And so here's two MPs here, we're the other women to tell them here that we're thinking about them and we're fighting for better living conditions. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66549	Again, on behalf of the gender inequality "but" you eliminated. But good. He will now speak to the esteemed representative Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66550	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I wanted to replicate my colleague Puljak because there are still three men here. Okay, here we go, so he's got us. But let's say from those who, I apologize, gentlemen, but the fact is, I think we're talking about MPs so. I've been listening to a careful part of the debate. A colleague of the vice president of the Parliament mentioned Scotland. What the Scots did was, therefore, the first measures relating to women's cartridges happened in New York long ago in 2016. So it started with the U.S. That then went a little bit to Europe, and otherwise I'm a tampon task, so the tax reduction on women's hygiene needs has been adopted by now, but the data has been old since 2019. 13 US states, so this is not only an EU issue, but also a general world. That goes for both Canada and some other countries that deal with it. So, to this day half the EU countries have reduced the VAT rate to the products that we are discussing today, so if that's the case, then I wonder what kind of state we are if the VAT reduction won't reflect on the final number, so at the ultimate retail price. But I'll say one thing, and that's the data from the World Economic Forum. You know the margin on paper towels? Rough gross, or gross margin on paper towels, those we can buy at the kiosk, etc. Which one do you think it is? 30%. Do you know what the gross margin on women's supplies is, or female hygienic or cartridges or tampons? The gross trade margin is 70%. So now traders have room to cut the price. I think if we're already doing some analysis, then we're doing these analyses, let's be responsible, so we see what the gross trade margin in Croatia is, as we consider fuel, if we're considering fuel, then we can consider apologizing for women's inputs. But I wonder how half of the EU's countries have that bill and really cost a lot of money. In Croatia alone, you can't do that. When the VAT is reduced whatever power it is, only in Croatia is the strangest price not coming down. That's a little weird to apologize for. But what I'm going to say is now there's going to be more than half because from 1.1 next year, Italy is reducing VAT to cartridges. Who's the prime minister of Italy? Mario Draghi. What was Mario Draghi before that? But make sure we understand each other. Italy has another state in it, it's called the Vatican. What Mario Draghi was before What? [[/Intruder Reiner: There are two countries. And San Marino.]] Yeah, okay. I agree. [[Intruder Reiner: There is also San Marino.]] So Mario Draghi was also governor of the European Central Bank. Don't you think he knows as the Italian prime minister how to control a trade margin? So we are the only ones in the whole world who are unable to control the trade margin if the VAT is reduced. But I had the most fun reading the report of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance. They took note of what the government said, let them elaborate a little. So we have a Parliament that doesn't think with its own head, but has received knowledge of what the government has said, the government has refused, so now we have to. Okay. I know that there is a parliamentary majority and so on in the working bodies. Then described somewhere in the report will be written to do so, but what classic mantra this is to me the first term in the Parliament, but here's the year but I have to wait for the whole package. Well, that's how it was with violence against women, so we only added one sentence. But I'm okay with that, too. I'm okay with that, too. But you know what I don't like? And I'm taking off your hat too, pal, it's an honor to you, but it's really good for you because you should have really don't get me wrong. I don't see any colleagues from HDZ, but they pushed you to defend their refusal. And that's why it's an honor to take off your hat. I'm taking my hat off for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66551	Thank you very much. She will now speak to a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66552	Thank you to the president, my fellow MPs and MPs. Here I was just about to compliment my colleague Eric Fabianic on the presentation that was excellent, excellently prepared. I even thought to myself, here's what I forgive you for yesterday that you've been looking back at those marginal fees from the whole Revival Act, and then finally you say that you're congratulating to your HDZ colleagues what they're doing here in a way that's irreversible because their skirts are hidden behind their male colleagues. Here's the little part where I disagree with you. That's exactly what I resent. I believe that there are situations in which you must show that you really understand what in the provisions of the Constitution means by a provision that says that MPs do not have a binding mandate and that not all HDZ forces would fall on cartridges and tampons because you would show a little less party discipline. The more at one point, the more certain it is that the European Union will also come from an initiative to introduce such provisions into our tax system. But if I didn't repeat all the excellent things that my colleagues had already said before me, I would refer to the provisions of the Constitution and give this whole debate a slightly different dimension. So, I remember my law professors, and my first principles of attorneys who taught me the first secrets of the trade, talking about how we choose words, how we streamline certain provisions to expose us in some way, to show what the internal value code is. So not only do we know but what we believe and what we really appreciate. So a small choice of words can reveal much more than it seems by dry reading a certain provision. So I will now read the provision of Article 63. The constitution says: “The state protects motherhood, children and youth, and creates social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a dignified life. There is also a provision in Article 62 which states that the family is under the special protection of the State. And when I think of the words used here, so the woman is protected within her motherhood, protected as a child, protected within the family. But nowhere in the Constitution, women are not protected as women. And this shows the true traditional patriarchal nature of our society, which even when it comes to such a banal life-long world topic, there is, in some ways, a kind of discourse of political contempt and contempt. Because I don't see why, let's say, one subject like this, I think it would be interesting from the point of view of many young girls who, looking at this debate, might raise awareness of the situation they're in. Perhaps you would ask yourself questions about the value of their own female dignity if such a debate were not in devastating evenings. The more often on Fridays we have a half-empty assembly in which we confirm some of those agreements that are like on tape that no one is looking at, and no one reads about such an important topic that affects not only the intimacy in terms of hygiene that you are still many, many in the Republic can't afford to talk about what their perspectives and chances of life might be. And that ignoring rejection of the ruling who are actually sending a message is what we're going to bring into our tax system, but when our party boss tells us to. He throws all the values that a modern, prosperous society advocates or should be held accountable for. I am giving my personal support to this law and here I hope that there will be more and more initiatives that reveal not only how the HDZ mental set works, but also how stable our tax reform is. So one would say that depending on the tourist season, one would say that the measures through these five, six cycles have led to some result. And then it can destabilize them by a few percent reduction in VAT rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66553	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66554	Dear colleagues, I think that even though the HDZ colleagues are here, it's not for them to suggest because they're doing their job here. There's only one thing about male colleagues who aren't worthy of being here obviously because they think they can leave it to others. As for yesterday's debate to take advantage of the opportunity. Yesterday it was 20, 30 kuna fees. Today it's about the price that's two, three kunas. I mean, I see it as a principle. So someone's a thief. Whether he stole one kuna or stole a million, the thing is in principle and today we're defending de facto the same attitudes that I defended yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66555	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66556	You've hardly disarmed me, if it's principle and if you've defended things because it's the principle you believe in, then I simply accept it, and here's what I expect all the MPs to stick to their principles and whether it's 22 or 2 billion kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66557	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66558	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleagues. Here's to the end today we heard the opinion of most colleagues who support this Bill on Value Added Tax of those who do not support it. In an individual debate, I explained why this proposal is unacceptable from a tax point of view and that by reducing the VAT rate from 25 to 5%, it would not achieve the social effect of the applicant in the call proposal. According to the experience of EU member states, reduced VAT rates have not shown full effectiveness in achieving the goals of redistributing income and reducing prices. The results of the survey show that even the prices of food products used by the entire population and a wide consumer base do not fully reflect the reduction of VAT, but that part of the reduction goes to an increase in the sales margins of producers and traders. The time coverage also affects the results of the research, and the effects of the reform, i.e. the reduction of tax rates per product group, are more modest as it is analysed longer after its completion. So, over time, effects would be getting smaller and smaller. Taxation could be said to have solved the problem of menstrual poverty, and it is clear that it would not because the VAT has been reduced. Unfortunately, it's not like that in practice, and it's never gonna be like that. Citizens and politicians complain that the VAT rate is too high, but by increasing the number of exceptions it must and growth to ensure revenues to the state budget. Unfortunately, the reduction in the tax rate does not affect the standard of citizens, but often goes to traders. That should be understood by all those who demand a reduction in tax rates in this point, and I'm sure we don't want that. I therefore believe that there are better and more appropriate ways to address the problem of menstrual poverty, and they concern social transfers where the Ministry of Health should be involved, but also the Ministry of Social Care. Research on menstrual poverty that most MPs have called for today, and we called for it because it's the only research we have on the subject. And what makes me sad is that it's the only research on menstrual poverty. The problems include providing conditions for maintaining menstrual hygiene at the workplace or schools. The menstrual shame and misunderstanding of the environment, the lack of knowledge of the menstrual needs especially of the multiple ones. And that's exactly why we should all deal with initiating sexual education together, to teach these girls and girls something about menstruation and overall sexual education. I already mentioned that 24% of subjects did not have gynecologists. That's not good. This is not good because this service is free and available throughout the Republic of Croatia. These are topics that we need to discuss and come up with ways to solve them, and the reduction of VAT when we discuss this topic more systematically becomes even more groundless. The experience of some countries has shown ineffectiveness in this way of solving the problem precisely by reducing the VAT rate, they have tried it. So here's the mention of Scotland, but exactly the VAT reduction is the first step towards sharing or subsidized purchase. So why should we go to something that has already proved to be not working well? So let's think of something, so we can take this one step forward right now, and let's make it possible for these women especially those groups that don't have enough money for supplies, to provide them with either free or subsidized hygiene supplies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66559	Thank you. The next final on behalf of the Centre and Vosa club will be a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66560	Thank you. Well, here's what it looks like we actually didn't understand each other in this debate at all. We have talked about menstrual poverty, but this is not an emphasis and it is not the only purpose of proposing a lower VAT rate. So here we're talking about what differentiation is specific, what's the main difference? Well, the difference is that some of us in the population are women, some of us aren't. These women have specific needs which are basic hygiene needs and these products pay certain tax amounts, while others do not have as a financial burden. That's the point. And if you're talking about the objective of these amendments and the law won't achieve its purpose by calling for some tax aspects, it's simply that such an argument doesn't hold water any longer because it's you who boast about the successes of all our tax reforms. We talked about the experiences of a number of states. There are countries like Rwanda and Kenya that could withstand the burden of reducing this budget, God, the burden of reducing to the budget if there are measures like this, but here's our budget couldn't do it. This speaks about the state of Croatia compared to those countries now. And among the wrong arguments and inexcusable excuses, it was also heard that many young people receive significant amounts in the form of tax returns, so that is, out of these amounts, they may also be able to finance the needs of certain hygiene products. And again you don't know where that particular difference is. The difference between women and those who are not both different and specific needs. Once again, here is the call of the ruling to consider accepting this truly as you yourself have admitted, reasonable, and very simple proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66561	The following will be finalized on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives by respected representative Eric Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66562	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice President, it has been my honor to speak finally in the name of the club, as my colleague Grumoja had previously said on behalf of the club to be equal to the two of us, because here is a question above all equality. So, I think everyone who's been behind this payphone is basically us that idea is acceptable to everyone. To all of us, it's only acceptable that we have on the other hand to tell one technical technological procedural excuse that it should fit into, in, in certain, certain fiscal packages, regulations etc., but we're all for it, but we're all for it. That's one thing. Secondly, I know a lot of people in the debate have gotten on the social line, but trust me at all, and I mean our club doesn't at all, and here is the question of equality to finally get rid of and that is to reduce a tax that could really have a connotation of sexist tax, sexist tax. I'm a man, I don't have to buy it, I don't have to buy it. My colleagues in the assembly, not just my colleagues in the assembly, have to buy it. And now they're going to say that we're men buying bags, so we're not just buying men's bags, not as we've heard from our colleague before that there are male cartridges, no, but less importantly, I think they've missed it. But then I appeal to one thing, which is to ease that difference between men and women through that, through that initiative. And let's look into the future. It's everyone who sat before us, and the one who sat there today can still have a little.../incomprehensible... let's give this one a chance to be better than we were. Let's give ourselves that chance, no, because I listened to the debate as I got 3 warnings before so I couldn't speak in this part of the anti-corruption, it was very fun for me to listen to this story from communists, not communists, etc., I'll say one thing from something, take Slavko Degorcija if you remember who he was, so look at Google or who he wrote or was the co-author of the book Tito in Moslavina then we'll see who was a communist. And not just him. I mean, I've been in politics for 31 years, so I love it when left-handed people attach things like this, especially when I've known events since the early '90s, I can tell you that they're really fun, but I'm not going to tell them about this pay phone. Furthermore, and also, so we can really make this step even if it doesn't have to be this proposal, but if we were to expect a proposal from the rulings soon, we'd be supporting it as before, and we'd say whatever it was about to change the criminal, and now you'd be making a little joke, now you'd be making a little joke in the end. So, St. Mary Queen of the Croats that she's alive, what side do you think she'd be on, which side of the assembly would support if she were alive, both of them, but I'm saying then maybe they'd just ask her to give in on one side. So, she'd probably just admit the cartridges because, because of the sinless conception, she did. So let's not just put the tampons on the pads, here's because de facto this kind of defense, this kind of defense by the ruling is to excuse who, as if you didn't know about the Queen of the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66563	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the re-respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66564	Thank you very much. I'll, like I started, die out of the village rather than the customs. So, the opposition proposal is late evening hours and I won't use my 20 minutes to really try to sum up everything we've had a chance to hear. At one point, the secretary of state left us seems to have seen his wife and daughters having a discussion, so he had to go home and explain what the government was thinking. My dear colleagues, this is about a very simple proposal. On the addition of the law that says, VAT on hygienic cartridges and tampons is coming down from 25 to 5%. Why? That's the only reason we have that tax is because we're women, wow, we're women. Point. At this point, the government is not prepared to do so for the simple reason that no one from the EU has told Mr Plenkovic that they can. But when someone from the EU tells Mr Plenkovic that you should do it, you will come with this proposal and get support from the opposition side. So if we understand each other in the first thing, which is that we're reducing, that the proposal is to cut the tax from 25 to 5% just because we have the tax because we're women, then we understand each other. So, it is evident, and I thank again all those who participated in the debate, thank you for everything that was in the debate, and I have invited my colleagues from HDZ to make an amendment that I will accept. You didn't even get to know each other about it. I even told you Bianco, give me the amendment I'll accept. But now I'm inviting my colleagues from HZD to do something else. So, not so long ago, I'm referring to the fact that history is a teacher of life. Not long ago in this assembly in that former meeting she had, there was a very interesting topic. The topic was the Istanbul Convention. And then there was a vote on the Istanbul Convention. And that's when your president, HDZ, Mr. Plenkovic, at your club allowed a part of the MP and representative to vote against the Istanbul Convention. That means part of the HDZ club voted in favour, and part of the club did not accept the Istanbul Convention and there was talk of a great democracy in HDZ. Well, colleagues from HDZ, so show your strength, show that you think and you don't have to have party discipline when it's important for you, so fight it out, so you vote for this bill supplementing this law and tell us what's important. It's important to us because we have the law just because we're women, we want to vote for it. Come on, these colleagues at HDZ have fought to vote differently, you can fight it because if you don't fight it then you actually agree to all that, so some women only pay taxes because they are women until Mr. Plenkovic says it can be different. Now is the time, so you have an option. Have an amendment. We'll accept. The second option, you fight within the club that women vote for this bill and say that we want to vote for it because this is, this is one law that pays taxes, which only pay women because they are women. We'll get a chance when the conditions are met and when the vote comes, we'll see what it'll be like, but once again, I'll invite you to your club and sit down and see. If you think the proposal is missing, supplement it, and otherwise if you think it really is wrong for women to pay taxes just because they are women, fight within the club that you have the opportunity to vote for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66565	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Pulak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66566	Well, here's my esteemed colleague, I wanted to use this last replica to actually thank my colleagues from HDZ for participating in the debate and for proving that here's nothing to get away from that famous one of mine whenever I have these laws on my wallpaper from that singer famous, everything's great just that it's not against the opposition. So here's when one day they come out of this framework that they keep repeating, I think that here's going to be much better for the citizens of Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66567	Honorable representative, the answer of a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66568	Thank you very much, I know it's already too late, so it's a little hard for all of us. I am really using this opportunity once again to thank all those who participated in this debate. I think this debate is extremely important. This bill is not colored in any way, either politically or ideologically. This bill is very clear, it says in favour of Croatia wanting to be a decent country that clearly says where it wants to go and how it is, while not having to follow the great leader, so when the great leader says now is the time to vote, you can vote and when not. Equally so true history is a life teacher, if we had already had the case that inside the HDZ Club someone could vote differently and voted differently, I think that there were one 15 MPs who voted differently, maybe this is the moment that within the club of a colleague that I can say that all the activities you will have, which will also enable the help of women who are really in a difficult situation You'll get support from us. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66569	Dear Representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66570	So, as far as I'm aware of, dear colleagues, you would accept that by HDZ, you would get an interpretation of this law as clear for the Istanbul Convention to be that, to be 100% pure, because then that will certainly be acceptable to us, if it's acceptable to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66571	Thanks, buddy, yeah...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66572	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66573	I'm a little fast, thank you. So, just like that. So imagine when, when you had the chance to hear from any of the promoters when he stopped for the pay phone and said give the amendment, suggest an amendment, I'll accept. Give us some more explanation, we'll take it. Write three sentences, we'll take it. Why? Because this is more important than that if we have three more sentences or not. So, we've had cases like this, let's take this opportunity. Let's see if this country goes forward because there's a chance we've had to listen to different things. We used to listen and laugh where they actually made fun of women, I'm sorry, I don't like to make fun of anyone, let alone with women. But we have a chance to actually do something right. But my colleague Fabianic and I know the following, and that is when this proposal comes from the rulings all the things we have heard today that are not good. will be displayed as excellent. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-21-0.u66574	Here, with that we conclude the debate on this point, we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We'll continue work tomorrow at 9:30. Have a nice rest of the night. Session interrupted in 20.55 hours.
