ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u42813	Following the final debate, the presentation of the position on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Ante Prkacin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u42814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the election campaign ending, tomorrow's election silence, so I'm gonna look back and this is what's going on. Namely, I'm going to start with something unusual. I'm going to bring out a dispute from the Homeland Movement that I belong to. The struggle almost turns into a conflict because we've made a nice deal that we're going to do brave, heroicly fiercely but fairly, without a low blow, without succumbing to anyone. I did my part of the work myself, they say I'm a solid individual, so then I didn't look too much at the rest of the party, nor at the president of Škor who's fighting the most intense battle, but it started quietly and then a louder story about the dirty campaign, so I'd find out that it was addressed to our address, that we're running a dirty campaign from all the state media that I've long said were in the hands that don't like or those who hate the Croatian state. So we met and started very hard and if my colleagues hadn't explained to me what this was about, who knows how this debate would end. And I said nicely, we in the Homeland Movement are in a great situation when I was explaining why we don't need the thought of a dirty campaign, but we don't have to rape or rape or drain water, 400 councilmen, a great success, a party founded a year ago, our president who's actually the biggest victim of a dirty campaign, when they show up here, is a constituencie so that I'm given him and that I'm not the one who's now, that I'm the one who's 30 years old and I'm giving them one of the five decorations that explain first, how to defend Miroslav Skor, how he's lost, killed, etc. The man who got into the presidential campaign, got 24% off the street like that. So we know how the presidential candidates go, with 0.2, with 0.0, etc. The man who introduced 16 MPs to the Croatian Parliament, so whoever did this, as I say, the man who entered, for the Zagreb elections, who entered the finals of Wimbledon. Well, it's an honor to them who say it and talk about it. And as far as dirt is concerned, people have even substantiated the paperwork, gentlemen dear, it's a huge amount of money, I don't dare to convey it, but in the media you have. It's over 100 million euros that one of them got from someone. Why, how? So if he and that money comes back tomorrow, then if he gets it back, he'll get it back from three zeroes. Well, I mean, that question should be answered, you can't say campaign is dirty but you should say it's not true that we got that money, too because a dirty campaign if the platform can be based on anti-fascism, did I challenge that antifascism into one seven thesis? Why didn't they disprove the only one? Did I say Wednesday when I say, "I'll wait for them Wednesday after a new speech, Thursday, Friday, whenever they want, let them deny any of what I said." Did I also teach them because they are ignorant because they do not know that there was antifascism in Croatia, did I teach them, did I mention Mark Oreshkovic whom Serbs, partisans sold, betrayed to Serbs, Chetniks to slaughter him in the 10th month. '41. Mr.... A true anti-fascist wanted to fight Fascism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mentioned to them Andri Hebrang, we all know how Andri Hebrang ended up. So that they're smart and they know, they could have been very fierce, they don't know anything, is that it, is this hate speech? Well, I'll make an argument when I say so. If they knew, they would work, they would drink your blood too, I would say they were two Croatian communists, Stevo Krajačić and Vladimir Bakaric, if they were better represented by Croatian interests in Belgrade than Andrej Plenkovic in Brussels. It would be a story, it would be a story if it were the knowers, if it were serious people. Not a serious team of phrases, paroles and nothing more and they change, so they are the continuation of Milan Bandic, Milan Bandic is not ours but theirs, from the same bed they originate. I'm waiting here, waiting and waiting. And they're gone, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u43006	Next is the presentation of the position of the Centre and GLAS Representative Club, the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u43007	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In about 12 hours, the pre-election campaign for this year's local elections ends and we enter the pre-election silence, and then on Sunday we choose who will be mayors, mayors and mayors, of course where the decision is not made but in the circle. Votes will be counted, complaints and complaints discussed, final official results will be announced and all elected ones will be able to work. The decision is also in 4 biggest Croatian cities, Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, and some of these results will be interesting and public, especially the one in Zagreb because a new era of governance is starting in Zagreb. And speaking of a new era, after the polls have been silenced and votes are counted, Croatia is waiting for another thing that has not been experienced for a long time, even 3.g. without any scheduled regular choices. And this is a good time to finally seriously consider the elections themselves, the way they are implemented, or the electoral laws. The election laws in Croatia are one of those topics that is regularly repeated, the arguments in these discussions are actually very similar and at first glance it might seem that there are only some minor differences, and that we all agree together. Yet, for years and decades nothing has essentially been done or changed, regardless of whether or not the government, or the opposition whoever at some point was not overly satisfied with the current electoral law, is at least so argued. One of the burning problems that are certainly election units in the parliamentary elections. They have been tailored in some time for the ruling party and its special needs and defiance of all laws of logic, common sense, but also the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to their route in the meantime, a huge problem has become their size, or disproportionate to the number of voters. More than 10 years ago, the Constitutional Court also sent a report to the Croatian Assembly on the observed occurrences of unconstitutional and illegality when they are the right of electoral units. Although this report is not a legally binding fact, the Constitutional Court referred it to the Croatian Parliament and that it concerns the exercise of one of the fundamental rights in democracy of what it all begins with, and that is the right to vote. As a result, the congregation was to pay serious attention to the account. Just to remind you, the Constitutional Court warned us 10 years ago that the number of voters per election unit was not in line with the law. The number of voters should be up to 5%, and we have 25% difference in reality. Simply put, Parliamentarians have been chosen against the law for a long time. It would be good for Mr Plenkovic and HDZ to finally think about this and, even though they are very fond of reading some decisions of the Constitutional Court at a poor time, it might be convenient to read the report on the unconstitutional and illegality of the election. Of course, there are other problems with the way we choose in Croatia. There's a lot of questions. Do we even need electoral silence, does it make more sense at a time of digital media and social networks where there are no time, no spatial constraints? Can we finally get through the E-Citizen system and start signing applications? Can we possibly vote that way? And, of course, the question of how do we ensure that the assembly is better suited to the will of the citizens? Do we stay with the proportional system or do we go to someone else? Often mentioned so-called. The German model as a model and it is really good because it gives individuals the opportunity to compete and get support, but it does not completely kill the role of political parties that are important for the stability of the democratic order. In any case, they've been in front of us for three years without any choice. It would be wise to use that time to restore, work and modernise our electoral legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u43078	Next is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the distinguished representative Željko Sačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u43079	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, so in this solemn day that we started with the wedding of heroes and in honor of our winner of the Croatian Army, the families of the dead and I will refer to the 30th anniversary of the formation of our Croatian army, the winner of the army, which, thanks to which we achieved after the 9th century, is an independent democratic free state of Croatia. As a participant of these times, I remember lively these dramatic moments just before the lineup at Kranjčević when I was the assistant commander of AT Lučko, along with General Markak commander of Mr. Butorc then when we discussed, we made decisions which we will send from our heroes to be at the stadium in Kranjčević just for the honour and pride of the Croatian people. We knew what message we were sending. Now, from that position, it was 28.5.In '91, behind this, we know the drama itself, the bloodshed, the massacres, the doubts, the doubts, the fears, the horrors, God's thanks, with the power of the Croatian people, our Catholic Church, allies outside Croatia, we managed to overcome a far more powerful enemy. We've come out as winners, warriors of war. It's a terrible pride, it's a terrible commitment for a generation who took part in such a war victory where we have married our victim to the permanent, eternal glory of the winners for the benefit of all Croatian and Croatian citizens. Today, the fact and today the injustices we are experiencing cannot we Croatian patriots, Croatian defenders enough to process enough that it is possible that someone has abused so many laws and constitutions, violated the elementary expectations of all of us who sacrificed ourselves for the Croatian state, whether he has stepped fat into crime, corruption, in many areas of immorality, in parts that meant, especially in the process of detudgement in 2001, the fierce opposition of each of us who created the Croatian state has brought back the wheel of history. And then we get a hint of hope two days ago in many aspects that we go forward, that this victory army that was destroyed in 2001, which they put under the process of detudgemanization the greatest, bravest heroes, means with a certain small, small portion of dirty water, they've thrown out a bunch of innocent children, brave Croatian children who gave their lives for Croatia, threw them out on the road, on the street overnight by those special ministers, let their names, last name, from Minister Radoša to Mrs. Antunovic and many, many other presidents who have left their disgusting trail along the way, from President Mesic to Josipovic further. And the day before yesterday, a ray of hope is won that, and we've had a terrible step on the Defence Committee, today the government is going to make one decision on the modernization of a terrible step forward on the decision to conclude a contract for the purchase of 12 war multi-purpose aircraft and that's an extraordinary thing. In addition to everything else we will invest in the Croatian Armed Forces, we will be an appropriate military force but without people we will not meet those needs, without the possibility of young people entering the system, we will not be able to achieve it in the way we war veterans imagine it. Therefore, we advocate to open the way for certain military service, certain methods, whether it will be a month, two months, three months, something to allow Croatian young people, generations, to go through the famous generations of our predecessors to benefit the Croatian people. The Croatian people must never be left without the Croatian army.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u43168	The latest statement of SDP's Club of Representatives' position, the distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u43169	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues, respected to the public. So for a year and a half Croatian citizens are responsible for the emerging situation, respect all the measures and decisions of the Civil Protection Staff that were sometimes totally absurd and each of us struggled as best he knew and did best, so that all of us would actually get through this crisis as painlessly as possible. And there was no kalo. Many have lost their jobs, many have closed their turns, schools, parents, and children living and working in different countries have been seen only through Skype, and even those living in different municipalities have not been able to attend the funeral of their neighbors. And then suddenly, two weeks ago, on May 16, the crown disappeared. All epidemiological measures with a purpose of as many votes as possible have been ignored and no one has taken responsibility for that, with it likely to be too soon at our borders. Why? Because on the day of the local elections, Croatian nationals from third countries can enter the country without any epidemiological restrictions and that such passengers are subject to the exception of a decision to temporarily prohibit and restrict cross-border cross-border crossings of the Republic of Croatia, more specifically that they may cross the border without owning a PCR test, without confirmation of vaccination or disease over the COVID-19 disease, noting that those persons in this case must return to the country of origin within a 12-hour period of time. With that decision, the headquarters discovered its true purpose, i.e. that it was extended by the hands of the ruling. On 16 May, I sent an open letter to the authorities and institutions but there was no response. I would therefore like to repeat once again from this political speaker today that I would like to ask the Civil Protection Staff to immediately amend the current decisions on temporary banning and limiting cross-border crossings and to grant the citizens of the Republic of Croatia once a week to cross the border with the allowed return within 12 hours and without the obligation to test i.e. with the same conditions as made possible on 16 May for the entry of nationals of the Republic of Croatia from third countries. Isn't it unfair that our citizens living in the Republic of Croatia especially those in the border area, and I know that because I come from a place that is on the border, this whole period of a year and a half face a problem of crossing the state border conditioned or insulating or crowning a test that is not a small cost, especially for those who visit and even on a daily basis, for example, parents of returnees in BiH who have decisions on mandatory testing or isolation at each crossing the border made it difficult and less likely to care for their loved ones. So the children of these families can't reach their old and powerless parents, grandparents who are mostly and remote places where there's neither a food store nor a doctor, and these people are unfortunately left to themselves or well-intentioned neighbors if they have them at all. Another problem is major property damage, burglary and mugging, among others, and by migrants who happen because of the inability to visit and maintain homes outside the Republic of Croatia. Note, health comes first, but we also need to be a society of equal opportunities and the rules must not be changed from opportunity to opportunity as to whom at a given time it suits. I believe that most Croatian citizens will agree with me and therefore either respect this proposal or explain to our citizens why this decision is possible only on the day of the election and in that case both the health department and the health ministry owe us all an answer. Where did the crown go on May 16th, and why do we know in advance that it would be gone on May 30th? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u43170	Here, thank you, we've exhausted the debate on this wheel with this. As announced this morning, we continue the session on Tuesday, June 1st at 9:30 A proposal to raise the issue of trust by Prof. Dr. William Berosch, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here, everybody, happy State Day. MEETING Interrupted at 12.44 p.m. The first is a respected representative of Rada Simičević, taking the stand of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u43265	I thank the vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers. Here, my intention is to present investment data in Zadar and Zadar County, but also to commend people who have worked and designed projects that have made the city of Zadar and Zadar County champions in withdrawing EU funds. We know very well how much it takes to overcome the obstacle to create a quality program that will get green light from those who give funds. I myself was part of a particular project when there was an energy reconstruction for four schools in Zadar, whose holder was Zadar County. Zadar has been the leader of the withdrawal of EU funds in Croatia since the beginning, we have been at the top for years, and we are the first Croatian city to set up an administrative department for EU funds because we have recognised in time the importance of quality project preparation and the possibility provided to us through EU projects. Due to all these possibilities, the city of Zadar was also named EU fund champion in 2019. We are facing a new EU Financial Perspective of 2021-2027, which offers even more development opportunities for our city and county, more than 24 billion euros are available in Croatia in the next programming period. Part concerns the National Recovery Programme, which would help Member States exit the Covid crisis, and there is a regular 10 billion-euro envelope. By carefully preparing the projects, strengthening the city's capacities and city institutions, we will take advantage of the opportunity ahead of us just as we did in the previous period. During this programming period, the city completed a total of 27 projects, currently carrying out 1.86 billion kuna through as many as 276 projects. The projects include all areas, I will only list some of the most important at the moment for Zadar and Zadar County. Improving water-communal infrastructure and agglomeration of Zadar, Petrcane, 315 million kuna, construction of the Centre for Waste Management Biljana Donja 266 million, student accommodation and nutrition in the new Student Campus of the University of Zadar 67 million. Another prominent youth center, whose work was near the end, costing 40 million kuna. Law and thanks to EU funds, investment in cultural heritage has been the largest ever in the city of Zadar and Zadar County. Here I am talking about the restoration of Providence and the Prince's palace, the arrangement of the church of St. Nicole and the walkers in Muraja, and soon the reconstruction of the Zadar Riviera, where the sunset is the most beautiful in the world. That's what Alfred Hitchcock said. That can be confirmed by all those who saw it. During this period, we conclude the arrangement of the historic core of the city and now, we have a full potential ahead of us for the development of strong cultural tourism. From, we are the only city in Dalmatia that has had a 7% growth, which we can again thank the inflow of EU funds that have served as an effective tool for overcoming this crisis amid cuts in budget revenues. From the EU funds 3,36 billion kuna has been agreed and this support for job conservation, active employment policy measures, the "Wish", investment in road infrastructure, investment in air, maritime and transport infrastructure, development of agriculture, construction of kindergartens, waste management, support for entrepreneurs and craftsmen, for social policy measures, for health, for education and science, for culture, tourism and sport. Through these investments, we want to achieve the following, safe, solid and healthy city and county, for the city and county, the family, thought of male and female, young and dignified lives of older and needy for Zadar as a strong administrative, economic and cultural centre, smart transport and a green city for the city and county of new technologies and digital transformations and the digital city of e-Zadar. For the end, I want to thank everyone who was involved in making these programs that resulted in a better opportunity for everyone. The city is made up of people and we are a city that grows and develops and the number of students in the provodi class is increased by 80 students from 2018 to 2020, from 908 students to 988. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u43362	Next is the presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u43363	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow citizens and citizens who follow us through the screen. In these five minutes, I would just continue the exposure of a few days of absurdity, so our National Recovery and Resistance plan, to which we spent all our money, and in fact it was a lost opportunity to invest in a private sector that needed us really and out of this economic crisis out. It remains a last step, which is the multi-annual financial budget I sincerely hope will include economists and financial experts coming out of the sphere of economic gurus of Mr Savić, Minister of Economy of the present and other economists who are exclusively connected to the government of the Republic of Croatia for the reason that a consensus is needed over everything that awaits us, and these grants were an extraordinary opportunity to focus and to invest funds in a private sector that would give returns. What's interesting is that I found one thing on 669 pages of the National Plan and Recovery, so the government of the Republic of Croatia with EU grants thinks it's doing "The Market of Justice". That's what it's called "The Square of Justice". I also called it Vladimir Seks Square for the reason this is, it is thought to invest some 700 million kuna, which is actually EUR 100 million, nothing more than this cable car built here on Sljemen. So one centered place where all the courts would be gathered, and that should lead to judicial reform. So justice reform will not bring us "Mr. Vladimir Seks Square" but justice reform will bring us the fact that our hearings do not last for 10 years, that our processes are not penalties either, that perhaps all these convicts may also need to pay them the benefits for the mental pain that the state has caused them since the processes last for over 10 years. Furthermore, the electronic toll collection system, so also in previous funds or strategies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, was the biggest these project performers were Croatian and Croatian highways and we did not lead to any economic growth. What's actually a pattern already seen now is that you call something economic development, and you actually get the funding of a public sector that doesn't carry any returns. As in previous strategies, the most investment was made in infrastructure, HZ infrastructure and highways, and we actually don't see much of it. Just for the perspective, for this 500 million-dollar money perhaps two, two bridges and 40 kindergartens in Zagreb and throughout Croatia could be made for example in companies of 20 million kuna, as we have already said, which would actually give returns, as the private sector does. Furthermore, there's something called the Skela Cross. So we are all aware of the fact that the scale in this area of the Republic of Croatia is too much needed for the co-existence of our citizens and that there is no skeleton 128 citizens of that small town could not cross the Drava River. On the other hand, however, the issue of funding is again raised, so is it really necessary for this money to go from, if the programme is called the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. So if we really invest in Skele 6 million kuna or EUR 1 million, will it really lead to economic recovery. So the question arises why are we not financing this from the budget or the budget of local self-government, and why are these EU grants that we could invest in funds or in the private sector to get returns to invest in such projects? What's the key and what's the fact is that we actually see from all these examples that we have a missed opportunity, that we could invest the grants in projects with refunds, and the only thing we see now as a solution constructively is that economists, financial experts, so no matter what miles we've come from, is that as many of these people get involved in the consensus as possible and that we make a decision as to how the rest of the funds will be invested because with this first wave as we've given up at 30.4.2021. We have well missed the opportunity to invest in Croatia and return it to the recovery of economic recovery. There he is, hello beautiful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u43492	Thanks to the cameramen. Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. Since it is the Day of Statehood on Sunday 30th of May, and today we mark the Day of the Croatian Army and the Day of the Croatian Land Army, and the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the National Guard Assembly, I ask you to pay tribute to all Croatian defenders who died in the Homeland War, the first Croatian President Dr. Francis Tudjman, and all those who gave their lives for our country. May their glory be eternal, and thank them. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, on Statehood Day we mark the establishment of the first historic democratically elected multiparty assembly on May 30, 1990. as representative body of citizens and holder of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia. We still remember with enthusiasm the day we took the first step towards achieving the centuries-old drive of the Croatian people to create a free, independent and democratic Croatia. On May 30th, the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman presented in this high house the most important state goals that stood before the new democratic government of Croatia. One of the first ruling decisions was just passed by representatives and representatives of the first summoning HS and, recognising the crucial historical moment, adopted by the Christmas Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This established a new political and legal order of the state. This confirmed the historic role of HS during many centuries of preservation of Croatian statehood and national identity. After that, a decision was taken to call a referendum on Croatia's state independence. Describing Croatia's future in then dramatic circumstances, the citizens almost plebiscitely expressed themselves on sovereign and independent Croatia. On the basis of the citizens' direct will in the HS referendum, the constitutional decision on sovereignty and independence and the Declaration on the declaration of sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia, and the decision on the termination of the state's legal ties with the former state. Croatia's statehood has been confirmed by all the member states of the European Community at the time, and then by other countries and international organisations, thus achieving a complete affirmation of the Croatian state within the international community. The military victories in the operations "Bleak" and "Storm", as well as the peaceful reintegration of Croatia's Podunov are surrounded by the most important period of modern Croatian history, but at the high price of human lives and victims of many of our defenders and civilians. Homeland war and its values are the foundation of today's Croatia. Therefore, by marking this solemn day with deep respect, I express my lasting gratitude to all Croatian defenders and soldiers, their families, and everyone who participated in the creation, defence and affirmation of Croatia. It is because of all of them today that we live in a modern, free and democratic Croatia, a member of the EU and NATO that is building Croatia for future generations every day on its rich heritage. Dear MPs and MPs, once we have defended our country with great sacrifices, we have secured international recognition, and we have achieved two of the biggest strategic goals and become members of the EU and NATO, we need to turn more strongly towards Croatia's future. As we were then united and gathered together to establish and build a Croatian state, today other challenges are ahead of us that call for unity. None of us could have predicted what happened in 2020, the whole world was affected by an unprecedented pandemic of coronary viruses, and we in Croatia were further affected by a devastating earthquake. Croatia faced the worst crisis since the Homeland War. It changed our priorities and forced us to reconsider the goals ahead of us. Protecting the lives and health of our people, and restoring the earthquake of the destroyed areas have become the most important tasks. But we are aware that Europe and the world are changing rapidly, and global influences are also visible in our society. The development of sophisticated technologies and artificial intelligence, the mobility of young people and demographics, security issues, environmental protection and ecosystems have become increasingly important topics. By taking care of them, we must not forget our traditional values and Christian roots that are woven into the Croatian people. Dear MPs and MPs, we also have some new national goals ahead of us. The next is the entry into Schengen which is important for security reasons, after which the entry into the Eurozone and OECD are intensive. As representatives, we participate in dialogue with European colleagues and institutions, and we can influence the creation of European policies, which was also the meaning of our long-term path to EU membership. Over the next decade, we want to achieve a vision of Croatia based on the self-sufficiency of our economy and the construction of a sustainable society, and to carry out a green and digital transformation of Croatia, we want to ensure that our people stay in Croatia and create conditions for families and young people to work, especially in rural areas. For this transformation, we will have almost EUR 30 billion at our disposal in the coming years. The basic directions of this transformation were drawn through the National Development Strategy that we recently discussed in HS. We want to focus on investing in people, innovation, preserving resources, improving the standards and living conditions of our citizens. At the same time, our economy and society want to make crisis-resistant, and to give an additional incentive to the even development of our regions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is therefore important to remind today that our task is to adopt modern laws and strategies that will ensure Croatia's future and better opportunities for our citizens. I would take advantage of this moment and invite all of us parliamentary representatives to better cooperation, mutual respect and respect, and solidarity. I invite you to focus all your discussions in this historic home on Croatia's future. And finally, I congratulate all members of the Croatian Army on their day, and I congratulate all of you and all Croatian citizens and citizens and Croatians and Croats around the world on Statehood Day with the final words of the first Croatian President Dr. Franje Tuđman of this historic 30th May 1990, "Let us live and advance democratic and sovereign Croatia." Thank you. I just want to tell you that before the meeting, we had married in Mirogoje and on the day of the Croatian Army and on the day of statehood, I thank all my colleagues and colleagues who were at Mirojo, there was a large delegation, all of them were the vice presidents of HS and representatives of the vast majority of parliamentary parties and party clubs. And before we start working just one more notice, next week we will be working Tuesday and Wednesday as Thursday is not a working day and we will begin a debate Tuesday on a proposal to launch a trust issue with William Berosh, the minister of health in the government of the Republic of Croatia, and on Wednesday at 12:00 a.m. there will be a vote. We will now begin our work as announced: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on the Illicit Trade of the Sea by which Article is applied. 17. UN conventions against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, second reading, P.Z. No. 141 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 141 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207th Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. That Article provides that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are to be adopted as a rule in one reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I would now ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is the respected secretary of state at the MUP Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49758	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. The production, transport and use of or use of intoxicating drugs is certainly one of the greatest halls of the modern world, we can generally say that the production, transport and use of drugs generally increase in the world, so despite all the efforts of the police, national countries and the international community, the result is still not satisfactory and much work still has to be done to eradicate or at least significantly reduce this evil. In that sense, there is also a point of the agenda ahead of you, so let me give you a brief look at it. The Republic of Croatia was on 8 October 1991. the notification of succession became a party to the United Nations Convention against the Illicit Traffic of Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988. The purpose of this Convention is to improve cooperation between States parties in the fight against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances. However, the Member States of the Council of Europe, which is also a party to the Convention itself, have agreed that Article will. 17. The Convention relating to illegal transport by sea shall be completed by means of a regional agreement, i.e. by an agreement of the countries of the Council of Europe which would implement and increase the effectiveness of the provisions of that Article. In fact, this article on sea handling is specific, which is a large part of the sea that makes up the international sea, an open sea that is not under the jurisdiction of any country and those parts of the ocean, and has to be specially regulated by the police. On 31 January 1995, therefore, an Agreement on the illegal trade in the sea through which the Article is applied and further elaborated. 17. The Convention, which is subsequently open to the signing of the Member States of the Council of Europe, which, as I said, is the party to this Convention itself. The provisions of the Agreement lay down, inter alia, specific measures that each State Party may take for reasons of reasonable doubt that a relevant criminal offence has been committed on board or that a vessel has been used for those purposes, therefore for the purposes of illicit drug trafficking. The Agreement was signed on 7 November 2007 on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, subject to ratification. It was signed by the Ambassador and representative of the Republic of Croatia to the Council of Europe, Mr Daniel Bucan, in Strasbourg. At this point, the agreement numbers 15 countries of parties, someone will say it may be small compared to the number of Council of Europe states that are about 50, but the agreement has signed all relevant states that have a maritime border and that have free access to the open sea. So also those countries that can carry it out properly signed the agreement and are its parties. In accordance with the provisions of the agreement when laying down a document on... The Republic of Croatia will announce four statements and one reserve to the agreement. Therefore, as flag states, the Republic of Croatia will assess and approve, individually, any action taken by the State which takes action in relation to the vessel in waters outside the territorial sea of any party, i.e. the State of the Party. Furthermore, as a state which takes action, the Republic of Croatia will make its measures subject to the condition that persons who are its nationals and are also convicted in the flag state of the vessel have the possibility to transfer to the Republic of Croatia in order to maintain the sentence imposed. In addition, the Republic of Croatia will designate the authorities responsible for sending and responding to requests as well as notices of the conduct of preferential jurisdiction and any other communications and notifications to be received on the basis of the agreement. That body is the Department of Police under the MUP. Similarly, the Republic of Croatia will declare that the information exchanged between the States of the parties may be used exclusively for the purpose of which they have been supplied. The Republic of Croatia will declare on the basis of Article 31 of this Agreement and a reserve which reserves the right to request, other communications and supporting documents sent to it under the basis of the agreement to be translated or forwarded to Croatian or English. Here, according to these notes, is also drawn up from a professional level in accordance with this final proposal for a law confirming the agreement that the Government is sending to the Croatian Parliament for confirmation or adoption. Finally, I note that the implementation of this law is within the scope of the State Administration's internal affairs body, defence and judicial affairs, and its application will not require additional costs, but activities related to its implementation will be carried out in the framework of regular activities and will be financed from regular operations. Here, honourable MPs and MPs, this is the shortest on the bill in front of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49759	I'd like to thank the Secretary of State. We're going to the replicas. I have a total of six. First up, fellow Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49760	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State today as we mark the 30th anniversary of the Croatian Army's formation and congratulate the members of the Ministry of Defence on their day, the debate on the final bill is an opportunity and to highlight the successes of Croatian police in international action to fight drug trafficking. As you said at the outset, the production is growing, the European continent is at this point for drug traffickers the number one place for drug distribution and despite data on drug consumption in our areas that are not at all good I would say that if we remember all these actions from Falkuša, from the situation in the port of Ploče a month ago we can still say that Croatia is a safe country in which no murder is involved in drug trafficking as is the case in neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49761	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49762	Dear Mr. MP, the Croatian police are making considerable efforts to combat drug abuse and, in this case, cooperate very closely with other countries' police. Therefore, this agreement will certainly significantly improve this cooperation in one segment. And you're right when you said that the Croatian police either tipped off or discovered several important smuggling chains and concrete cases, so it's been known lately that this case from September last year when an international criminal police action was successfully carried out 88 miles from the Canary island of La Palm where a ton of intoxicating drugs that is worth about EUR 40 million on the market was seized. Therefore, the co-operation is permanent and this seems to benefit Croatian citizens' safety as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49763	Second replica, Comrade Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49764	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the UN Convention against Illegal Drug Trade and Psychomotor Substances was drawn up in Vienna on December 20th, '88. A year. Agreement on the illegal trade in the sea through those same substances on the basis of Article 17. The UN Convention was drawn up in Strasbourg on 31 January '95. which the Republic of Croatia signed on 7 November 2007. Please, do you have information on the consent of the adoption of the Vienna Convention or the 17th UN article of third-world countries in our environment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49765	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49766	Dear Mr. Representative, we don't have any concrete information here right now, you can get it in writing on acceptance in third-world countries that are very often drug manufacturers and where the largest quantities of drugs come from on the European or North American market. There is certainly a need for cooperation not only among countries whose markets are subject to drugs, but also to countries where they are produced. I said that 15 countries of the Council of Europe, therefore European countries have accepted or ratified this agreement and it is in full application. These are mainly countries which therefore have access to the sea that can and can apply this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49767	Third replica of colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49768	Thank you, Chairman. I would ask the honourable representative of the motion to explain which segment of cooperation is being promoted by this law. In fact, you said we were working well together. I'm wondering how that makes the '95 deal. The year the Croatian Ambassador signed 14 years ago, so in 2007, we now transpose this law into our legal order. I'd like to know what kind of situation we're only discussing right now, what it's accomplishing, which is the relevance of the mechanism that was established in '95, and based on the '88 convention. and has not changed a lot since Croatia's entry into the EU. So, finally, I want you to explain what kind of a situation we are now passing this law and confirming this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49769	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49770	Dear MPs, that is exactly as I said the agreement was signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia in 2007. For the past few years, certain operational actions have taken place and cooperation has been sought from other countries and some of these actions have included Croatian citizens or Croatian vessels and the need for this work to be practically operationalised and easier co-operation. The agreement solves a number of issues, let me mention here, so around, the bodies that are responsible for costs, about a series of secrets, a series of information that in operational work is shown to be crucial that one state could meet another country's demand for persecution. Thank you very much, ship. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49771	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49772	I thank the president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, here, I support every law that is passed in order to prevent drug abuse or consumption, and this way I would like to commend the Croatian police for all that they do in order to make the Croatian state market less drug. My question is about the period from EU entry to today, whether more drugs or less are on the Croatian market and whether participation with other international factors is easier to discover the way of drugs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49773	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49774	Dear Mr. Representative, as I said and production and traffic and use, drug abuse in the world is growing, however, we can, at least a little say, boast that compared to last year, in which we have final data, in the Republic of Croatia abuse, that is to say, the number of drug abuses, i.e. the number of crimes, is lower by 8% compared to 2019. Last year 2645 crimes were committed, which makes up about 5% of the total number of crimes in the Republic of Croatia, but we are not fully satisfied with that. The Republic of Croatia and the Croatian police co-operate through Europol, Interpol and other bilateral agreements, but we felt that such an agreement was needed to ensure that a specific segment of open-air cooperation could take place successfully on the international sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49775	Now it's my dear fellow Sacic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49776	My dear secretary. It is certainly a commendable initiative and we as Croatian sovereigns will give support to this Law, but at the same time we also propose to the Presidency of the Parliament, and also to you at the Ministry of Interior and all relevant ministries, to prepare a thematic session on the problem of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia, it deserves this, it is an extremely socially dangerous criminal area. If we can discuss anti-corruption measures at the same level, then we must also discuss the measures that should be taken to prevent and repressive action or abuse because our Croatian police must certainly and our repressive system must have the full support of this society in the fight against this monster. There are huge damages to human health, and the largest and most important to the financial system of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49777	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49778	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Before, I believe that a report by the Chief Director of Police on the work of the police in the last year will soon be found in front of this House, but certainly this particular, kind of crime, deserves its place to be much more debated about it. We know that there are different opinions in society about drug harmfulness, but we warn everyone, especially young people, that they never give up to this monster because it leads to worse and worse crimes and often destroys family, community and society. Therefore, we must not underestimate it, and we will talk about it and inform the public as much as necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49779	And the last replica, Comrade Dretar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49780	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, two brief and quick questions. Does this Agreement provide for or open the possibility for the Croatian Army's engagements, in this case the Croatian Navy? This is the first question, therefore, other than the police, and secondly, at the very end of the Agreement mentions any arbitration, since there are many items of many different laws being activated here at sea, especially in international waters. How will we know and be able to regulate any arbitration? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49781	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49782	Mr. Representative. In the application of this Act, I have also said in the introduction, apart from the Ministry of Interior and Justice, there will also be the Ministry of Defence, which is exactly what they were looking for, justifiably, that the Croatian Navy, or the Coast Guard, may, during their patrols on the Croatian territorial sea, if it finds that there is a suspicious ship or they get such tips or are closer, that they may act until the police arrive. This Agreement shall also have its addendum, which shall regulate arbitration and parties to the Agreement, may establish an arbitration tribunal consisting of 3 members and address any issues which may arise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49783	I thank the Secretary of State, you can return to your post. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, on whose behalf the esteemed colleague Ivan Celic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49784	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. The Vienna Convention is drawn up to improve cooperation between parties in the international fight against the various aspects of illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances. The Member States of the Council of Europe agreed that an article should be complemented in order to increase efforts and improve cooperation. 17 Vienna Conventions by Agreement. According to the European Report on Drugs for 2020, a number of indicators for substances most often consumed suggest that drug availability remains high. With the increased frequency of the interception of large quantities of cocaine, hashish and to an increasing extent of heroin being transported by sea, often in intermodal containers, this raises concerns about infiltration of criminal organisations into logistics routes supply chains and large ports. The amount of cocaine seized in the EU in 2018 has reached nearly 200 tonnes, the highest level ever recorded, the amount of heroin seized in the EU in the partnership between 2017 and 2018 has also unfortunately doubled, which is mainly due to large individual seizures at Antwerp port. Turkey's annual seizure of about 20 tonnes of heroin annually shows that each illegal substance has its own synosoid course, at this point heroin does not grow unlike marijuana and stimulant consumption, but this data calls for caution. A little bit of the dam was hit so hard by the crisis as an air force. It would be said with us “until one day the other is deadened. ” In early 2020, the ship's brand was also hit hard, it was expected to last for months due to problems with the manufacturing process in China and the global pandemic of COVID, but in August of last year, the cards were re-mixed for the container dam and since then the demand for container transport has been higher than the offer, which actually speaks of rerouting from air routes to sea routes. Drugs are like water, it will find its passage one way or another. At a time when passenger flights were minimised, when borders are more strictly controlled, drug traffickers have found new passages. All of us two months ago were amazed by the news that a record amount of cocaine was seized at the port of Ploche. According to police reports, about 500 kilos of cocaine was produced in a container of bananas from Latin America. He was already a hint of that, so a year ago, when he was arrested at those premises by an Italian with 25 kilos of cocaine, and then the chain sequence was seized. Today's debate in the Croatian Parliament is an opportunity to thank the employees of the MUP as well as customs on all successful actions in the past year which they have achieved in cooperation with world-renowned drug trafficking agencies such as the American Drug Agency, which has its own office in Zagreb and, of course, EUROPOL. Criminals are very easy to adapt to pandemics, European Commissioner for Home Affairs Ylva Johansson said, are being produced and released into the market of unremembered amounts of cocaine that have provided more than a billion euros for criminal networks in Latin America and Europe. According to Catherine De Bolle, the director of EUROPOL, cocaine trafficking feeds criminal structures that are used with its huge resources to filter and undermine the EU economy, public institutions and society. The arrests of smugglers in important European ports such as Antwerp, Hamburg, Rotterdam have enabled record drug confiscation such as a 23-ton shipment of cocaine at the end of February. In March of this year, Spanish police seized the first drug submarine in Malawi, continuing Operation Ferro. It has been mentioned before the smuggling of sailboats and yachts, the first drug submarine to be built on European territory, so far such cartel vessels have been used mainly in the area and have been built in Latin America. In many years of Operation Ferro, 52 people were arrested, about 3 tonnes of cocaine and 700kg of hashish were seized. These are just some of the examples of record drug seizures, especially cocaine in the EU area, which depict the seriousness of the drug trafficking situation. The Agreement implementing Article 1 shall apply. 17. The Vienna Conventions, all main issues related to the prevention of illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances by sea. The intention of the agreement is that the Member States of the Council of Europe shall, to the greatest extent possible, increase their cooperation to combat illegal maritime trade, in accordance with international law of the sea and fully respect the principle of the right to freedom of navigation. The Agreement lays down a legal framework for cooperation between the parties in those matters, each Party shall take the necessary measures to establish its jurisdiction over the relevant criminal offences when the offence is committed on a vessel flying its flag. Each Party shall also take the measures necessary to establish its jurisdiction in the relevant criminal acts committed on a vessel flying its flag or holding registration marks or a vessel bearing any other designation of nationality, any of the parties to this Agreement as well as any vessel not known to be national and which, under international law, does not have nationality. The provisions of the Agreement shall also provide for concrete measures which each party may take after obtaining the authorisation of a vessel of a party whose vessel holds a flag, in the event of a reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed on the vessel or that it has been used for those purposes, as well as the manner in which jurisdiction is exercised in a particular matter, the collection of evidence, the privileged jurisdiction, the sale of the vessel, the load, the persons and the evidence. The HDZ Club will support the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on the Illicit Trade of the Sea by which Article applies. 17th and UN Convention against Legal Trade in Intoxicating Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49785	Thank you, too, and we'll move on to another debate. The Honorable colleague Davor Dretar will speak for the House of Homeland Movement Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49786	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and distinguished colleagues. The aim of this Agreement is to improve and specify how the parties to the Vienna Convention cooperate. Accordingly, the agreement and the provisions which form the basis and a very important international framework for the cooperation of the already mentioned Member States of the Council of Europe in the fight against maritime drug trafficking. The Agreement also lays down the legal framework and institutional cooperation between the States of the Parties in order to improve cooperation in the field of the fight against illicit trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances by sea in accordance with international law of the sea and with full respect for the principle of freedom of navigation. Any action taken on the basis of the agreement shall take into account the need not to interfere or affect the rights, obligations and exercise of the competence of coastal states in accordance with international law of the sea. There are a few other interesting parts in this agreement, so I believe it's worth repeating. The Republic of Croatia understands the provision of the Article. 6th Agreement in a way that the flag State will assess and approve, individually, any action taken in the requested application by the State requesting approval to stop and board a vessel in waters outside the territorial sea of any party and take certain or any other actions specified by the Agreement. In accordance with Art. 8th century 2 of the Agreement declares that, when acting as a State which takes action, the measures shall be subject to the condition that persons who are its nationals are committed to the flag State under Article 2 of the Agreement. The 15th and then convicted of a relevant criminal offence have the possibility to transfer to a state which is taking measures to maintain the sentence imposed. The above facts and decisions are part of this agreement, which we are discussing today and there is no doubt about it, there is a broad political consensus between all parties and individuals. We are all aware that the use of illicit drugs is a major problem in general for individuals, families, communities and countries across Europe and the world. In addition to the devastating impact of drugs on health and society, the market for illicit drugs is also a major part of criminal activities in European society and, of course, globally. The illegal drug trade is an international job in which unfortunately Croatian citizens also participate using Croatian flag vessels. At the time of the Covid-19 disease pandemic, when most airports were or are still interrupted, as well as the air lines, the sea routes received exceptional importance in the transport of illicit intoxicating agents. The smugglers use every opportunity, so they also use the fact that stronger border controls are despite the lack of personnel in the customs service in the ports. One of the techniques says that drugs are hidden in ships, and then locally transports super-speed speedboats that can escape possible police persecution through powerful engines. What we must be most concerned about is the fact that this mode of transport of intoxicating agents sometimes takes place with the knowledge of people who, by their employment, should be the most active in stopping such phenomena. The dangerous fall of morality that has hit Croatian society over the past few decades has led to extremely worrying phenomena that Croatian citizens are engaged in the drug trade chain, and sometimes civil servants, sometimes just as observers, couriers and sometimes as organizers themselves. We're all aware and we're often disgusted when we read about corrupt cops who organized drug chains, inspectors who tipped off the time and place of surveillance or actions, corrupt customs officers who missed containers without control or anything like that. It is clear, of course, that only by strengthening measures against such persons, where, of course, I congratulate both the Croatian police and all the competent services on the cleaning of dolls in their ranks, we must work even harder, we must also create well-paid, highly trained and equipped both police officers and customs officers, and of course also members of the Croatian Navy because the fact is that drug dealers, we can even call them top businessmen in a joke and they will know how to use every flaw and every failure we have. I also remind you of the importance of the Law on the Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, which we recently discussed here with special emphasis on security protocols, of which in Croatian ports are sometimes turned into a door for intoxication in Croatia and, of course, further into Europe. The good news is that after a massive amount of cocaine has been seized that enters Croatia's customs administration through the port of Ploče, it finally decides to obtain a mobile RTG device to scan suspected containers. It's mostly banana containers delivered from South America where cocaine is smuggled. A $2m mobile X-ray device will arrive at the Customs Office, which will allow customs officers to control containers faster and more efficiently, which has not been possible so far, so Ploče port has been a soft cocaine smuggler for months. $2 million is a large amount, nor should the cost of maintaining such expensive technology be forgotten, but it is certainly a very low price to pay to stop the intoxication of drugs on Croatian and European soil, which, of course, imposes on us a realistic conclusion that the purchase of such equipment should be financed by the EU. The text of the agreement regulates also very sensitive issues of the sovereignty of ships and persons with Croatian citizenship or Croatian flag. They are particularly demanding to treat suspicious vessels located in international waters. Each action taken pursuant to this Agreement should and shall take into account the need to avoid interference in or without prejudice to the rights and obligations and exercise of the competence of coastal States in accordance with international sea rights. We must not forget either the situation in which the vessel may or may not have a flag or that it is stateless, but there is a clear agreement. A party having reasonable reasons to suspect that a vessel without a nationality or which is in some way equated with a non-stated vessel on the basis of international law is involved or used to commit a relevant criminal offence shall inform those other parties for which it appears to be the most affected and may request assistance from any such party in disabling its use for that purpose. The party requested to provide such assistance under the means available to it. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that we are all aware that the drug trade and its use are almost impossible to eradicate, but that our duty and our mission in the first place is to create a legal framework that will make it impossible and, of course, as a state, I will once again invest in training and equipment of top police or any necessary staff to stop or reduce this monster to the least possible measure. Since the text of this agreement has already passed the first reading in HS, the House Movement Representatives Club will also support it in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49787	Thank you. We now move to a third debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club will speak to a respected colleague, Niksha Vukas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49788	Mr. President of the HS, state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The passing of this law preceded a long road that began in December 1998. in Vienna, when the UN Convention is drawn up against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, etc. The Vienna Convention with the purpose of improving co-operation between state parties in the international fight against various aspects of illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances. The Republic of Croatia was on 8 October 1991. On the basis of the notification of succession, it became the parties to the Vienna Convention. A further step in the successful implementation of certain provisions of the Vienna Convention has been taken by the Member States of the Council of Europe, which are parties to the Vienna Convention, to the greatest extent possible, to increase efforts and cooperation on the prevention of illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances by means of the police, and have agreed on how it is. 17. The Vienna Conventions need to be complemented by an agreement that would implement and increase its effectiveness. After that in 1995. an agreement on the illegal trade in the sea by which Article is applied has been drawn up. 17. The UN Convention against the Illegal Trade in Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and is open to the signing of the Member States of the Council of Europe which are parties to the Vienna Convention with the possibility that the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe may, in accordance with Article. The 28th agreement after consulting the States to the parties to the agreement also invites any state party to the Vienna Convention which is not a member of the Council of Europe to join the agreement. The Agreement entered into force on 1 May 2000 and the Republic of Croatia signed it on 7 November 2007, subject to internal ratification. At this point, the agreement shall be numbered by 15 States Parties. The objective of the agreement is to improve and specify ways of cooperation of the parties to the Vienna Convention, according to which the agreement contains provisions which constitute a fundamental international framework for the cooperation of the Member States of the Council of Europe in the fight against trade in maritime drugs in accordance with international law of the sea and with full respect for the principle of freedom of navigation. The following provisions of the Agreement prescribe definitions, general principles of cooperation and jurisdiction, operational safeguards, costs and damages issues, the establishment of a monitoring committee and concrete measures which each party State may take in the event of a reasonable suspicion that a relevant criminal offence has been committed on board or that the same has been used for those purposes. Any action taken on the basis of the agreement shall take into account the need not to interfere or affect the rights, obligations and exercise of the competence of coastal states in accordance with international law of the sea. The final step in the implementation of the provisions of the Agreement is to adopt the Law attesting the Agreement on the Illicit Trade of the Sea by which Article applies. 17. UN Conventions against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances. Subject law, which lies before us in accordance with Article. The 140th century is the 1st century. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the prescribed procedure shall confirm that the already signed agreement is to be ratified in order to ensure that its provisions in the meaning of Article 1(1) of the Treaty are complied with. 141. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia which, under their legal power, are above the law, but under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the nature of the procedure itself, the validation of international contracts governed by the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, which also formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract and the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the text of the international contract cannot be changed or complemented, is proposed in accordance with Article. 207. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall discuss and accept this final draft of the law in a single reading. Art. The 3rd Act provides that, when laying down the Croatian ratification document, statements will be made in accordance with Articles 6, 8, 17, 23, 24 of the Agreement and the reserve in accordance with Article 24 of the Law. The 19th Agreement, and that the implementation of the law itself is within the scope of the state administration's internal affairs and defence and judicial matters. The law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the National Journal and, on the day of the entry into force of the law, the Agreement referred to in Article 1 of this Act shall not apply to the Republic of Croatia and the data on its entry into force shall be published in accordance with the provisions of Article 30(3). Laws on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. The SDP representative club supports the adoption of this law aimed at strengthening cooperation between parties to the agreement with the aim of protecting society against serious criminal offences, in this case protecting against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances by sea, aware that without quality cooperation with other international entities, we cannot reduce the risk of harm arising from the daily presence of drugs on our streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49789	Thank you. We are now going to the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected colleague of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49790	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and MPs, so here is what is being proposed by this law, which is available through the Croatian Assembly website and based on everything we have said today in this assembly, we have had the opportunity to hear and understand our citizens. First, if there was a Vienna Convention of 1988, then the members of the Council of Europe had long ago concluded that a special agreement was needed in order to further strengthen the international co-operation of the Council of Europe in the implementation of the Vienna Convention. From the presentation of the HDZ Representatives Club, we learned that drug availability is still high and that criminal organisations are easily infiltrated into logistics supply chains. We also learned that there is good co-operation with the bodies that are fighting international drug trafficking, so with the US Drug Agency and Europol, which included that these criminal groups are easily and quickly adapting to the pandemic. The question is how quickly and easily the circumstances are adapted to Member States that, 25 years later, finally ratify an international agreement that should be fear and shivering to criminal organisations. The HDZ representative said that examples of record seized evidence of how serious the situation is. Well, I'd say the situation is serious, but we're not serious. Because if there is an answer to the question that the mechanisms of cooperation that clearly exist all these 25 years have failed, we have not heard the answer to that question in this debate, and I would like to know it. I want to know how we need a legal framework that was designed 25 years ago, and some other model of cooperation that would be appropriate and tailored to the needs of time in which we live and according to the current situation. Still, it seems to me that in the last 25 years, the world has changed, but bureaucratic mentality has obviously not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49791	Thank you, too. Does the final representative of the proposer want any more? No, then I'll close the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49793	We now move to the second item of the agenda, under: (a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and (b) Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 23. Law on energy regulation. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation, respectable Secretary of State Ivo Milatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49794	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The Law on Energy Regulatory Activities established that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is managed by a administrative board of five members, one of which is the chairman of the Board of Directors and one of its deputy members. The President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 23(3) of the Law. The president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency are appointed at the time of 7 years with the possibility of another election. Pursuant to Article 26(1) of the Law, the term of office of the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency shall cease to be the decision on the resolution taken by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the expiry of the period to which the President or member of the Governing Council has been appointed. As a member of the Governing Council of Croatia's Energy Regulatory Agency, Mr.sc. Sonja Tomasic Škevin, on 15 November 2020, expired on the term of office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the meeting held on 22 April 2021, established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency on 15 November 2020 for the expiry of the term of office. At the same meeting, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established, on the basis of the procedure under its published public call, a proposal for a decision to appoint Dr.sc. Alenka Kinderman Lončarević is a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. In accordance with Article 23. The law on the regulation of energy activities of the appointing process began with the publication of a public invitation to propose a candidate containing the conditions for the selection of presidents and members of the board of directors, the time limit for the submission of the candidacy and the necessary documentation for the submission of the candidacy. The collection of candidates for a member of the Governing Council was conducted by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. Eight applications have been received on public call, which have been found to be complete and that candidates meet the requirements of the public call in question. The Committee of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development held talks with candidates on 22 December 2020 and drew up a report on the public call carried out. On the basis of the public call made, Dr. Sc. Alenka Kinderman Lončarević, mag. ing. Oil mining, which was acquired at the University of Zagreb at the Faculty of Mining and Geology and Oil, which has also acquired academic degrees and this mag. sc. Oil mining at the University of Zagreb at the Faculty of Mining and Geology and Oil, etc. from energy at the University' di Roma La Sapienza in Italy. It starts its working life as a trainee in the Kutin Petrochemia, and from 1997 it begins its work at the Energy Institute of Hrvoje Pozar, first as a junior researcher from 1997 to 2002, and from 2004 to 2019 as a senior researcher and deputy head of the Energy System Planning Department, in order to start acting as Head of the Energy System Planning and Chief Expert at the Institute from 2020. The proposed candidate has been a lecturer at various workshops and seminars at the International Atomic Energy Agency since 2010. It also has extensive international experience on various projects, is author of 73 publications, which concludes that it has been highlighted by scientific and professional work in the field of energy and that it is worthy of public action and of being a member of the Governing Council of the Agency. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to HS to accept the proposed candidate. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49795	We have several replicas, the first distinguished representative of Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49796	Dear Secretary of State, we have on the Committee on War Veterans one complaint by one candidate, Mr Dalibor Mikulić, who complained to us that you, as a competent ministry, or commission, did not respect the fact that the existing provisions of the Law on Croatian Defence in his candidacy, namely the evaluation and evaluation of all his other references. So please, what do you know about this and did you really ignore it and why have you disregarded the current provision of the Law on Croatian Defence in this case?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49797	Thank you for asking the question, dear Parliamentarian Sacic. I know that Mr. Mikulić has expressed his appeal. This whole process was, among other things, and lasted this long because in this, this process of reasoning and documentation and everything else, of course, he also received a solution according to the law on the basis of which his appeal was rejected. What I can say, we are convinced in the Ministry that we are this, that we have implemented this procedure by law and simply that it was the only possible solution, aware that we had to respect the Law on Defence, and in the solution it was all clear this, in, and in the explanation of the solution everything is clear and said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49798	The next replica, the distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49799	Good afternoon. First of all, I must warn the Croatian public that the Croatian public is being deceived here about the procedure and the whole process that is taking place in a very suspicious way. My first question, why the Government of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council and the appointment of a new member, sent only on 22 April of this year, which means that more than 6 months after the legal deadline, this means that practically all decisions of this body since 15 November of last year are questionable and other things, I am interested in whether the proposed new member of the Administrative Council of Alenka Kinderman Loncaevic is in conflict of interest because her husband is allegedly in the 3 Supervisory Committees of HEP companies' daughters, this is strictly prohibited under the Energy Regulatory Act, that a member or his family are at the same time in the administration, the Supervisory Board or any other body in energy companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49800	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49801	Thank you. As far as this, suspicious way is concerned, there is no suspicious way, we have clearly, transparently done this procedure. It lasted, like I said, because there were complaints and it all kind of went away. As regards the functioning of the Governing Council, there was no problem with the remaining 4 members being sufficient for the Council to function. Each Council decision should have a minimum of 3 votes since the law said that any decision, in order to be legitimate, must have half the total number of council members, means that HERA worked without any problem. Remember, we used to have a situation where there were only three members of the HERA. And as for the conflict of interest, the Law of Conflict of Interest is clear and we have even received official interpretation, in the case of Mrs. be elected here from this esteemed House, her husband must resign to places that are incompatible with this function.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49802	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49803	So again, the public is being deceived. Therefore, from the Statute of HERA, it clearly states, the Governing Council decides by majority of the votes of all members of the Governing Council, not to the majority of the members present, but to the majority of all members and other matters, in the very process of selecting members of the Governing Council, the key thing is that they must also contribute to a statement that neither they nor members of their families are in the board of directors, the supervisory board of some regulatory agency, or some institution associated with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49804	This was a pure replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. The next replica, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49805	Dear Secretary of State, I'm interested in what it feels like to stand before HS and explain something that is illegal in front of the body that passed that law. Here you have listed a large number of falses, the first false is the fact that you have called the competition 13. 11, and the lady's term was due to expire 15. 11th of the same year, so that 30-day deadline the government was due to meet on the resolution, you couldn't meet in these two days. My question to you is how can you even come before the Croatian Parliament that passed the law and propose something that is illegal, which did not comply with the law or the procedure that this Croatian Parliament adopted? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49806	Thank you, sir, for answering this earlier on about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I said clearly, the decisions were made by 3 votes minimally, that means half the total number, I didn't say the total number of those present, I said 3 votes minimal. And it's true that the lady was supposed to make a statement, she made a statement, mentioned her husband, and exactly in accordance with the law and procedures, she said what would happen when she was elected. And that's why we got the Commission's statement of conflict of interest. So, that part made by procedure and as far as observation is concerned, I feel good in front of this House, and I don't think I'm doing anything illegal, I accept the criticism that we're possibly a little late with the procedure, and here, in the name of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I apologize to this home, but that's the only thing here is "dispute". We didn't endanger the board of directors because I'm going to mention, 2.5, 3 years old. The council just worked with three. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49807	The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49808	You hurt the Rules of Procedure when you let the Proposer talk about what I didn't ask him. I mean, I asked a clear question, he was answering something that a colleague had said before in her injury to the Rules of Procedure and I think you should have warned him and put him back on the subject. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49809	Okay, you're right... He also answered a part of your inquiry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He answered your line, but you're right to warn him because he was responding to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next replica, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49810	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I must admit that when this debate began, I feel like in that joke, "woman, do you believe more with your own eyes or with my own words?" So, the law is absolutely clear, you're late, you know that the members of the board are appointed to 7 years and you know exactly when the mandate expires and you know exactly when to call the competition, so you're already late. In doing so, we are all equal before the Constitution, but apparently certain procedures can go this way, and we are determined that way. What I am clearly asking you, where is the minister? It's the minister who was supposed to be here defending a decision like this, that's the first thing. The second thing is, why didn't you call the competition, or why the minister didn't call in accordance with the law, so the minister didn't follow the law in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49811	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49812	I have said and taken on myself or the Ministry of Guilt that we have simply been late for certain objective reasons which are now simply irrelevant at this time, the fact is that we have been late but we have carried out the procedure as it has been and for all these years since this law exists, this agency and since this esteemed home has decided on these members of the Board, whether their resolution, whether they are appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49813	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Light of the shower, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49814	Here, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, given that today's debate on this agenda is actually continuing with a debate on the parent body of the Committee on Economy, allow me also a few words as chairman of the Committee and an interpretation of the whole and debate and the very legislative and parliamentary practice itself that has existed from the regulatory past 8,9 years. To say no to the opening part about the reasoning of the person who is being resolved and the person who is being appointed, it is important that some things are explained today. From the composition of the Governing Council from the duration of the mandate to the process of appointment and resolution, all of this is regulated by the Energy Regulatory Act. And on the board, as I said, I opened up a very dynamic debate about the interpretation of art. 23, 24, 27. The law I mentioned. From the work of the MPs, it has been questioned whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia should have submitted a proposal to the Croatian Parliament for a appointment of a member of the Governing Council or was sufficient to provide a reasoned list of candidates according to Article. Paragraph 24. The law, based on which the interview procedure with candidates would be conducted by the Croatian Parliament's parent board and set out the proposals for a decision and in this case it is the Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. It's not on the Committee on Economics, colleagues and colleagues to interpret the provisions of the law. Whether the provision wanted to express one thing and the actual text contained another, but the Committee carried out the procedure based on the practice of submitting the proposal and the decision to appoint and resolve the government as it was back 8 years ago, meaning the practice we had at the last meeting of the Committee on Economy was continued over the past 8 years. Therefore, the Energy Regulation Act has been in force since 2012 and the amendments and additions to the laws of 2018, meaning the last amendments and amendments to the laws did not apply, I stress, to the provisions concerning the Governing Council or any procedures. So, the ministry that was then the holder of the law, because we know that it came into force in October 2012. The then government and then parliamentary majority have introduced the practice of proposing HS and appointing and resolving members of the HERA Steering Council as it has arrived in the parliamentary procedure even now, which means it has been coming since 2012. This is important to highlight, what the legislator wanted and said, and how the legislative interpretation of the legal text shows exactly through the conduct that has become established practice and established procedure in HS. So since 2013. until 2016 We have 4 appointment and resolution procedures on the government's proposals, and the latest proposals and procedure that preceded this point was 2018, here I have them all, all these procedures and all the signatures of the president of HS, the first 4 of which is signed by the president of HS, the esteemed former president, Mr. Josip Leko. The provisions of the legal text should be seen systematically, not one by one in its context, and the practice interprets them in terms of how the proposal has arrived in the parliamentary procedure this time. But I'd like to go back to the board hearing again. Whether such a practice is good or not, whether the provisions of the law are clear or not. There is a procedure for credible interpretation of the law or proposing amendments to the law, all of which has its duration. But now the Committee on Economy had no reason to act against the long-standing parliamentary practice and practice of the Government of the Republic of Croatia initiated by the very ones who passed the law. Also, as regards the legality of the HERA decision, which was also the subject of the debate, since the administrative council had not had one member for several months, the same was not questioned. The Governing Council shall decide by a majority of the votes of all members of the Governing Council, which shall be sufficient in any case by 3 members. It is quite clear that this is about an instructive period which does not delay the behaviour of the applicant, in this case it is about the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not some pre-inclusive deadline which would then be legally defined and which would make it impossible for the government to act. Of course, that too was said by the promoters that it would have been better if it had been carried out within the legal framework as defined, but that instructive period does not delay the conduct, and thus does not question the legality of the work of HERA in the term of office when there was no member. Similar practice of HS, here to expand a little more, there is also the choice of members of the DCOM and the Law on Electronic Media, the election of the Council for Electronic Media, the same as in the case of HERA. The difference is, for example, in the Law on HRT where it clearly states that the Assembly is choosing, which means that the Assembly also calls and conducts a public call and sets out a list of candidates and proposes, which is not the case for a comparative if we compare these procedures and the legislative framework and the parliamentary practice that we have in this case. So there is a possibility that, in the time ahead, this Law on Amendments and Supplements is changing, but what is now being done is exclusively parliamentary practice stemming from the 2012 law. 6 times, of which 4 decisions were made in the time of the government of Zoran Milanovic and the time of the chairman-in-Office of HS President Mr Leka. There's only so much to explain that it's not mystifying itself, but to see the situation realistically. Okay, the debate has been argued, but at this point, we believe that the practice is what it was, as it was this time on the Committee on Economy, and in that sense, I think all these decisions are legal and we have acted in accordance with the spirit of interpretation of the 2012 law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49815	Now, before I open the debate, I'd like to inform you that after this point is finished, we're going to move immediately to the club's point of view. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49816	Your Honor, the chairman of the board has been injured by an officer. 238, bringing up things that don't stand. It doesn't make sense for HS that if someone was wrong once then that mistake should be rehearsed all the time. And one thing you didn't mention was that in 2018, the Energy Regulation Act was amended, which was just about to ensure the Agency's independence from politics. And if you had put it in your debate, then you would have come to a completely different conclusion from the one you're coming to that some mistake that's happened over and over again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49817	Okay, this has already been a replica of your esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49818	It's not because we discussed it on the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49819	I can see that there was a debate on the board, too, and then in that sense, this wasn't your injury to the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica. You're getting a warning. Representative Tušek, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49820	I know that I will get a warning, and I will also say that as my colleague Brumnic said, I apologize to the other colleagues and colleagues on this note, that it is false. Yes, you say things that are not facts, amendments and additions to the law of 2018. They don't regulate at all the procedure we're discussing today and what's at stake from your position, and from our position is not controversial at this time. So, nothing, so you're kind of cheating on the public and creating topics where there's no topic. It means amending and supplementing the law of 2018. They're not talking about this at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49821	Here's a warning for you, so you get a warning. I'm opening a debate in clubs, the first club is the Centre and GLAS MP, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49822	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. When you come from the executive authority to the legislative authority, or when you are in the executive authority, and then you come, you have the opportunity to be and sit in parliament, then somehow you have some kind of restraint, you have some understanding and some things, no matter when you're an opposition, which would not be common for you to have an understanding, somehow you know the problems you encounter and understand. But there's a moment where you have to say enough, that's exactly the moment. Don't do anything stupid from the MPs, don't do what you do. We now have a parallel state in which we have one story, so the story related to the President or the President of the Supreme Court where our prime minister walked around and said it is inadmissible that he will never vote for her because she does not respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, although it is very questionable what she should have followed or anything. After that came to the committee, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Justice said we will invite all five candidates and will discuss them and hear about them. In parallel, we have a government headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic, who is 22 April 2021. Decision to expire as of 15 November 2020 on the appointment of a member of the Governing Council. So, this same Mr. Plenkovic and the same government have no problem making a decision with April 22 to stop something from happening on November 15th. Well, they may have made a decision that the crown had stopped, and we didn't even know that. So we have this parallel system. Equally, there have been eight candidates, and I am not going to refer to any candidate or candidate in my debate at all, we have eight candidates, and the government is proposing to us, and so it comes to the committee, the candidate who has been elected, and it gives the Parliament to decide. You can be handlifters in Parliament, you can be obedient and air-conditioned, but you need to know when you are handlifters and when you nod why you nod. We do not want to be handlifters and we do not want to nod and we want the procedure to be respected in this country, and the procedure would not have been by chance to name members for seven years, why they are named for seven years, and at different times their mandate begins, so that there will always be someone who has experience, so as not to come so as not to start all at the same time, so that these challenges do not happen. No one came somewhere late because it was too late because it was too far away, but because it was too late. So, the dead cold one, the same government, and that same ministry, is calling for members of the board of directors on November 13th, even though they know that one of them expires on them on November 15th, which in two days would all be settled and all decisions made. The competent ministry would have held talks with the candidates, given the credit sheets as it did, gave its Committee on the Economy to all candidates, that the Committee on the Economy should take a certain position, and I don't see why we, as well as in some other cases, wouldn't have the opportunity to vote for the candidate we want. But no, this Prime Minister Plenkovic and this government are interpreting the laws exactly as it suits them. In one case, we are dissecting in public what it is, and in the other case that the 15th November end of the term doesn't matter, that on 22 April we made a decision to stop a mandate from 15 November, that we just delivered to the Ranglists' Parliament and said this is the best candidate to choose him. They're not parliamentary advocates handlifters, they're not chorus representatives in the fog. And if you're going to raise your hand and if you're going to vote for someone, at least know who, and the minimum is respect for the procedure. If the government doesn't respect the procedure, if the prime minister doesn't respect the procedure, how do you expect people to do it? How will our citizens respect any procedure and say why we are talking about a problem in the judiciary? Well, because it doesn't matter, because nothing matters. It is only important how the great leader says and how those who nod the great leader and bow will vote. So this is an example of how you don't work. There is little of us in the Parliament today, usually Friday if there is no vote there is little of us, when the vote is known and how it comes and votes and doesn't think about what's being voted or not, I'm really reading the second round of choices, there's obviously panic in the field, and it's good that panic and so it's good for the elections to be interesting, but my people, so you treat us like we're kids who came from the road and you can give anything and they have to nod and say yes. In that law it was from 2012 and the change was 2018, so if anything went wrong, you had the government of Zoran Milanovic being the 12th government, today we have the 15th government, today we are talking about the 15th government and you are all responsible for the government of Zoran Milanovic. Well, you could have changed in the last five, six years all the laws you wanted, you could have regulated everything because every time you had the hands of people who would vote. You decide today to vote, that today is not Friday but Saturday, and that Mr. Plenkovic tells you that today you should vote that Saturday you have the hands to vote. We can scream until Judgment Day that today is Friday, not Saturday you'll do it. This is an indication that you don't care about the citizens at all, that you don't care about anything at all. All you care about is that HDZ and HDZ have secure syncs. And there's no progress in this country, there's no step forward until we say the end. Our board president, I am the same in the Committee on Economy and I see that there are several of us in the Committee on Economy, the chairman of the Committee on Economy is on the last committee when the distinguished representative Brumnic asked, so what's the meaning of this committee you know what he's said, you can read it in the papers, says that I have to listen to you, or maybe I'm cartooning, so if it's the president of a committee. So, we can think about each other whatever we want, we can think that some are too tall, others are too low, some are too old, some are too young, some are good talking, some are bad talking, we can and we have to differ, we have to differ worldly, we have to differ in ideas because one country can go only forward if we differ in ideas, and if we all think the same thing, then we're North Korea, so we don't have any problem, we also think who succeeds, it will. I don't want to run these countries, I don't want to get out of this assembly, I want to speak out loud and clear. You who have long known me or who have had opportunities with me to be this is my second call not to count the short one, you know that I am reasonable, you know that I have understanding and a number of things that as an opposition I shouldn't even have understanding but I have from that introduction that I said, but we have to be polite. We need to be polite to each other, even if we can disagree with someone's discussion, but we have to be polite, if we're not polite, then we have a serious problem here. So, sir, this is a message, Mr. Plenkovic, this is not a message from the minister, the minister just did what Mr. Plenkovic told him. If the minister had the strength and courage, he would come here and defend why they were late, why is the government's decision with the 22nd April to settle with the 15th November after and if this goes through. There will be no more reason for us not to go through any other things in this assembly. A competent ruling party would withdraw this proposal and at least make the procedure before the Committee on Economy right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49823	The next debate is in the Dominique Movement Club, the distinguished representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49824	Dear Mr. Chairman, state secretary with associate, colleague and colleague, it's nice to hear and see Mr. Tušek after a long break. We haven't heard from him, nor seen him for a month in a campaign in Zagorje from which he came because he was moved aside, and here he is now here to defend the appointment of an obvious resort for which he is a top expert. I'm glad I saw him here again and heard him. As my respected predecessor said, we are playing a game of parliament, we are playing democracy, we are playing politics especially on this opposition side of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament because there are 75 of us. 76 magnificent ones will always make a decision that suits them. So just to remind you that for the director of the library, the installation of a plumber is not, of course, the readout of a respected gentleman, it may be one of the most written and cultural representatives of this distinguished craft, but we all know that without the booklet, the party's progress book does not have much higher up there on the slightly higher balconies and on the higher spheres of Croatian society. The other day, a senior Zagreb official, Mr. Pavle Kalinic, admitted it to us, who said it was normal. It became normal for him, unfortunately only after his boss moved to other dimensions and he felt a little bit of his political end and suddenly became a caring and sober politician who understood Croatian reality. So there is a respected colleague, Tušek, who defends political appointments here, apparently returned to primary school and now has to do beginner jobs for his party. But I believe it will soon move you to a better place. The proposal to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency must be implemented in accordance with the applicable laws, and the procedure that the ministry headed by Minister Coric has implemented so far is simply not in accordance with the Energy Activity Regulation Act. The law makes it clear, Article 24(1) explicitly states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is required at least 30 days before the end of the term of office of a member of the Governing Council to propose to the Croatian Parliament to discharge the duties of the same member or member of the Administrative Council to which the term of office expires and to provide a reasoned list of candidates for the selection of a new member of the Governing Council. To remind the respected Mrs. Sonja Tomasic Skevin's mandate expired last November 15th, the government sent a motion for a decision at a plenary session on April 30th this year. The government is six and a half months late. We should not, of course, be surprised when we discussed a report by the Advocate General for 2018 a few days ago. A public invitation was issued in the National Journal on 13 November last year, i.e. 2 days before the end of the term of office of the respected Mrs Tomasic Škevin. Furthermore, the interpretation of Article 23(3) is also very questionable. The law on the regulation of energy activities as interpreted by this and the previous governments. Whether or not the Government is competent to propose a candidate's assembly or just to collect applications and check whether they are valid. This should be reflected in the Committee on Legislatives, clarify and establish the procedure so that in the future we do not put the law in place in one way or another but our rulings have already shown us many times that the law does not apply to them. Laws, ladies and gentlemen, bring this home, the Croatian Parliament. If there are doubts about interpretation and application of the law then they should be clarified and removed here and in this place, not in some darkened offices or underground clubs for privileged ones. Furthermore, among the upcoming legal applications for the competition, attention was drawn to Mr Dalibor Mikulic's application. He spoke to us, pointed to the fact that he was a Croatian defender. That information in Mr Mikulić's resume, which has arrived in the material for this item on the agenda, is gone. Therefore, it remains unclear why the representatives of HS have been denied this information by the competent ministry. Let me remind you, by virtue of the Law on Croatian Defence and Family Members, Art. 102, defenders have an advantage on equal terms when hiring in public institutions which are the founder or one of the founders of the Republic of Croatia. We often hear regrettably that the defenders are a privileged group in our society and that they have many privileges. They're being Stigmatized. They're getting muddled. It is forgotten that without the victim of Croatian defenders, we would never have our own country, and the question is that history in these places would go at all. And in this House of Commons are Croatian defenders to whom I urge them to insist on implementing the Law on Defence, not only in this case, but in a number of cases where defenders cannot exercise their rights. Our law is good or less good, but there are numerous cases when they are not implemented. At the very beginning, I asked, the deadlines prescribed by the Energy Activity Regulation are not respected. Well, then, logically, I'm asking, and in this particular case, why is the Defense Act not respected? When we read the laws, it will seem to the defenders that honey and milk flow, that they have huge rights, that they and their families are privileged groups in society, and the reality is completely different. What I'm talking about here is just one of the many examples that shows that defenders are neither privileged nor privileged in any way. We pass laws that give them many rights. We also listen in this House, that it is too much, and the truth is that the defender is having difficulty or in no way being able to achieve these rights. Finally, the Homeland Movement will not support the Government's proposal, i.e. The competent ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49825	Next is the debate on behalf of SDP's Representatives' Club, a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49826	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to start with one sentence that I said on the board, I'm really interested in what's the point at this point in this debate, but what's the point of coming to the board, having a board, coming to the meetings of HS, saying, if what you're saying and what you're saying to the board and in HS someone's going through one ear, going to the other and doing further what they do very often, and saying that it's wrong. Dear colleague Tušek, there's a reason why we're talking in this hall, there's a reason why committees are being held in this building, not in some basement. There is a very clear reason, which is for Croatian citizens to see what we are discussing and why we are discussing it. I can't understand, I asked it in the replica my question, that someone in front of the government of the Republic of Croatia, who was actually elected in this House, then the mandate is drawn from this House, comes and talks about something that is illegal, which is contrary to what HS has brought. Is it some kind of law, intensity, desire, but something this House voted on and why the Croatian Government and all the institutions in this country should function. I'm going to reach out to a colleague who spoke before me when he mentioned Croatian defenders. This is the second time the same minister has a problem with respecting the Law on Croatian Defence. If I'm not mistaken, he also had it in the appointment of a lady, no, no, you, the minister, the appointment of a lady in a national park. I'm not going in if that law is good, bad, whether it's doing what we wanted it to do, but we have it. The Croatian government that implements Croatian laws should also respect it. Ask yourself a question about what will be done by Croatian citizens who watch a parliament like this and a government like this that clearly demonstrates a desire for non-compliance and non-implementation of the law. Well, I guess if the body thinks that the laws are not to be respected, it's rather difficult to expect those below to respect the same laws. The president of HS came here today in the morning obviously to take pictures, but at the end of his presentation, he said something that, like that, moved me to do. He says he calls for respect and respect. I would totally agree with him, but then today under the second point we are discussing here at HS, we show complete disrespect for the laws we have passed and total disrespect for the parliamentary representatives, those who decide. No one puts HS in law for no reason to decide who would be in the principal or the board of directors of the agency. He probably had some reason why he put it in because he could also put it to be appointed by the government, there was no obstacle, the government could name it, but someone obviously wanted parliamentary representatives to talk about it and name what they thought best. I really don't want to say anything about the candidates themselves here because when he came to the board, he said that all the praises were valuable and that everyone was great. Here's what I'm gonna say, too, so I think everybody's great. The other day in this assembly, we were witnessing that the Committee for, it seems, the judiciary called on all candidates who applied for the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to make it clear that it was proposed by the President of the State, otherwise I can understand it, that two days after that on the Committee on the Economy, it would be two days later to question why the candidates did not come to see who these candidates were, to talk to them, and then to choose the best one, to get the answer that we had nothing to discuss, that we could only vote on what the government had proposed, and the government had to submit the list of candidates ranked according to the article of the law. If someone has to send us a list of candidates ranked, then I guess we can talk about it afterwards, ask someone why he ranked someone one way, someone else, what he considered. I agree, someone told me after the board, and I noticed that the lady who was proposed here has a really respectable number of scientific papers, which should show that she is professional and capable and I can agree with that. As the government does, the government actually shows the complete inability to manage. The promoter here said there were objective reasons for delays. When you know the procedure, when you know that procedure seven years old. Before then the only, but really the only objective reason for being late is incompetence. Here, I won't anymore, I can't support this procedure. I'm saying, you wouldn't want anyone to realize that the person who's been proposed I mean something bad, and I think that all eight candidates deserve to be candidates for that function, but what the government is doing and the relationship they're dealing with HS is embarrassing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49827	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Tomislav Okroš.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49828	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, esteemed MPs and MPs. We have before us a debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and a debate on the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The founder of HERA is the Republic of Croatia, and HERA is responsible for its work HS. HERA is managed by an administrative council with five members, one of which is the President of the Governing Council and one of its deputy members. The President and members of the Governing Council shall appoint HS at the time of 7 g. with the possibility of reelection. On the basis of the provision of the Article, The 26th century is the 1st wheel. 1. The law on the regulation of the energy activities of the President and members of the Governing Council of HERA shall cease the mandate by a decision on the discharge from the mandate of the HS on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and after the expiry of the period to which the President or member of the Governing Council of HERA has been appointed. As so far a member of the Governing Council of HERA, the masters of science Sonja Tomašić Škevin on 15 November 2020. The term of office to which it was appointed expired, the Government of the Republic of Croatia held a session held on 22 April 2021. set out a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the members of the HERA Management Council as of 15 November 2020. due to the end of the term of office. At the same meeting, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established, on the basis of the procedure carried out following a public call, a proposal for a decision to appoint a doctor of science Alenka Kinderman Lončarević to a member of the Governing Council of HERA. A doctor of science Alenka Kinderman Lončarević PhD in energy sciences at the University of Roma “La Sapienza” in Italy 2011. He's 20 years old. Experience at the Energy Institute Hrvoje Pozar, and its professional domain refers to energy statistics and energy planning. A doctor of science Alenka Kinderman Lončarević has a long experience in developing methodology for collecting energy data, creating energy balances, drawing up a budget for final energy consumption, an analysis of price accessibility, and energy poverty and predicting demand for energy, as well as in other areas. It has been included in many international projects aimed at harmonising the monitoring of national energy standards with EU standards and international standards, and is particularly active in countries in the field of innovation, ECS countries, and African and Asian countries. He participates in technical assistance projects and capacity building in ministries, statistical offices, energy companies, energy institutes, agencies and others as a lecturer at various workshops and trainings. Finally, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the proposal for a decision to resolve the member of the HERA Governing Council, as well as a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the HERA Management Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49829	Following individual debates, Anka's first respected representative, Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49830	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I'm not even in the debate on behalf of the club, and I'm not going to mention the name and last name of any single candidate, it's eight candidates, the Secretary of State who had a chance to talk to them told us on the board that all candidates are good, so I have no reason not to believe it and I think that's the case. But what I absolutely want to say in an individual debate, which is that there is no salvation for us. There is one people for you, “He is not exalted in good, but in bad is not humbled”; this is a display of power; this is a demonstration we can do whatever we want. I repeat once again, so on the one hand, Prime Minister Plenkovic is a lawyer, we have very often a chance to listen to him where he is the one who advocates a law that says laws should be respected, which we don't need him to say, we all know it together, and then when he puts on the role of Prime Minister doesn't. On 22 April, the government decided to resolve the HERA Governing Council member with 15 November, the dead cold had no problem and then waited a little longer to see who would be next. So, I don't doubt at all that a person who's going to be a member of the ruling council of HERA meets all the criteria and all the conditions, but my people don't do the circus from the Parliament, let's not act like it's absolutely irrelevant what they're saying, that it's absolutely irrelevant how the discussions go anyway and so I have 76 votes or a hand so I can go through everything. This shows that the government does not respect its own laws. The laws are passed here, the laws are passed in this House. Vlad, the prime minister doesn't care. The minister of the resistor who was in charge had neither the strength nor the energy nor the effort to say anything else to come here and to defend this. Maybe he's just making arrangements to sell INAs or buy INAs because it's there for one Christmas promised, so I guess here's what it would be good to do that for next Christmas. It can't be the government of Zoran Milanovic, it's the 2012 law, it's completed in 2018, you've had enough time and energy and effort to change that law. There is a reason why members of the board of directors, individual agencies are elected by the Parliament, elects the Parliament. It's not the role of Parliament and parliamentary deputies to be handlifters on the orders of the boss. That you respected the procedure, that you had a fundamental relationship with the opposition, to yourself, because no one would have any problem in the next case exactly saying that the law was not respected here, so it cannot be president at all until it is debated that she could be Supreme Court President because she did not respect the law because she did not give her candidacy in time. We've been listening to this for a while, and Mr. Plenkovic, along with the government, doesn't respect the law that passed this House and doesn't blink his eye and see any problem. Well, I got to tell you, I see a problem here, and not just one problem, I see a few problems. When you go wrong, anything that goes wrong can never end right, next time someone else will come and next time we'll do it. So, if you had respected the procedure, we would still have told you the government is 15, 22, if everyone who was on the board had been invited, that you would have given the opportunity for parliamentary deputies to vote, you would have avoided all of this, and you would have chosen again whoever you wanted, so you have 76 hands, so with these 76 hands you can do, literally show what you want. You today that you decided that at 12:00 there was a vote you could vote whatever you wanted and more with the explanation of this or that. Don't do it, don't do it, it's coming back to all of us, and eventually it's gonna come back to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49831	We have a replica, Honorable Representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49832	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues, the Dark Taritash. What's crucial in your debate for me is the raiser's hand. Unfortunately this HS has turned into a home where no matter who's in power has his raisers' hands. Anyone who has a government, who forms a government, has their hands up and always makes their own decisions, and in this House only those that the Government wants to make are made. Unfortunately, there is obviously a problem with the system we have in the Republic of Croatia and whoever comes to power will always have a raiser's hand. Obviously, we need to change the system that this House is not dependent on the government of the Republic of Croatia and that no one here has a majority that they can bring with them. Only then will we make the right laws, only then will we have the right debates, only then will we become some kind of democracy. Today we are not that no matter who rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49833	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49834	Thank you very much. So you've opened up a much wider question in your replica. I began my individual debate with a sentence and there is no salvation between us. We are now, so in a little over 12 hours there will be electoral silence, the second round of elections where we choose still those leaders who have not been elected in the first round and three years we have no choice. The Electoral Law is not satisfied with anyone. Because at any point in time, by ruling and at another moment of opposition and when it changes that law, it changes it before the elections when it sees that some things are wrong. It seems to all of us together that we have 3 years ahead of us, let's say we don't have 3 years, but we have 1 year in which we finally change the Election Law because I'm sure there are a number of things in the Election Law that we can agree on because everyone will always be someone who will be ruling and someone will think like this, but it's the worst thing when we don't respect the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49835	Next is an individual debate, distinguished representative Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49836	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I will try my presentation with the same sentence that my predecessor Mrak-Taritash said and what undisputed and unsettlingly speaks at the moment of our democracy and democracy is a procedure, there is no salvation for us. I'm not going to talk here today because two days ago I was talking about this subject very comprehensively, and I thought that the Committee on the Economy would pull something out of what I was saying and it wouldn't come in like Mrak-Taritash, who was the goose in the fog, but would at least respect the procedure. I will not talk here about what the minister has done because it is not the minister's problem, this is the problem of Parliament President Jandrokovic, who definitely leads to the collapse of the Croatian Parliament's dignity. Minister Čorić had by law after the European directive came to Croatia in 2018 and was voted in this House by law which must implement all the electoral activities of HER through this Assembly. The Assembly is a superior to HERA, not executive power. And it was a clear message that one such agency wanted to get out of a position that the executive authority had an impact on it. All that Minister Coric needed to do was not to call the competition as my predecessors said but to make a public call. On the other hand, I must warn my predecessors who spoke, the ministry should not and should not make any rank list and any score of candidates. The ministry was only supposed to make one decision, single out those candidates who had conditions. And that is where Parliament Speaker Jandrokovic allows violence against the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Tusek, I know you're a little wheel and you're scared of your superiors, but you had to say that the minister can't make a rank list for you and send it to the Committee on Economy and that you try to defend it there, impose it on the other members of that committee. You had to say that. It's your profession. You can't work, it's what you did, it's in the manner of students, the executioner of the Croatian judiciary of Vladimir Seks. You're his follower and heir and you're still running such a policy and don't do it. President-in-Office of the Parliament should have insisted that the Committee on the Economy discuss this and bring in or bring in all 8 candidates to discuss them and not you as the chairman of the board, did not respect the law of the Republic of Croatia which says that if you have 8 equal quality candidates, that the candidate who is a Croatian defender and who is unemployed has an unequivocal advantage in the election, and this unemployed does not mean that the candidate is unquality, he has been extremely high quality in the international market for the last 20 years working in the world's largest companies dealing with energy and these problems, but he had a legal obligation when coming out of such a system for a year to be unemployed. You knew that. You've denied it all to the Committee on the Economy. You have falsified the papers, you are the biggest culprit and President Jandrokovic is guilty of letting you do this, this is his home, he is the boss here, he is not the boss or the Prime Minister, and in addition, President Jandrokovic has the duty to protect the dignity of parliamentary representatives, regulate relations between the government and the parliament and to make sure that the Parliament never comes to an inferior position because he is the pillar of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49837	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure and two replicas. First is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49838	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague was injured by an officer. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because he acted as they should not behave in this assembly, insult people who were also representatives in this Croatian Assembly in a very ugly way by speaking about them. Mr. Vrkljan, if you have something against Mr. Seks, it would be good to face him and then when he can defend himself, discuss with him what you have to say and in this way here in the Croatian Parliament, I think it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and it is not ethical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49839	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49840	Thank you very much for asking...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49841	Please, You have two replicas, Žarko Tušek, replica. [[Vrkljan: No, you have a replica now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49842	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vrkljan, here I will indeed choose the words. You have not chosen the words, I will choose words for you by respecting your age, your academic profession and you as colleagues. Look, there is a law in 2012 that I once again stress from this law is a parliamentary practice that has been valid in the Croatian Parliament for the past 9 years. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament, where I am headed, cannot and has no framework to change this practice. It is known which committee adopts a credible interpretation of the law and it is known that the law can be changed if it is considered not in any segment to correspond to the facts i.e. what you interpret as the spirit of the law. That's what I'm trying to tell you. And in the context of this, these remarks about Croatian defenders etc., I can really only say that I appreciate and respect every Croatian defender and every man who has given something to this country, especially Croatian defenders, but we have received a proposal from the candidates that is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the interpretation of the spirit of the law [[Intruder: Time.]] As it has been so far. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49843	Please, we've got... Mr. Vrkljan, we have another replica of Mr. Vrkljan. [[Agreement: If you did not know the interpretation of the article you should have asked the Committee on Legislatives.]] We have another replica, and before that, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49844	Well, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna take the chance to answer this anyway. I understand. I'll tell you the same thing again. You're in a subordinate position, you're one wheel that you're not on your own. You can't make your own decisions, but you have to carry out the procedure. If you are not sure what procedure there is for the Legislative Committee, so you should have met a day earlier, I should say I have certain objections, I have certain objections, I have certain reports that something is not working well and I am asking for the interpretation of this law and then you would not be invited to 2012 but would not call on the EU regulation that was imposed on us in '18. And that law should be called upon by you. Don't call on '12th and Milanovic, let Milanovic go, '18. The year is the key to this election today that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49845	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of Karolina Vidović Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49846	Mr. Chairman, you injured Article 239, you had to give notice to your colleague Jelkovac because in her injury to the Rules of Procedure, she spoke of a colleague named Vrkljan insulting or belittled MPs, and in fact she defended Mr. Seks for the claim made by his colleague, saying that Shakespeare was the blood of the Croatian judiciary, which is a common known fact in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49847	Okay, that was her opinion that it was an injury. I didn't accept you'll now answer if you have Mr. Wrkljan's next line, the distinguished representative of Zeljko Lenart, and then you'll answer this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49848	Thank you. I'm gonna get on that one there's no rescue here through one joke commenting on it. The school teacher asked the children what their parents were up to, and now they explain, my dad's locksmith, the second carpenter, the third one doing something with electricity, came to Ivica, says Ivica is a shy male stripper. Of course panic at school, Dad goes to school, asks Daddy Hansel, so how could you say I'm a male stripper when you know I'm not? He says he's sorry, but how am I supposed to tell them you're a congressman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49849	Answer, if you have, well, if you don't have a thank you for your debate. Following is an individual debate of distinguished MPs Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49850	I'd just like one little remark, look, I'm glad you're defending Shakespeare with that, you're saying how you think, your mental set.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49851	You can answer to Leonard, Leonard.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49852	But also...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49853	You can answer Leonard, you can't answer him now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49854	Yes, yes, I answer to you, and I can watch my colleague, but just like a few days ago on Udba, one of our colleagues is when Shakespeare is so sunbathing that they would say to her because she's no longer in the position where he came to say goodbye, so then he asked as something then she told him I went into politics just because of you and people like you. And I would have invited you, and I'd have watched you three days ago when we spoke here and when we forgot about the referendum on the independence of the Republic of Croatia that's when you called and defended Dr. Francis Tudjman and said it was his inheritance when I asked you what was left of Franjo Tudjman's legacy in HDZ. That's when you kept your mouth shut. And you're defending Shex. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49855	You don't have a replica anymore, you don't have any more. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49856	Thank you very much. A colleague was injured by Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, because he acted as not usual under the Rules of Procedure and addressed me as the basis of my violation of the Rules of Procedure now that he was supposed to reply to the replica of a fellow MP, so I believe that he violated the Rules of Procedure. And whenever I have something to say, I'll tell you, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49857	I warned my colleague so you made a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. Next is an individual debate, distinguished representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49858	Ladies and gentlemen, when you pay taxes in Croatia and you are only one day late for that day, you are charged a fine interest. And you can get on your eyelashes but you'll have to pay for it. Any entrepreneur participating in public tenders shall be automatically disqualified if he has a tax debt and 1 lip. But the Croatian government, ministers Coric, Maric and Andrej Plenkovic do not apply to them. The HERE Administrative Council has 5 members and Sonja Tomasic Škevin's mandate expired on 15 November last year, and the government proposed a new member only after more than 6 months. The Croatian government simply does not respect either deadlines or legal obligations. The blasphemy of Croatian laws is another proof that those who are obliged to care for the respect of the law are the first ones to break them. The second fact that is important in this election is the President of the Governing Council of HERE Tomislav Jurekovic, who is officially under investigation in the case of veteran Krš-Pađen and State Secretary of Romec. And there is the secretary of state immediately after the investigation was opened, and Mr. Jurekovic, although under investigation, is still in office. When you take the fact that HERA is one of the main culprits in the case of windmen Krs-Pađene, then it is clear that Jurkovic is probably still in position because he knows too much, and this knowledge of his Plenkovic, Ćorić and Marić is obviously very afraid. HERA should regulate and ensure the legal functioning of energy in Croatia under Croatian law, and those who need to worry about this legality are themselves under investigation for breaking the laws. The logical question is being asked, ladies and gentlemen, what will this HERA with the high-paid council members do when they do not do their job and don't comply with the laws? The best evidence is the wind farm Krš-Pađen on which the Croatian citizens were damaged by more than 2 billion kunas. The very proposal for the appointment of Alenka Kinderman Lončarević is also controversial because we are coming back to the Croatian cancer of the wound, nepotism. Her husband is one of the main people in HEP and the closest associate of HEP director Frane Barbaric. Frane Barbaric was a member of the HEP administration during Ivo Sanader, but since he was originally connected to Prime Minister Plenkovic, it did not harm him, and was appointed president of HEP's administration. And when we take the tasks of HERA who has jurisdiction and over HEP itself, then the question arises how will the proposed candidate be objective to HEP if her husband is now at the very top of that HEP? Among the candidates is Mr Lahorko Wagmann, who except for his impressive resume was also a participant of the Homeland War, but Plenkovic did not propose him as a member of the governing council. That honestly doesn't surprise me. This government, namely Mr. Wagmann, would have wanted to have been a participant in the Homeland War, but not on the Croatian defense, but on the other aggressor side. In addition, the Secretary of State of State in the responsible Ministry of Economy Mile Horvat, called "Topdzija", was a member of Serbian terrorist troops in Baranja during the occupation. We wonder why Croatia is surrounded by global investors. I have just cited the reasons, and they are called "the open mockery of the law and common sense by the Croatian government". The following against the election itself and these Plenkovic candidates because Croatian citizens with the election receive another official who will pay their taxes, but he will not work according to the laws for Croatia and its citizens, but for a corrupt ruling structure. But be assured that the time of rule of law and equality will soon come in Croatia before the law of all its citizens. This will also mean making an account for all the injustices that the ruling powermakers are doing to Croatian citizens. And finally, it will create preconditions for a just and happy Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49859	Next individual debate, MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49860	Good afternoon, everyone. I can see that my time was starting long before I started talking, so I'm just warning you about that. So I asked two questions. One question was about non-compliance with the deadlines, the other question was about non-compliance with the procedure. So, the Secretary of State's answer that there are some objective reasons for delays present, then we need to hear the reasons that these reasons are objective. First of all, I have to say it's in art. 21. The Statute of HERA to decide by majority of the votes of all members of the Governing Council, therefore not by majority of the members present but by most members, therefore we have more than 6 months of irregular government, or an irregular board of directors. All decisions taken by this body by acting therefore from 15 November to today can be questioned. The answer of the Chairman of the Committee of Economy, Žarko Tušek, that it is about established practice and the spirit of interpretation is amazing. So that's what led us to "what would you like to be" right, these are established practices and these are ways of making decisions that no longer need to be supported. Why I asked the second question of the selection of candidate Lončarević, we are certainly not real here and we should not be adversaries who is the best candidate because we are not professional about it, we can only talk about the legal framework, and here the legal framework is also not respected. So it says art. 25. The energy regulation law "a member of the board of directors and members of his family may not be members of the board of directors and supervisory boards", is therefore not permitted. Art. Paragraphs 5 and 6, Art. Paragraphs 25 and 2 of the Law states that they should make a statement that they are not in conflict of interest. So that statement, we've heard here now, is on the day, but it's evident that the candidate is in conflict of interest if her husband is sitting on the 3 supervisory board of HEP. So, I mean, it's just like that. You can't do this after the procedure I'm thinking about my husband being fired and leaving these boards, so it's okay, right, but at that point things weren't right, right? Now, there's a string of meaning calculations with other members, so whether or not someone had an advantage, but I'm going to put it aside because I've already been taken some time in the beginning that I have and this little bit, so I'm going to say why this is all important. So the question can also be asked by other members, who wanted to be members of the Governing Council. It's important because in this affair I think Croatia was to say that it was determined by this 2020 affair. In the case of Josipa Rimac, therefore the President of the Governing Council of Tomislav Jurekovic, who was burdened by USKOK to be under the pressure of the former secretary at the Ministry of Management, Josipa Rimac, company C.E.M.P. Milenka Bačića illegally approved the status of a privileged electricity producer and thus enabled him to significantly increase the production price of electricity from the market, but also state subsidies. Although it does not seem to people at times that such energy regulation is extremely important and that HERA is such a powerful institution, but indeed such regulatory institutions are a key segment of the functioning of liberal capitalist and liberalised capitalist economies where they play the role of an independent arbiter in these tripartite relations between the state government of the corporate sector and consumers and in this case, as well as a number of other cases, we have so-called. the independent decisions of the arbitration panel which are highly dependent on both the corporate sector and the state government which is in favour of the corporate sector. It is therefore important that the rules on the domestic energy market are made very clear, that regulators such as HERA will be under a glass, so we should also put the procedure into question from the beginning to the end and ask the September issue where the same situation will be repeated again on September 1st because on October 1st, the mandate of the President of the Council, Tomislav Jurekovic, by the end of September 1st, means that the procedure for the election should be launched, and yet it will not... the procedure because the Parliament is going on a two-month break, the session is only 15.9. and again the same situation which is not legally regulated and which will lead us back to a cloudy situation, a vague situation of the Governing Council itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49861	We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49862	Well, here we go, more... And by making up for it we know that there are sometimes clubs that have the opportunity to give others extra time, I'm interested in exactly what you're talking about now, so we're going to have to work very quickly and talk about another person in charge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What kind of procedure is the key, so here, I'm giving you a little more chance to explain it to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49863	Thank you, fellow Boric. What is important is to note, therefore, and in this procedure itself, there was a situation in which on December 22nd already the interview with the candidates was held where the secretary of state was present, where we had again in the media enquiries about how the procedure was carried out since we had one candidate from HERA, Lahorko Vagman, who was an employee of HERA and the director of the Power Sector, who had more points, such as Lončarević who skipped him on oral conversation and many warn that oral conversation, means when you get very many points only on non-transparent procedures, where it is not clear by which criteria determines who is best already asked, and old member Sonja Tomašić Škevin has also run and received a large number of points, but did not pass the security check, probably because she was the deputy president of the administrative council of Tomiković. If she had a new mandate, 14 years would have been her place, so some are asking whether those mandates are Too long for seven years? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49864	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. .../incomprehensible/... individual debate of the distinguished representative Željko Tušek. The light of the Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49865	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. I won't be able to do the same, because there's no need, we probably can't agree on this together, and we don't have to agree. There were more details from the position of individual fellow MPs who asked me to report in an individual debate, some I wanted and personally answered, I will not answer those personally, especially those I know 15, 20 years in my life, and I know very well and their professional and professional path so they know something about my life and professional path, so they consider themselves competent to talk about this subject, and I, for example, consider myself incompetent to talk about this subject. I'm not talking about the subject, I'm talking about the chairman of the HS Economics Committee, and I'd just like to point out once again what's essentially going on in matter, and I have another little detail, and I'm going to finally look back on one comment from my colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash, the vice president of my board, where I also need to react, so that there's no chance that there's something left in doubt in the air. So I'm stressing, this law was passed in 2012. I guess individuals, I guess, are the parliamentary majority, I guess, the government that wrote that law, knew what it said, I think they probably knew what they were writing. Since 2013 was the first time in the law, in 2012 they passed the law, for the first time in 2013. In that government that brought the i.e. She proposed this law, she was sitting and then the minister, Anka Mrak-Taritash. And probably her political colleagues from her party, etc., sat in the parliamentary majority that acted under that law and made a proposal for a decision to appoint and resolve, for the first time in 2013, the Committee on the Economy of the HS after that, and to this day, in every process of designation and resolution, implements the same procedure, in accordance with the 2012 law and to this day, there was never any criticism and controversy, which does not mean that it cannot be opened. In fact, it's a little hypocritical if it's what people who created this and what practice they've been doing here and created in HS. As president of the Committee on Economy, I acted at a meeting of the Committee on Economy in accordance with the practice that the Croatian Parliament and the Committee on Economy have realised for the past 9 years, only in this way. There is a Legislative Committee that can give a credible interpretation of the law, and there is also an HS that can be proposed to amend and supplement this law and we will discuss it. I would just like to demystify the role of me as chairman of the Committee on Economy and People who are members of that Committee on Economy. I would also like to say, there is a colleague, Brumnic, who is glad to be back here in the assembly, my colleague Brumnić, and my esteemed colleague of the board, Anka Mrak Taritaš, as well as my colleague Pavić, who is here with us because, as we know for a time, he was not even at the board meetings because of the disease, so everyone knows that the president of the Committee on Economy is running a meeting of the Committee on Economy, here I am not talking about himself, but whether the tolerance of the discussion is at the maximum level, whether... is using any harsh words, whether anyone is being discredited I think that is fair and a man who has any value that a member of the Committee on Economy can't say for me as president of the Committee on the Economy and in a way that we as a working body we function. But, you know, naive and foolish say in Zagorje are sometimes your best friends, so in that naiveness sometimes I go with some kind of respect for colleagues who obviously don't respect me for this dose, so then there's one remark, a comment at that meeting of the Committee on Economy where I told my colleague Brumnic, and I told him here I'm here to listen to you consider some kind of my dictatorial move or sign of my intolerance by my colleague Anka Dark Taritash, I have to say it here. It was a dispensation of a collegiate obstacle in a free debate in which my colleague Brumnic knows well that he often violates the rules of discussion, likes to interrupt other controversies in his word, and I tolerate it from the session to the session, noting that the committee is one different working body and that there is still a more free level of discussion and debate on the working body. And some disrespect and non-legality or disrespect from my position certainly exists to anyone on that committee, and members and members of the Committee on Economy know that well. That's what I had to say here in public since that's what got out, and actually with a real session and some of our interpersonal relations at the session itself has absolutely nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49866	The first replica is Honored Representative Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49867	I thank the vice president of HS. Well, here's the esteemed representative, one of his colleagues just told a story about parliamentary deputies, and I'll have the same one. My friend draws cartoons and now a man comes to the doctor says he has no brain, no heart, no soul, and alive he thought of the brushes who attacked Croatia and now 30 years later no one attacked Croatia. My question to you, my colleague, is also astounding to a colleague who is so aggressive in making her views that there is no future for us, that there is no salvation for us, and she has just created this law that we are talking about now and all the blame on this current government, so as to comment on her performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49868	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49869	Thank you, colleagues. Well, here's what you've been commenting on, so dishonestly, it doesn't make any sense to me, but my God, anything is possible in Croatian political parliamentary practice, so it's possible that people forget absolutely everything they've done, how they've done, how they've acted. And it is not even questionable to point out today a possible debate on changes, it is not only controversial if today's parliamentary majority, your colleagues and colleagues and today's government are imputing something that is not adequate to the facts and is not adequate to the truth and where it is actually being manipulated with truth and fact, which I find somewhat incorrect. But there's no one to do what they're told.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49870	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49871	A respected colleague in this government is not imputable, this government has shown complete incompetence with this which has not been able to comply with the deadlines in this law. But what I want to point out, on the board, I asked that what you didn't put to the vote, to call all the candidates, you didn't put it to the vote because at that point you didn't have a majority on the board, and it's absolutely right for both the board and the HS and it says in the law, it's the list of all the candidates ranked as it was ranked by the ministry, and it's all the subject of your insubordination of this law because it's written in the law and you're aware of it and you just had to respect it. HS may not discuss something and only vote, and may conduct a debate. What I asked the board to conduct a debate on the candidate's score and then to refer the proposal to HS, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49872	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49873	Okay, what you said is like that, you're so debated and that's a fact. The difference between where HS appoints someone or where HS chooses is really a fundamental difference in procedure and you know it well. I don't want to defend this law, my colleague Brumnic I don't defend you understand, I'm just telling you about what we were doing then, how we worked, when the law was created and how it was handled. If you think this law should be amended, you can do it, absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49874	Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49875	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Tušek here to correct you, I was present at sessions, though, through the link, I wasn't physically present, but I was over the link and I know what was going on in those sessions. Actually, my replica is about the thesis that's trying to impose here, which is that the law isn't right. That's not true. So at the meeting of the board of colleagues, Brumnic said the law is not respected. The fact that the previous composition of the Economic Committee did not respect this law does not prevent us from respecting it. If it says in the inside that the selection process begins in a way that the ministry calls for a tender and collects bids, and then the rest is resolved by the Parliament, then it is up to us to discuss it on the Committee on the Economy and to make a proposal to the Parliament for whom and how it will be voted. So the law is good, but it's not respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49876	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49877	And I don't know what to do, I mean, we're spinning around in circles, but slowly all together about it all together. You know exactly what I was going to say in the context of your presence at the session, my God, we live in the same town, we're almost neighbors, so I'm glad that everything is okay and that you are now physically with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49878	Following is the last replica, representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49879	Well, I don't know, it's really amazing to me that you're commenting this way on the issues of the MPs, that you're objecting to someone because there hasn't been enough meetings of the Committee on the Economy, that you and your colleagues are objecting because you're getting into it, so as if we didn't all see your embarrassing conversation, what would you be, but we're putting it aside. This isn't about changing the law at all, I wasn't in the majority that you call the law, but this isn't about changing the law, it's about the tenth time we've been law-abiding. So it's been established, and they've even accepted it from your side to break the law because there's no breach of procedures, because the dates are being broken. So if the 22.4. decision was made to replace those present and appoint a new member, then more than 6 months is the HERE Administrative Council in the gray zone. And now how many times do we have to say it? For the purposes of this [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49880	Dear colleagues, Peovic, on the fact that he has not been named, resolved and appointed a member of the HERE Management Council within the legal period, I can only say that this is a mistake. Yes, and I agree with you here, and that's what the proposing representatives said. I didn't say a word about it, I didn't defend it, I didn't know what. The truth and God is not about the pre-inclusive period, so the government does not lose its right to act unless it has appointed it within the legal framework, but that does not mean that it is good. I didn't say that you understand. And what you said about your colleague Pavić, you really didn't understand the context I was talking about, and you don't know that we're really colleagues with Pavić and I from the same town. I, I didn't say that he wasn't at the sessions but that I was glad as a man that he was physically with us, and at both meetings of the board the past he was present through a video link and participated actively in these discussions. I just said it, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49881	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49882	So in 238, disdaining MPs and MPs, you said you weren't defending the law. When you went out after the speaker as president of the Committee on Economy I quote, it's a settled practice that's in the spirit of interpreting the law, if it's not the defense of the law, then I don't know what it is. So that's your word. It is an established practice only where there is no practice that could be called legislative or legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49883	This was a pure replica, I give you a warning, it's your second warning. Next is an individual debate by distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49884	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I will begin first with perhaps words that should be spoken by the present secretary, which is that some of the claims made here regarding the illegal decisions allegedly made in HERI because the law says that some decisions, that decisions should be voted on by most of the members of the Board of Directors. Just because one member was not present doesn't mean that they weren't voted by most of the board members because if we have 5 members of the board, if 3 voted for it, then those decisions are legal and we need to make it right and we need to make it clear so that Mr. Secretary, you're right. I think that's true, I think you're right. So we have to make this clear, so that it doesn't, that this doesn't turn out to be some kind of illegal decision-making that can be made after that, I don't know what business to make and I don't know what to do. What I'm sorry, I'm sorry, is that at this committee session we actually drew attention to the fact that the law was not respected and the thesis turned out to be wrong. We disagree, the law is good, we think it's good, but we have to respect it. We also said if something isn't right right now, if we're not sure, let's check it out on the Legislative Committee and then give a proposal afterwards. However, it was not respected either, it was not accepted as such, and it went with the proposal that came before the assembly, unfortunately it is actually a proposal from one person who should be a member of the Governing Council. Is it true that the colleague is currently in conflict of interest we don't know, I haven't checked it, but if our fellow MPs claim it, I don't think we have any reason not to accept this as a fact and as a truth. What bothers me, I'm bothered by some more and some come forward and some attitudes that aren't really good for this assembly. If the law has been broken before, it doesn't mean we have to break it, too. Let's do what was done before wrong, let's make it right. We must obey the laws, we make them, and if we will not obey them, and who will obey them. If we will not draw attention to the fact that the law is not respected, who will draw attention to it. So it's up to us to correct these mistakes and go the right way. Now obviously we can't go back, the procedure is in motion, the proposals are there, and I don't think we can make it right anymore unless we object to the Legislative Committee, and then this is a different decision to make, but I don't think it's convenient for now. I'm sorry that it's different from what I was actually discussing when I came to the assembly thinking about how it was going to work, what we're going to do, how we're going to communicate, because when we were here, I turned my attention that there was no point in talking about what was before because talking about the future meant talking about laws that would be respected in the future. Unfortunately, here is our late colleague, Mr. Tudjman's measured and moderate parliamentary representative, who confirmed my thesis and said that we should discuss committees more, that we should be more specific on committees, so if we need meetings and two days on the board, and here we will only have exceptional discussions at our plenary sessions. That's how it's supposed to work. The profession to be in the first place, and then we come here with concrete suggestions. I'm sorry that this happened again in our session, I'm sorry that we're going to have to vote in the way we're going to have to vote, we're going to come to a vote with the front, some belief that something's not right. Whether or not we're going to attend the vote at all, that's questionable, but this really doesn't make sense. Such mistakes must be corrected at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49885	We have two, one replica. The first replica of the esteemed representative, Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49886	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, here I was somehow invited to come forward and replicate to you because you made a proposal here that the Committee on Legislative Law should give its opinion on this situation. I must tell you, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, that the Institute of authentic interpretation of the law does not foresee that we as the Committee are interpreting any provision of the law to be applied. This is not the point of this institute, and in this situation, the Committee has absolutely no way of interpreting it, because the provisions of the law here are completely clear to us, and we do not have what we do through this institute to give an interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49887	Well, I'm glad you said the provisions of the law were clear, so I'm asking you why we don't respect them. If you can answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49888	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49889	Dear colleague, I would not agree with you that nothing can be done anymore, can be done, after this debate, can be withdrawn from the vote, will implement that procedure because the first part of the procedure has been carried out, will pass through the Committee, will pass through the Parliament and after most will vote, will vote, but by respecting the provisions of the law. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49890	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49891	I agree with you, I said that since I know how most of it works and I know what's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-28-0.u49892	Thank you. With this.../incomprehensible... we exhausted the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're going to take a stand, as announced on behalf of the representatives' clubs. I thank the Secretary of State.
