ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u42794	We're going to the ninth debate, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, dear colleague Ante Prkacin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u42795	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the catchy theme. Every year at the end of 4, early 5. i.e. when the anniversary of the military-redarative flash is marked, both the dreary and the dreary Jasenovac from somewhere flashy and the HOS greeting "For home ready" and the problem related to the HOS. This year, he wasn't as tough, not as explosive as he was last year, but the problem of smoldering, a little worse and he'll burn until the case is resolved properly, until he's taken seriously, and we, or I'm an authentic Hos's man who's been through everything, from the commanders of the water and the captain of the war department, and in front of the Homeland Movement Club, suggested a prescription and a way to solve this problem, did we say and agreed that no one disputed the contribution of the Hos to the Homeland War, that no one disputed the chivalrous behaviour of the Homeland War, the most powerful army behind which was not a single war crime and we abused the prisoners, we had no need to avenge the enemy because we were on the battlefield of the herbs. So that's what this is about. I said last time, that from the case of two Hos's, two authentic Hos's bring out our vision of the problem. One time, 16-year-old, had just over 16 years of age, Darko Peranovic, who only joined the HOS because he didn't have enough years to join the Croatian Army, he had no idea about "home ready" or anything else, even threatened to kill his mother if she pulled him out of the unit. And he says this, I am two wounded fellows in one diversional action on Kostreš in the Bosnian Ship, one of them was a state-run hockey team on the ledge Krešimir Pavicevic Pavo, the other was Pejo Breštavić his peer who was not 18 years old, I pulled them out badly, I released Pavu immediately because I saw him dying in my arms, and Peju managed to get away with it, unfortunately we didn't save his life on a great ship's surgery and she couldn't help him, so I watched the blood slip through their emblem "For Home Ready". I also had a captured comrade in Popovo Polje who unfortunately had no chance to kill himself because he agreed to be in the action who was wounded killing himself, he was badly wounded, passed out, Serbs took him away and several more Croatian soldiers. These were normally harassed and tortured, and the Hos for Home-ready were in six gunshot wounds a day pouring salt, etc., so it would be Darko and he says, I have nothing to do with World War II, but it's a holy greeting to me and I'll never get rid of it. Marco Skejo, the legendary commander of the 9th Battalion, says like this, commander, that's what he calls me, I have to tell him, when I told Marco the heads of state that I was 35 when I went to war, I didn't put my left shoe on my right foot, I know exactly why I put it on. So that's our point of view, if the problem of Hos is in World War II, then it's finally time to solve this Second World Work, not as three liars solve it, but as God commands. I was talking about the 27th day last time, so-called On the day of the uprising in Serbia, did I tell you that two Catholic priests were killed, I didn't mention the third, did I say that Juraj Lordnetić was roasted at the grill, I said that there were only ten natives, a large national uprising against fascists, ten natives that were scattered very quickly by local rebels, did I say I didn't really know, did I mention the signing of a shameful agreement from Otric and Benkovec, did I say, and I did, that it was only 19th of the same year that the first bullet that the Serb rebels fired on Italian occupiers and fascists. I'll tell you next, time goes by as if this watch is in a special hurry when I get here. Looking at statistics and seeing the number of people killed in Yugoslavia for World War II, Yugoslavia first compares itself with Bulgaria. Bulgaria was 20 million, Yugoslav 18 million, Bulgarians were killed in the war by 20,000, Yugoslav million and 10, 20 or 50 thousand. Furthermore, 10, 15 or 20 Serbs, Croats and others died in the war, where dear Comrade Tito was involved, there were mass massacres, there was a brother-killing war. I'm afraid I don't have time again. I'll finish Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u42796	Thank you very much. We are now going to the 8th debate, respected colleague Rada Boric on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u42917	My colleagues and colleagues. When the Government and the premiums presented to us with their mercy information on the conclusion of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for 2021-2026, I found not a single word of equality in the search engine, not even a word of women, although it was not only included in our documents, such as the Constitution and other laws and the Law on Gender Equality, but was one of the EU's conditions for writing national recovery plans and resilience. It is not necessary to interfere with the mind, so I will repeat the fact that more women live in Croatia than men, are better educated but are less paid, are at greater risk of poverty, etc., but participate in the way they know and can participate in their abilities. And the government knows all this because now in this 1165-page mastodon document, in the opening work and admits, it even adds in particular that the pandemic COVID-19 deepened the gap between men and women and that violence against women has increased. They tell us that all programmes will take into account the respect of the Law on Gender Equality and the provisions of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. Although we haven't had a national gender equality policy in six years, and we've heard recently that national policy will turn into a national gender equality plan and that it will also be brought by the government and that this House won't even have to discuss it unless we get a document here through the government's mercy again. This also forgets that denial, annulment of the own parliamentary Committee on Gender Equality, one of the first tasks of which is just colliding or caring, not to say, and supervision of the implementation of gender equality, so that's what colleagues could do here and figure out why we haven't had that document in six years. So let's get back to the NPO. From the text it is visible, from the complete text of 1165 pages, that gender equality is i.e. gender equality policies, that are literally glued to certain parts. Under the heading gender equality and equal opportunities. So, and they're very contradictory, here's one example that colleague Branka Stipic, a journalist, pointed out. The work on the digital transformation of society and public administration writes where, when applicable, gender equality and equal opportunities will be promoted and the possibility of employment, social protection, education or access to public services will be taken into account, regardless of gender, age, sexual orientation, religion, disability, ethnic origin. It is interesting that when selecting members of supervisory boards in companies of special interest for Croatia, read: public enterprises or companies listed on stock exchanges, all persons who meet the conditions will have equal choices. Is it, then, when it is applicable? Which means when applicable and where it is not applicable if the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, from the Constitution further and so far, all citizens are guaranteed equal access, and education and employment, and health and public services. In theory, therefore, anyone qualified can become a member of a supervisory board, why when it is applicable? In practice, of course, it is well known that it implies a qualification for a position or a job. In this document it is in some way, this document is a public recognition that so far has not been what theories or laws say, but because of the billions of euros we intend to get or should get if we have sent a valid document, things should change for men and women, i.e. We should have equal rights. We remind you, the document is called the National Recovery and Resistance Plan from 2021 to 2026, not from 821 to 826.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u42990	The sixth debate of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, respected colleague Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u42991	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, a thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture was held on the current state of affairs at the University of Zagreb. I can say freely, a session at which a new bottom has been reached in the rule of the rector Boras and a new bottom for the entire university, our largest and oldest university that should be an example for everyone else. The meeting was called, of course, by the Rector of Damir Boras University and by the President of the University Council of Mr Luka Burilović, but did not respond to the session. Minister Radovan Fuchs, State Secretary, President of the Great Council of the Science and Higher Education Union, Vesnica Garasic, members of the council of the University of Milena Žic Fuchs and Josko Klisovic, along with outside board members, responded. So, to repeat, the Parliamentary Committee on Science convenes a thematic session on the situation at the University of Zagreb. That fact alone would be enough to shake the seat or the chair of the rector Boras. The meeting is called upon by the Rector and the President of the University Council to present their views on the situation at the university, on numerous illegalities, violations of statutes, and lately on sexual harassment. And what happens? The rector doesn't come to the session. He refuses to answer HS's call, not only him but also the president of the University Council, the bodies that should monitor the work of the university, the bodies that should oversee the legality of the work of Mr Luka Burilovic, the president, can freely say the hated HGK, their representative in that section, so a few hours before the beginning of the session says there are other obligations, he also refuses to respond to the HS's call. I'd say there's no further. The ultimate scandal disrespecting the institutions of this state, the haughtiness of the rectors and presidents who are probably sitting somewhere today talking, and what they can do to us, there's nothing you can do to us. So, what are we even doing here, the representative body of the people, the people's representatives, the legislative body? So, which may be the reason, except I don't know about disease prevention or any other similar reason, that anyone doesn't respond to HS's call, especially when it's such an important topic on the wallpaper. If we were living in any civilised country where democratic institutions perform their duties and have some weight, the Rector Boras and Mr Burilovic would have resigned yesterday, not only yesterday, but long before perhaps, when the vaccination was over the line, or perhaps when it was employed in the Dictionary through a measure without the ministry's approval. So we need an academic community, a university and the administration of our largest university, which will pave the way for Croatia as a modern European developed country where science, knowledge, responsibility and work will be appreciated, if the leaders of the academic institution do not respect and practice these values themselves, how can we expect them to create an institution that will nurture and promote these values in society? I call on the Rector Boras to come to the first next session of the Assembly Committee, explain his behaviour, and answer all the questions raised in this session to the Parliament and to the general public. If he disobeys and I call upon him, I call on him to step down from his post because he does not respect the institutions of this country. There can't be a state in the state, there can't be a single institution that can work counter-law, no matter how autonomous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43067	3rd debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43068	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is a shameless robbery of Croatian peoples in Croatia every day. I repeat, there is a shameless robbery of the Croatian people. This time it's by the banking sector, or by the banks. A few decades ago, it was most normal that when you go home from work, the first month or the tenth month, depending on when you get paid, you go with that envelope full of money or half full, depending on, or half empty, depending on what job you do. After that, it was normal for you to receive your salary or pension in a savings book. And now it's normal for you to get your income, your salary, or your pension at your current expense. And now we come up with a problem that is extremely obvious, and no one reacts to it. Keeping a current account, including a jury account, is not free of charge. If you open a jury account or a current account in any bank, you'll have to pay a dozen kunas a month for that. If you still want to use something that has become normal today, and of course, Internet banking, or pay mobile bills, you will also probably pay 20 kuna a month. But that's not the end of it. For every transaction you make through a bank that you give your money to each month, you will pay 2 to 4 kuna per transaction. And it's not the end either, but a month ago all banks or a large majority of banks in Croatia, the most important banks introduced the charge for raising money from POS devices, 2, 3, 5 and more kunas. In other words, you can't come to your money for free anymore than to raise your money, you have to pay. And it doesn't matter what your money has on it and what it can handle and what it can invest all that time. Now, why is that? The poor banks, you know, made almost 54% of the turnover in last 2020, so they earned net profits of only 2.7 billion kuna. Only 2.7 billion kunas or 2,700 million kunas, and it's obviously not enough for them, so the poor banks were supposed to raise these benefits to the pensioners, to the people who work, to take another 40, 50 kunas a month, depending on who, maybe more, which is a lot. But that's not the end of it either. Banks are in Croatia, regardless of one extra profit, are more and more prone to people's layoffs. Now I'm going to set a very nice example here, and it's about my Sibenik. Sibenik, unlike many cities, had its own home bank recently, was called the Adriatic Bank of Sibenik. That bank is gone. The bank today accepted, vacuumed, the Croatian Post Bank. Someone will say and this was a Croatian bank and this is owned by Croatia. Great. Nice to meet you, too. However, I am not pleased that there are over a hundred workers in Sibenik today in the Adriatic Bank of Sibenik, which 11 offices are closed because we forgot that the bank was designed and built as one service for the citizens and today there is no service. Today thousands of pensioners, but when I say thousands, I don't mean figuratively, but it's real, when the first and second in a month, they're waiting in front of the H.P.B. in Sibenik in endless lines to raise their money, the H.P.B. wanted to save, so she fired a hundred workers, she shut down 11 businesses. Well, in order for someone to get their money, they have to pay first, and the other one has to wait for hours and hours. I've been losing all morning to get my money. With the fact that I have to point out here that the biggest bank robbery was the one in the '90s, when that famous privatisation happened, when we gave almost all the banks to foreigners.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43150	We are now moving to the 7th debate, the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43151	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Despite the lack of labour in health care and social care that is particularly evident at this time of the pandemic, many young people who have been educated to work in these restaurants have been waiting for the first job in the profession for years. The problem is, most of the time, I can't get a traineeship. Only after the traineeship has been carried out, the passing of a professional examination and obtaining the authorisation for independent work and licences can they enter the labour market. These are health first-graders and masters and secondary health care guidelines, physiotherapy, radiology, sanitary engineering, medical-laboratory diagnostics, primacy, dental pharmaceutical technicians, health-laboratory technicians. For years, there has been a problem with too few traineeships and too many potential candidates. Only in the autumn of 2020 were quotas adopted for the health sector for 2020 and they amounted to 170 traineeships at the country-wide level, totalling all of the above-mentioned professions. Representatives of these young people, who are called trainees in suspense, came to me for help on 19.10.1920, but on 3.11.2020, I asked the current minister, Beros, to take them in for an interview, which was realized on 16.11.2020. And the problem seemed to be solved because the minister promised 2000 traineeships for 2021 and another hundred seats in late 2020 through the Ministry of Education. The latter was not realized because the authorities failed to perform the task. It was then confirmed from the Ministry of Health at the beginning of this year that all healthcare institutions would collect data as much as any institution would seek traineeships and which, depending on the needs. But what has been resolved so far? The traineeship competition has indeed opened, however, in breach of the actual number of people to be included. According to HZZ data on 31.12.2020, there were 3782 unemployed persons of medical professions, of which there was no working experience, so people waiting for traineeship 1149. On the 28th of this year, 3742 were unemployed, out of which there was no work experience in 1072. Among them are 372 sisters, middle and upper without work experience, 55. And you know how many places are scheduled for them in a total quota of 2,000 seats? 675 traineeships. How is it possible for such a small need so many traineeships, while for some occupations there is an insufficient number of traineeships? Did the ministry respect the needs of their medical institutions? The traineeship for nurses was abolished in 2013 when and for doctors, pharmacists, dentists, primates and biochemists, which means that new generations are not required to do traineeships, but other medical professions have to do so, and the current allocation of quotas for them has no place. The interns in suspense of all things have again addressed the Ministry of Health, the media, and the attorney general has responded, and these days we are back in touch. What are the proposals for a solution? Excess quotas that cannot be filled should be allocated to other medical professions. The second part of the problem in finding a traineeship is the way health institutions choose candidates. According to Minister Rajko Ostojić's letter of 11 April 2013, and this same letter was lifted on 26.07.2019 and there is no regulation that would clearly regulate the choice of candidates, and very often it happens that some people are looking for a traineeship of 2, 3 years or more, and some find an internship just a few months after graduation. The Ministry shall, in agreement with the Employment Office, adopt a regulation under which health institutions would be obliged to take candidates according to certain criteria, such as the date, or age of graduation, the average rating, the length of education. So we'd all get a chance to do internships within the year after schooling. If something urgent does not change, the only solution to these healthcare professionals without experience can be seen in the abolition of the traineeship, as it has been in all other European countries for years. Personally, I will continue to insist that the traineeship problem be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43244	Let's move on, now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club and esteemed counterpart Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43245	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, that would be good or extend the time. [[Intruder President: We will now further slow it down when HDZ goes.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Not long ago, a church dignitary in Croatia said that let us guard ourselves against false prophets who are calling on the people, and they never got the trust from that nation. These are how he continues the wicked prophets who spread the defetism, spread his downheartedness, and verify any success that is happening in our country. Among such wicked prophets and false prophets would be our team from Most and Nikola Grmoy. I understand their frustration and the burden of my smallness when in three, four months over a hundred times he mentioned me in this assembly because they rightly detected that I was responsible for their political defeats in southern Croatia and in Metkovic and in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where they started. 2013 As young perspective politicians, they gained confidence in Metkovic but lost him even faster. The gold Bridge in Metkovic and Dubrovnik-Neretva County fell, and because of this frustration that their fellow citizens recognized very quickly as false and evil prophets, they lost the election in Metkovic 2017 as Mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva County in the same way as his friend Petrov will lose these elections in Dubrovnik-Neretva County on 16 May. To accuse me of a state of justice in the Croatian judiciary is a thought spoken several times here in HS. Nor am I a lawyer, nor am I a judge, and for 37 years in the Croatian judiciary, the Croatian judiciary judges are staffing their colleagues. Not to have any influence but, in fact, by leading the argument and contrast, Most has just had two mandates to edit the Croatian judiciary, twice this Parliament has given support to a government whose minister of justice came from the Mosto's ranks. And what happened? They proved unsuccessful that they do not know and cannot deal with the responsibility of the government's behaviour, primarily the executive authorities in Croatia. They showed this at local level in Metkovic, it was shown at the county level when they could not gain confidence, and this was first shown in two mandates by the two governments of the Republic of Croatia in 2015 and those after the parliamentary elections in 2015 and 2016. Trust is not obtained by lies, diphasms, insults, and slanders, and trust is obtained by constant persistent, constant commitment to the well-being of those who have chosen you, who in you recognize the advocates of the end where you come from, and not by false defamations and slanders to accuse others and blame others for their own failure. This is the basic characteristic of losers, political dwarfs who see their greatness only among themselves, and the people have never given them such support, nor will they give them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43343	Honorable MPs, esteemed MPs good morning. Before we move on to the club stand, let me determine that it is in accordance with Article. In the agenda of the 7th session, the 125th century of the Third Rules of Procedure of the HS included the point of the proposal to launch the issue of trust of William Beros, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, submitted by 41 MPs and the representative of HS. We are now moving on to the presentation of the position, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Bridge and the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43344	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We read that the government intends to introduce a union tax as a concession to trade unions in order to carry out an extension of working life. In a country where they are imposed too high for services provided by Croatian citizens, in a country where neither the judiciary nor the public administration works, nor the health care government would like to impose on everyone the obligation to pay a trade union tax on their own, regardless of whether they are a member or not. What about the right to free association? The unions are needed, but we certainly don't need a hack to be paid by everyone, including those who don't want to be members of the union. That's what we have in HGK and HOK and Most has shown how he feels about such mandatory memberships. Our representative, Zvonimir Troscott, wrote laws asking for the abolition of mandatory membership fees, but rejected by Plenkovic-Pupovac-Hrebac most. What the leaders of the union, which are HGK and HOK, and what we politicians have done for workers, entrepreneurs and craftsmen, show the numbers of people who have left Croatia. These are your results, dear union leaders, these are your results from HGK and HOK, these are your results from the government, these are our results from our colleagues from the opposition. You'll tell us we're not in power, we're in opposition. And I could get out if we were only 12 hands in government for six months and if we tried to change things and that's why they had to get us out of the government, but that would be just excuses, and they're no use to anyone. And the people must take responsibility because they choose the same because they are being bribed because they are being discouraged instead of constantly changing politicians to make them at least a little better. We are champions of Europe by the perception of corruption, our judges associate with the defendants, a man without power and influence cannot come to justice, we are forced to kill entrepreneurs and craftsmen and no one is guilty. And the people keep their mouths shut and do not rise up. I will not be silent, I will not stop warning about the situation in the Croatian society and the justice system that was excavated by most of Vladimir Seks, Branko Bačić and Miroslav Šeparovic, three godmothers, three triumphs. The same Shacks in the latest act highlighted me as the only opposition representative who pushes the public the thesis that he is the personification of all evil in the Croatian judiciary. He's so sick of the bridge and I personally that he put me in a triumvirate that the president Milanovic and his adviser Jovanovic make up for me according to Seks. He says the three of us are triumvirs of negligible misery and that it is not thought of by the academic community, judges, state lawyers, law professors and even by you MPs in HS. Since it's obvious that Vlado is in some state of delusion, I have a need to face him with the reality he's clearly running away from. Vladimir, the culprit for the situation in the Croatian judiciary, is considered by many and many different beliefs that do not bind much, except that in their own skin they have convinced themselves that you and your godfathers have led us to leave the country because of the injustice and the disastrous situation in the judiciary. You three are triumvirs who made a pact because of your personal interests and thus caused enormous damage to this country. You're trying to hide behind the story of handing over Perkovic and Mustac, but that can't erase the fact that you yourself were the operational link between UDBA and codenamed Columbo. The documents about your dishonest role came out after the Bridge opened archives that your full Plenkovic and his party closed quickly afterwards. Like I said, we're all responsible, but we're not all responsible, and most importantly, we're not all the same. Therefore, peoples wake up and punish those who have networked Croatia with corruption, and the greatest punishment for them is the loss of their positions, influence, power and power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43345	Thank you. We are going to the fifth debate on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club will speak to a respected colleague, Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43437	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here, more than a year has passed since the pandemic and one of the many changes, or news, is work from home, to minimise contact between employees and our fellow citizens as much as possible. The possibility of working from home is unfortunately not sufficiently well regulated by the applicable Labour Act, which is mentioned only in the meantime through the institution of the isolated place of work. So in practice there were all kinds of situations and experiences of employees, but also employers with the application of a new model of work from home which the state strongly advocated as one of the most important epidemiological measures. The impressions and experiences of work from home are different, of course there are both positive and negative and doubtless many more debates about the future. Part of the people who have the conditions certainly want to work from home either constantly or combined so that one part works from home and one part from work. These employees should be allowed to do their job even after the pandemic is completed if they want to and if the scale of the nature of the work they do continues to be one flexible way to do their job or combine it because, namely, if we promote ourselves as a country desirable for digital nomads or foreign citizens who are allowed to work remotely practically with the whole world, then we should also legally regulate and enable our people, our workers to work in such a way. However, it should also be taken into account that work from home raises a number of issues and may potentially have some negative consequences that need to be highlighted. For example, it can lead to discrimination between employees based on their assets. If workers cannot afford suitable space in an apartment or in a house where they should concentrate in peace and do their job, then a question of quality means for the operation of the computer, cameras, adequate programs, fast Internet, quality phone line. All of these listed in the office workers are provided on equal terms, and with work at home unfortunately this is not the case. We have a situation that some employers have abolished the costs of transport and a warm meal, while most of them have not compensated the cost of working from home and the use of private resources. Also, a part of workers especially in a multi-member family do not have the ability to perform their work effectively from home due to inadequate housing, especially when the same room serves to live, work and learn more persons at the same time. There are therefore a number of open issues and problems that arise and do work from home and therefore the incomprehensible slowness of the government and the resolution ministry in proposing legal solutions that would finally regulate this issue. We now have a situation that for a year many employees have been working in a way that is only partly legally regulated that they are left to themselves and agree with an employer who is often not an agreement, since workers are mostly in a position of subsistence because without a clear legal basis they have no way to fight for their rights. And worst of all, the government has no plan at all to bring that amendment this year, but we only have general announcements for the new Labour Act 2022. By then, more than two years will pass since the start of the pandemic and that speaks enough about the speed with which this government solves the problems of Croatian workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43481	We are going to a second debate, the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformist esteemed counterpart Darko Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43482	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Good morning, everyone. Dear colleagues and colleagues. 26.3.2021.g. Dr. S.H.I.E.L.D. Andrija Printar opened a tender for the election of a new director half a year earlier whose mandate starts only in September because Director Zvonimir Shostar is going to retire. The founder of the facility is the City of Zagreb. 6.4.2021.g. President of the URIH Administrative Council Mirka Jozic has opened a tender for the director of the institution whose term of office is four years, the founder is the same City of Zagreb. 11.4.2021.g. Public tender for director of DV "Poletac" Gornja Dubrava, founder of the City of Zagreb, has been opened. 14.4.2021. The administrative board of the public institution Maksimir has opened a tender for the director for the term of office of 4 years, the founder is also the City of Zagreb. The Centre for Rehabilitation Silver competition, competition for Director of the Theatre of Comedy, and I further quote, are just some of the competitions conducted by the city administration with the acting mayor of the City of Zagreb Jelena Pavičević Vukičević, who is promoted as bold and his own, and apparently only sits boldly, modus operands of the staffing party 365 Milan Bandić before the local elections. All seen, actually. While the call for tenders is a little less than a month before the elections, for the city stadium, mostly cheap pulsism or tender for renting sports buildings owned by the City of Zagreb, favouring structures, in the past elections, tendering for the directors of certain city institutions is a serious influence on the management processes that should be taken over in a month's time by the new city administration. In the past two months before the elections, tenders for the closest participants Jelena Pavicevic Vukicevic are being opened intensively to allow them 4 years of continuity in power. Four years, so you're still trying to control the personnel policy in the city. Jelena Pavicevic Vukicevic publicly shows that apart from the parole, she has not strayed far from the city's current management. Moreover, in this way he is setting people up for a new mayor who will be forced to work with them, and he will not be able to choose them himself, which is extremely unacceptable. I remind you that at the session of the City of Zagreb Assembly, a proposal has been accepted that there is no undefined employment in Zagreb until the election, but only too much needed for certain, everyone responsible should act so before the elections. Unfortunately, we don't see any responsibility here for the city or for the citizens. Unfortunately, since this proposal, it seems that only a dead letter remains on paper, to which the mayor's office has little or little to do with the practice of the city administration's work so far holds little or almost nothing. Such competitions affect future staffing in city institutions that often lead to excessive employment and millions of costs that all citizens of the City of Zagreb eventually have to pay. Such behaviour is not foreseen by the legal framework on the work of local self-government and this is certainly something that needs to be foreseen in the future legislative solution. I find it unacceptable for the mayor or chief of staff to elect the director of city institutions for four years outside his office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43485	The fourth debate, an independent representative, respected Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u43486	Here's something I'd like to say about these negotiations between the government and the union, but I'm going to try to say that from the perspective of workers, not just employers. I would remind you that the government withdrew after a very sharp reaction at the beginning of the crown crisis of the European Union Confederation, which sent a sharp letter to A. Plenkovic, who began to virtually derivate workers' rights, all the rights of the Labour Act at the beginning of the corona of the crisis. The Corona crisis was a good reason to fully derivate workers' rights, fortunately, the European Union Confederation means something, so it sent a sharp note, which is why these negotiations are "endowed" but today, so we get a straw, right, this information about these negotiations between the government and the union, and now we see that it's trying again to end the aspect of the Labour Act by making it easier to lay off workers, to allow for the reduction of the severance and the reduction of cancellation deadlines in the country in which the worker works by 37% of European wages in which 14% of the working population is evicted, in which we have one of the lowest jobs in Europe. Easier layoffs, reduced severances and cancellations. The second thing we learn from these negotiations is that wages will increase, but how are we going to raise wages? So A. Plenkovic will increase the salaries of colleagues and colleagues, one statistical manipulation so that workers will be paid without taxation, right, to include in the average salary information. So it's not true that the workers' salary is going to rise, so it's going to look nice in the statistics, it's going to seem that the average wages are growing, but not tax fees, are not part of the pay. What we're not going to hear about as a proposal is probably not going to come out as a proposal for a union-government discussion is a very good methodology for an independent union, a small one, meaning a new union and RIS, the Regional Industrial Union, from Varazdin, who in their research came up with a methodology for calculating minimum dignity pay and you won't believe, so how much of this salary, although I have repeatedly warned here that if, if some calculation of average, meaning the need, for those basic needs of the computer, was much higher than our minimum wage, they came to a calculation of 10 428 kuna. Of course, we can't say "E, tomorrow we're going to raise the salary minimally, everything will be fine," but surely we should and should force the government to insist in these negotiations that this amount is taken as a reference, especially because it is independent, new union and RIS, they put emphasis on corporate responsibility for decent wages, or large rich brands that especially in Eastern Europe, come because of the low labour price and practically exploit our labour force and then come where they are more favourable. So, big fashion companies have a responsibility for decent wages, they organise production of cheap labour countries, they collect enormous profits, even at the time of the current pandemic, they use the situation in which poor countries of Europe are located, which are exclusively like our case, they mean to compete with the cheap labour price, means not by progress in technological progress, by restoring industry, by green re-industry, but by just doing so, we will base our competitiveness on the cheap labour price, and they are destroying workers' rights. Well, the first and the basic thing would be to use your unions to therefore advocate this minimum dignity salary, especially in those corporations where it's quite possible. This is therefore being violated, these salaries are certainly in breach of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the minimum wage reminding it, the full-time salary, and then, if we take into account, we need to know that the violation of the Constitution and the social character of minimum wage, that should certainly change. But I'm afraid that won't be the case. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47495	This brings us to the end of free speech, so now we move to the agenda as announced, first item: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Affairs Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 134 The applicant is the Government under Article 85. The Constitution and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204 of the emergency procedure, the first and second readings are combined, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would now ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of the proposed bill, with us is the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47496	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed MPs and MPs, therefore, are before you the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act. The law itself was adopted in 2003 in the Croatian Parliament, and subsequent amendments and additions to this law were solely to comply with the EU acquis. After that, it was two times the harmonisation of this law with EU directives. The one that may be more striking in the context of today's changes has been complemented by Regulation 1889 of 2005 where the current law contains a provision requiring a written form of declaration of cash transfer and when natural persons enter the EU or exit the EU via the EU or amounting to a cash value of EUR 10,000 or a higher. This further amended the legal framework of 2015 and 2018, respectively, was adopted by a completely new Regulation under the number 2018/1672 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and the above mentioned Regulation (EU) No 1889 of the European Parliament and of the Council was put out of force. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in the Member States from 3 June of this year, meaning for a little more than a month. This means that Member States must lay down by national law the competent authorities authorised to carry out the control of cross-border cash transfer, the measures for temporary retention of cash and sanctions applicable to non-compliance with the obligation to report transfers above the established threshold for registration. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the regulation in its definitions contains concepts that are to be highlighted in terms of application by our citizens in this law, we went further into one or two articles to better understand these provisions, and above all in the context of the concept of cash which, when spoken in the jargon, people usually think that it is only money in the pocket, but as far as the regulation itself is concerned, and then this law of cash includes other equivalent forms, and these are instruments on the bringer, for example. possible shares on the bearer, cards with pre-paid funds, coins with a share of gold in at least 90%, gold bars or gold lumps with a share of at least 99.5% of gold, of course I made the money myself. Therefore, the term is precise to prevent the circumvention of the cash transfer obligation through assets equivalent to almost money in terms of liquidity and anonymity. So far, the current cash law included cash, coins and bills and instruments on the bearer. In addition, these amendments are introduced in two more cases where that application is to be made and to the request of an authorised authority, that is, in this law, by the Customs Administration or by a Regulation, if the Government adopts a regulation, border police may also be authorised if the security reasons allow it or if this is due to the economic nature of the proceedings. So, the first one remains this provision that we have and now related to this transfer, or the entry and amount from the EU via the Republic of Croatia, of a provision of EUR 10,000 or more, and so on is introduced. cash transfer accompanied by cash transfer control in postal packages,.../incomprehensible/... consignments, luggage without escort or as cargo in containers. So the cash transfer without an escort is defined within the norm itself, and the third is so-called. the national cash control where, according to the model in Italy, Austria, Germany, Belgium, the Danish Republic introduces and commits, at the request of the authorised authority, the notification of the cash transfer within the borders of individual EU countries, or in this case, if someone enters, to leave the Republic of Croatia at the request of the customs office of persons, if there is cash above the amount prescribed, it is 10,000 and more so to report it. So it's not a self-initiative obligation, it's a request. As regards how to implement the cash application obligation under this final draft of the law under national cash control, it is the following. So this first one we mentioned that is now in force remains in force and I will repeat. So these for self-initiative applications when you come to the border line, you are obliged to report to a customs officer if you enter or exit from the Republic of Croatia an amount of EUR 10,000 or greater, and in the context of the concept of cash, we therefore mean all of what we have initially said are instruments on the bearer, cards that are possibly prepaid by the amount paid in advance or the share of gold, or coins with a share of 90 % gold. This second part, which we have mentioned, that, at the request of the competent authority, the consignors and cash recipients of an amount of 10,000 or more which is imported into or exported from the Union through the Republic of Croatia in postal packages, courier shipments, unaccompanied luggage or as a load in containers are therefore subject to the application of an authorised person of the Customs Administration for a prescribed form and that application shall be submitted within 30 days of the request of the customs officer. Therefore, this is a new obligation under the regulation designed to enable the customs authorities of the Member States to apply discretion from the legal and natural persons of the consignor or consignor and their representative to file a transfer application. And this last one we mentioned within the EU borders, so the same obligation to apply at the request of the competent authority. Physical persons carrying cash with them of a amount of EUR 10,000 or more shall be obliged to report that amount at the request of an authorised person of the Customs Administration. With regard to the conduct of the competent authorities, the law provides for the authority of the Customs Administration to temporarily retain cash in respect of which it is not met, the obligation to report cash in addition, the obligation to report cash without escort as well as in the case of any transfer of cash if there are indications that cash is linked to criminal activity irrespective of the amount and whether it is cash accompanied or not. The temporary retention may be 30 days with the possibility of extending to the maximum 90 days in cases of difficulties in obtaining information. If there is any indication that the cash is related to criminal activity, the Customs Administration will, without delay, notify the competent national attorney's office of the case, give him information and circumstances as to how the case occurred, and the State's attorney will take measures, of course, in accordance with the applicable Criminal Procedure Act. In this respect, the Customs Administration shall be competent to record, exchange and store data on the transfer of cash. And ultimately related to the violation of orders. The bill introduces effective and proportionate fines for breach of the obligation to report cash. The fines represent the only sanctions, i.e. for the future, will no longer be possible for this, the money that is taken away and not permanently taken away from criminal activities, but these offences will only apply to the imposition of a criminal measure. With regard to the infringement itself, a qualified form of offence has also been introduced to ensure the proportionality of sanctioning by a greater range of fines depending on the value of the cash transfers subject to the infringement. Therefore, the limit for the application of a qualified infringement is EUR 100,000. The bill first introduces a limit on the amount of fines imposed, which must not exceed 60% of the amount of undeclared cash, which is in line with the Court of Justice's rulings, and since that obligation, otherwise in the EU the judgments of the European Court of Justice are now being incorporated into the regulation itself, so that after the court's proceedings, the judicial authorities have had guidelines to determine the level of penalties. Here's what's briefly related to these changes that aren't usually big. I stress the regulation itself has been in force since 3 June of this year, and the Croatian Parliament has been given the opportunity to follow the urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47497	Thank you, too. We've got two replicas, first up, buddy Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47498	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State even though this is a directive, although it is technically natural for us to adopt what Croatian citizens really need to know what the European market means. You can take 10,000 euros or more in Croatia today and go to Portugal, go to Stockholm and no one can ask you, nor who should stop you and ask you where you get 10,000 EUR. But take EUR 10,000, go to Mostar, someone will stop you, and someone will ask you where you get the EUR 10,000, if you have confirmation, if you don't have confirmation they'll take that money away from you. Why does this matter? Because the relationship of Croats in BiH with Croatia is close. We have 1,000 km of borders, I know that this may be a relationship in Germany or Belgium that does not have such boundaries, but this is important clear that today we are also communicating for Croatian citizens how they will act to get as much quality information as possible today in this debate on what awaits them by passing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47499	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47500	Thank you very much. And thank you very much for these suggestions, what, of course, and in practice so far, has been shown to be precisely this, let's say, the lack of understanding of meeting its obligations by both the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and other citizens who have not entered the EU, and thus the EU, and who have carried cash in the amount of EUR 10,000 or more, or the equivalent of that cash. What the Ministry of Finance intends or is already doing is precisely that information through customs officials and by putting at the customs crossing notices regarding such an obligation to make it clear to each individual what its obligation is. Of course, customs officials and through their performance will encourage them to remember those obligations, not hunting on the wrong foot, as they say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47501	And another replica of my colleague Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47502	Thank you very much. The secretary of state is clear that this law is, in fact, in its practical dimension, the implementation of the directive and I think it is quite clear that the EU, and thus Croatia as its component, is entitled and should be protected from some illegalities related to the transfer of cash from the EU. I don't have any objections to a law that's quite technical, but there's one thing about temporary cash retention, I'm clear on this 4th of these 3 measures, if something is not formally fulfilled. But there's one item there that says if there's any indication that cash is related to the initiation of a crime, that word "signs" is actually very broad and it can experience a very extensive interpretation of it tomorrow, so I think it's good for some internal acts to explain it, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47503	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47504	Thank you very much. I may not have mentioned now, the framework for the action prescribed by the EU directives in the context of, say, national risk analyses formed and based on the EU-wide level, where these indications are clearly set for the handling of all customs officers at EU level. Immediately as the law says, a customs officer is obliged to inform a state attorney who, of course, will, if he has such elements, act. It is clear that individual persons who are in that national... the risks you already recognize by name and your last name will immediately be suspicious and such things are thought of such cases, here's just one of the illustrations, one of the examples that was, already has a year relatively enough, 4 million 742 310 euros a man has entered into the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 4 million 742 000 euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47505	Thank you very much. You can go to the scene now, since there's no more replicas. So I'm calling the committee's reporters to take the floor? [[Intruding Zrinašić: Thank you.]] No, then I open the debate, the first in line is the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47506	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable state secretary with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here we are, as the secretary of state has said, the proposal in the emergency procedure of the amending and supplementing law on foreign exchange and, of course, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we support this proposal. This new regulation, which will apply from 3 June 2021, thus Regulation 2018/1672, brings several news, namely that Member States are required to establish measures to liquefy the physical cross-border transfer of cash to the Union or from the Union, in all forms of physical transfer, either through a registration system, means the obligation of self-initiative application or a system of publication, hence the obligation to register at the request of the competent authorities. This Regulation shall, in addition to the obligations so far, introduce and control the notification and control of the physical transfer of cash by the natural person or in the luggage or in the vehicle of that person, the introduction and control of cash transfer in postal packages, courier shipments, unaccompanied luggage or as a burden in containers where the cash transfer is unaccompanied. This Regulation and the law lays down the competent authorities for the implementation of the Regulation, so that the control of the movement of cash is of course within the jurisdiction of the customs administration and of the border police, when determined by the specific regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The obligation to report cash shall be prescribed and the obligation to report cash under the regulation and the obligation to report cash under national controls. In this respect, natural persons with a cash amount of EUR 10 000 or more shall be obliged to report that amount to the authorised person of the customs administration or border police when they enter or exit the Union via the Republic of Croatia on a prescribed form which may be submitted or sent by electronic means. This obligation has so far been prescribed by the previous Regulation and the Foreign Exchange Act which is in force. Senders and cash recipients of a amount of EUR 10 000 or more, which is imported into or exported from the Union through the Republic of Croatia, in postal packages, courier shipments, unaccompanied luggage or as a load in containers, shall, at the request of the authorised customs administration, submit an application to the prescribed form within 30 days of the request. This is a new obligation, under the regulation, to allow the customs authorities of the Member States to apply discretion and to require legal and natural persons, consignors, recipients or their representatives to file a transfer application. So, in this way, natural persons carrying cash with them at 10,000 euros and above are obliged to report it at the request of an authorised person. In the draft law, all concepts relating to the control of cross-border cash transfer, have the same meaning as the same concepts in Regulation 2018/1672 and the Regulation introduced a broader concept of cash definition, which, apart from cash, includes transferable instruments to the bearer, which are cards with pre-paid funds, goods used as extremely liquid reserve values, these are coins with a share of at least 90% of gold and levers such as grains or lumps with a share of gold of at least 99.5% and in order to prevent criminals from using cash equivalent funds, avoid the prescribed obligation to report cash transfers. Effective and proportionate fines which are the only sanctions for the implementation of the cash declaration obligation are also imposed, thus limiting the amount of fines to which the amount of fines imposed must be lower than 60% of the amount of undeclared cash, given the verdict in the case imposed by the EU court. If there is any indication that cash is related to criminal activity, the customs administration will, without delay, notify the competent state attorney and the attorney will take measures and actions prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Act. It is hereby authorised to register and exchange and store data on the transfer of cash and is proposed in this way, in fact, to adopt an emergency procedure law, and therefore to ensure the implementation of the EU Regulation as of 3 June 2021, and here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47507	We're going to a second debate, a SDP counseling club, a respected colleague, Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47508	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here, as has already been said, we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act with the final draft of the law, following an urgent procedure for harmonising with the Directive on the physical transfer of cash to the Union and from the Union, so that it is important, both in Croatia, in other words, and in Croatia, when it is transposed. And here it's important to clarify maybe some misunderstandings, if citizens have general, so I'm saying, this simply doesn't apply here to the monetary union, right? So it is important that Croatian citizens can, when they go to the EU, that it is unrelated whether that Member State is monetary union or not, that it can carry cash, as I was saying at the beginning, means here it is a broader notion of the Union, meaning from 28 Member States, this is 7, in which, in fact, when Croatian citizens want to buy or carry cash, people like to pay cash, that they can carry that money within the EU borders, what I was saying, and even to Stockholm, right? No one should actually ask him, no one will even stop him, where he got that part of the money. Or they will, I don't know, so I'm asking a question, right? Whether within the EU it can move freely with cash and make it clear to the citizens when it moves with that money. The other thing that we were actually saying here is that it's not.../incomprehensible... that citizens simply know that it's not forbidden to carry money. So it's very clear that citizens know, it's not forbidden to carry money from the Union or into the Union, but that they have to report it. That's what matters to the citizens, so they have to report it, not to be banned, to create in public some kind of.../incomprehensible/... here, I can no longer transfer 10 thousand euros to some, I don't know, BiH, but to report it, and that when you report, or cross the border, someone will probably look for you and then some documents from where you get that money, right? So probably, most likely some kind of a copy, a bank statement that that money is in your name, that you raised it in a bank, etc. If someone's running a cash transaction, right? So it's important here to say that you can still do that, yeah, you just have to sign up. In time, it is necessary to report this money that is being transferred, and in this context perhaps more closely linked through some hodogram, that is what I was actually asking, and I believe that this and the customs administration will write very closely, in some communication with citizens, that it is likely on the pages of the customs administration, the Ministry of Finance, I don't know, here is probably and the police will control, not only Carina, but also on their own, so it also means on their websites, that simply citizens know when they use money, or carry money from Croatia, and here they primarily think of BiH because Croatia has 1,000 km of borders from BiH, very close relations. Let us not forget that many Croatian citizens and BiH come for vacation in Croatia, have real estate in Croatia, buy real estate in Croatia, do various jobs with Croatia, is it, so on. It is simply that in this particular communication between the Croatian authorities and citizens when they transfer this money, whether, to be public, what you have said, transparently, is published on the pages, so that there are no specific questions. Because what the citizens are immediately interested in, does this 10,000 euros mean per person? Because look, sometimes you travel by car, there's two of you, three of you in the car, and now he says, look, three thousand, here's two thousand, now, will this guy in Carina say, well, look, no, no, just a little bit, you're four, that's ten thousand, you understand, there's a lot of situations that you have then, which you need to clarify whether it's from this one who has that money in the car, when they're sitting down four, do they know that those two can split, I don't know, three thousand euros and then transfer it, right? ... Here, at the cigarette, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So there's a lot of questions, there's a lot of questions that actually, tortured by Croatian citizens, they just want to know, that they wouldn't get into some awkward situation, that someone's taking it away from him, so 30 days there's something standing there, so they're actually analyzing what you've actually said, etc. So that's why I'm simply asking that all of those things that the citizens might ask you to publish on the pages and then give some answers, just so the citizens know. Because what you said, here, was the situation that carried 4 million euros, which is impossible, to imagine at all that money being transferred across the border, but here it was,.../incomprehensible/... so when there was 4 million, then you can think how much of these situations are you have 10, 15 thousand euros where you carry across the border. I'm saying, people, someone likes to buy some land, etc., that it wouldn't be created, I don't know, someone comes from tourism, someone makes some revenue from tourism, from Herzegovina, has a house in Dalmatia, deals with tourism, etc., for 10, 15 thousand euros and wants to take this, and yes, he wants to take home. And what's gonna stop him at the border, where'd you get 10 grand, huh? And he says I don't have a bank confirmation. So you have to be there very much, you have to know very clearly what's going on, because I say not only for Dalmatia you have a relationship up in Posavino, etc. So the very public must know if this is not an opportunity in the EU. The EU has no such borders as Croatia, Croatia has the largest border with BiH, the EU's largest border, has the closest relations with these BiH citizens, etc. and therefore this issue is very clear for Croatian citizens and BiH, as well as for Croatia to know such behaviours. I have to admit okay I see an extended definition, I have to admit I don't just know how a pre-paid card to control it? You have a wallet card you wear, I don't know I haven't met with such cards, but how do you control it? I don't know how... you're gonna get your card taken, how it's gonna be controlled that you've paid off certain funds and now you're crossing the border, and now you're gonna be stopped by a customs officer, okay, when he controls physically, when he controls whether you have the money, you open the trunk, etc., but I don't understand how he's gonna control the card, so maybe that's some questions. I'm saying, I don't know about these payments on these cards, but I'm saying these may be all kinds of details that you'd just like to explain to the citizens about such questions. Here today, in our debate, we will have raised such questions so that it simply does not happen here, as you have said, and based on this European Court of Justice, it is prescribed that a limit on a fine which must not be more than 60% to take away his funds. So if you're carrying 10,000 euros by accident, 60% takes it away from you, 6,000 euros if you haven't reported it. ... in court proceedings, yes, yes, okay, but just so the citizens know that no such process happens. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's just that what you said yourself, it's just that maybe out of bad information, people don't generally know, I don't believe that all those who do that you normally have those who do certain things that you said criminally, they probably have some kind of record, but ordinary citizens who just don't look just don't follow all these specific transactions, can explain today that you can carry cash to Sweden, to Stockholm that no one will ask you, and here you go to Mostar that they'll stop you and take it all away from you, you can't really explain to our citizens that it's some kind of a single market. It is for Croatia, but I'm simply saying our kind of historical relations and some kind of life of citizens is one entirely different. So here's how I support the law, it's part of the European acquis, but here's some sort of debate here today that simply in a more completely and more informative way publishes and not just on pages and through some kind of education, not just customs what you said to the police, etc. And citizens to get certain information that it can be translated that it is not a ban, but that there are certain clear procedures, that there are certain patterns, that there are certain documents likely to be bank statements which are other documents that prove this to you a certain part, so that people don't think that it's a... disproportionate property that someone will control you as a disproportionate asset you understand. People will say, look, I'm carrying, so I didn't report, I don't have any information from the bank that's kind of his legacy I don't know from his parents, etc., so that they don't carry any transfer contracts with them, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, you've got some kind of legacy, so it's just that in some kind of technical thing that might seem to us, but life people who live by the border don't complicate life with these directives. So the SDP club will support this part with certainly support to continue to communicate with Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47509	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47511	We are now going to the next point, which is: Final proposal of the Law on the promotion of clean vehicles in road transport, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 121 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the In relation to Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Tomislav Mihotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47512	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the HS, honourable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. In short, I will present to you the Final Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Clean Vehicles in Road Transport. This law provides for the obligation to implement measures to promote the use of clean vehicles in road transport, and which is achieved through public procurement procedures when buying the lease, rental and rental of vehicles with the right of purchase and the conclusion of road transport contracts. This law transposes EU Directive 1161/2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019. amending Directive 33/2009 EC on the promotion of clean and energy efficient vehicles in road transport. The purpose of introducing a sustainable, competitive, secure and decarbonised energy system can be achieved by public procurement promoting clean vehicles carried out by public transport. The new law, unlike the law currently in force, introduces the obligation to report to the European Commission on the minimum public procurement objectives achieved for the share of clean, light and heavy vehicles, which public procurement bonds will have to take into account in all public procurement procedures to be carried out after the 2nd column of 2021. In contrast to the applicable law applicable to public contracting authorities in the case of the purchase of vehicles and carriers carrying out transport as a public service, this final proposal also extends the scope of the law to the use of the vehicle to lease, rent or rent with the right of purchase and to the conclusion of a transport contract. The list of services to which the law applies is better defined, so that it now includes public road transport services, special road transport of passengers, exceptional transport of passengers, as well as special mail and package delivery services in order to avoid imposing an disproportionate burden on public authorities and operators against the obligation to apply the law exempt public procurement of certain vehicles with specific characteristics associated with their operational requirements. These vehicles shall include armored vehicles, emergency vehicles, funeral vehicles, vehicles of category M1 with access to wheelchairs, mobile cranes, vehicles designed and designed primarily for use on construction sites or in quarryes, ports or airports, as well as vehicles specially designed and manufactured or modified to be used by armed forces, civil protection, fire departments, public order maintenance forces and road maintenance vehicles such as snow pickets. The text of this final bill in relation to the draft law which was adopted in the first reading without notice contains only minor nomotechnical amendments. Finally, the adoption of this law and its implementation will contribute to efforts to achieve a low-carbon mobility from the vehicle and to reduce air pollution and noise pollution. Following all the above, I suggest that this law be passed in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47513	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first one's a respected representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47514	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, the directive states that to further promote decarbonisation of transport, improve air quality and maintain equal conditions for different... Member States may decide, in accordance with Union law, to impose similar requirements on private operators and services outside the scope of this Directive, such as taxi companies, car rental companies and transport-sharing companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Have you considered this proposal from the Directive?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47515	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47516	Well, we're thinking about it for sure. Now we've limited one part of the vehicle where it wouldn't be productive, i.e. where it would create significant problems in operation and work, but surely that when conditions are created for what you mentioned, this coverage of the obligation to comply with these provisions will slowly be expanded.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47517	The next replica is respected MP Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47518	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here is today's final proposal, as you have told us, the Law on the Promotion of Clean Vehicles in Road Traffic, by the middle of the century, the emissions of greenhouse gases and pollutants generated by transport must be completely removed and here it is certainly commendable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47519	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47520	Well, thank you. I can only point out the objectives of the Directive. So by 2030, the greenhouse gas emissions should be further reduced by at least 40%. Compared to 1990 levels, that's one part of the answer to this question that you asked, how we're going to go towards those goals. So with new measures during this period, we will go towards establishing these objectives set by the EU Council and the EU by 2030, on the other hand, by 2050. By the half of the century, the pollutants produced by transport must be completely removed, i.e. It should completely stop pollution by the pollutants of this type that the law is talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47521	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then we move on to the debate I am opening and the first to speak on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Mako Kuzmanic. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47522	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, Your Honor. In my first reading, not to repeat myself, I have already referred to this Law, and what I would like to stress now is that the ultimate objective of this Law should be to reduce the emissions of harmful gases and the transition of transport to environmentally acceptable propulsion fuels on our roads, which are primarily electronic, plug-in and battery, hydrogen and natural gas. However, this Law should regulate the concept of a clean traffic zone and define the competent authorities to establish it, which I did not see in the law. Secondly, which is very important, and I mentioned when I first read, it is a lack of the regulation that the minister must bring within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act because it is a problem to implement himself. If we pass some law which, let's be honest, is prescribed from the EU directive which requires us to do so, we will not do any effect unless we have a regulation to ensure its implementation. The third thing we have here, these are real problems in this area, it's the very high price of these vehicles and their commercialization in society. We need to make them available in some way to the general public, which is a long-term process that requires a lot of adjustments and where many challenges await us. For now, these vehicles are only available to people who have a lot of money. We also have a problem with the aspect infrastructure, from the duration of filling such vehicles themselves to the number of chargers. The Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund has been conducting a tender in recent years that encourages the construction of charging facilities and the purchase of electronic vehicles, however, we do not have a legally secured additional source of funding. For now, it is not known whether we are planning to do this from the Multiannual Financial Framework or the Recovery Plan. They're Polish, for example. This was resolved by some 15 limes from the price of a litre of fuel being allocated to a special fund for co-financing of the clean transport project. If we were to switch completely to electric vehicles we should provide a network of 150,000 publicly available chargers, and we must now start planning this because the value of this investment cycle is almost 10 billion kuna. The advantage of sunny areas is a multidimensional effect that we can achieve, especially in Dalmatia and Primorje, where we can also ensure the long-term viability of these filling rooms themselves in time. These are advantages we need to recognize in time, and that's the way we have to go. We must not exclude the experience of the private sector, but this is the technology of the future that the Croatian economy can benefit from. For example. The "Roman Cars" can serve as an example to our entrepreneurs, and I think that the Republic of Croatia, which has a company such as "Rimac Cars", would have to enter this area significantly more ambitious and thoughtful and in some way allow development and other economic operators in their business through new technologies, so I would dare say the technologies of the future even though our administration is quite late even in rewriting these legislations themselves. I have seen that you have not included private carriers here, and I believe that involving private carriers in the green transition process or the EU green plan is crucial because we must allow private carriers to prepare themselves in time for the transformation of their business. Because again, this is a long-term process, and the strategy is not just the passing of laws but its implementation with concrete results. What we're going to encounter is the education of implementing bodies. One crucial fact we must be aware of. Our bodies in charge of public procurement are not assigned to the implementation of green public procurement. You know how many problems we had by crossing the "lowest price criterion" into the "best offer" criterion. Likewise, if we do not carefully develop criteria, we may find those same bodies in violation of the rules of competition or God forbid they are good for someone, which is not a very unknown practice so far. All in all, the SDP Club supports the adoption of this law, and the long-term implementation of a green plan which is this law and an integral part, will practically show its results for 5, 10 or even 20 years, which depends most on us at the moment. So we support this law, but we insist that the regulation on the implementation of the law itself must be passed by the minister within 60 days if it is to be presented to the public. I wish we'd had a chance to read this before on the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee, but here's the Regulation we haven't seen yet, so I hope you'll present it to us soon. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47523	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ljubica Maksimchuk will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47524	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Today, the final proposal of the Law on the promotion of clean vehicles is in road transport. In the first reading, we said, but I will repeat, this draft law transposes the EU Directive 2019/1161 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 and amending Directive 2009/33 of the European Community on the promotion of clean energy and efficient vehicles in road transport. The new Directive removes certain shortcomings in the implementation of the basic Clean Vehicles Directive, its implementation in the legal order of the Member States, as well as the shortcomings in its implementation at national level. The minimum public procurement objectives shall also be established for the share of clean, light and heavy vehicles per Member State through certain time periods if public procurement bonds are to be taken into account in all public procurement procedures to be carried out after 2 August of this year. Climate change and environmental destruction are a threat to Europe and the world. The EU wants to be climaticly neutral by 2050, and in order to achieve this, political obligations must become legal for us. Accordingly, the EU aims to introduce a sustainable, competitive, secure and decarbonised energy system, with the obligation to implement a sustainable, competitive, secure and decarbonised energy system by 2030. additional reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% compared to levels from the 1990s. Only the EU's total greenhouse gas transport sector has a 25% share, out of which 70% of the pollution comes from road traffic. Fighting climate change is an urgent priority. Europeans view climate change as a serious problem and want to see enhanced action. Therefore, the decarbonisation of the transport sector is apparent and will therefore have to be on the path of total removal by the middle of the century of greenhouse gas emissions and pollutants generated by transport. Without delay, the aim is to significantly reduce the emissions of transport pollutants, which are harmful to health and the environment, which can be achieved by measures that encourage the transition to public transport and public procurement promoting clean vehicles. The promotion of clean vehicles should be carried out in parallel with the further development of public transport, as this is a way of reducing the congestion of our roads and, consequently, reducing the emissions of harmful gases and improving air quality. One of the essential components of a sustainable, competitive, safe and decarbonised energy system is the public procurement process that promotes clean vehicles carried out by public transport. This draft law introduces the obligation of the European Commission to report on the minimum public procurement objectives achieved for the share of clean, light and heavy vehicles, extends the scope of the law to Leasing vehicles, rented or leased with the right to purchase, and contracts for certain services instead of just for the purchase of a vehicle. Services covered by a directive such as public and road transport services, special road transport services of passengers, exceptional transport of passengers, as well as special mail and package delivery services, waste collection services, should be those in which vehicles used for the provision of those services, enter into the category of vehicles covered by the Directive in clean vehicles and constitute an important element of this contract. Exceptions from application and to facilitate the provision of certain socio-important services to Member States shall be made possible by exempting from the application of the Directive on the supply of armored vehicles, ambulances, funeral vehicles, vehicles of category M1 with access to wheelchairs, mobile cranes, vehicles designed and constructed primarily for use on construction sites or quarryes, ports, airports, and vehicles specially constructed, manufactured or adapted to use armed forces, civil protection, fire departments and public order and peace maintenance forces. In addition, the amended Clean Vehicles Directive should not apply to vehicles specially designed and designed to carry out works that are not suitable for the transport of passengers and goods, for road maintenance vehicles such as snow poles. It should be pointed out that between the first and second readings there were no additional amendments, the bill provided for funds in the state budget and the following, the HDZ Representatives' Club will accept this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47525	Now we move on to an individual debate and the first one will speak to the respected representative of Vesna Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47526	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. When we talk about the final proposal of the Law on the promotion of clean vehicles in road transport, electric vehicles are immediately thought of. By 2040, the sale of electric vehicles is projected to represent 58% of the sales of new vehicles compared to the current 2.7%. Some predict that by the middle of the next decade due to battery price decline, electric vehicles could approach internal combustion engine models with their total price. Electric vehicles throughout their lifetime could be shown by a cheaper choice for users, especially for those who travel many miles and those expensive urban rides. The electric car is cost-effective after 150,000 km, in any case, more time must be spent in it than an average domestic driver who travels an average of 13 000 km or 35 km per year. This will certainly need to be monitored by developing a monitoring infrastructure that in many countries as well as ours does not allow the supply of large numbers of electric vehicles. The development and production of batteries is also a strategic imperative in Europe in the context of the transition to clean energy. We certainly see in the Croatian car company Rimac cars that must be a Croatian partner in such EU projects because, according to estimates of the World Economic Forum, 19 times more batteries should be produced globally to speed up the transition to a low-carbon economy. It is also necessary to provide more fast chargers and good Internet applications that car owners can find free chargers and not to circle from the charge room to the charge room so that our ones who are not busy. The charge price should be acceptable because it is not an option to charge an electric car on a home socket or in a garage because it takes hours. It is necessary to consider reducing electricity prices and increasing the share of renewables. And the most important thing that electric car owners care about is the greater range of electric vehicles. We immediately wonder, for example, whether we will be able to get out of Zagreb without charging batteries to Zadar, Sibenik and Dalmatia or Osijek or Vukovar. Although the following infrastructure is still underdeveloped in electric vehicles, why are electric vehicles a good option? Because they do not have emissions of harmful gases in the atmosphere, their use reduces the consumption of non-renewable fossil energy sources, reduces maintenance costs and greater transport security, lower tax burdens, reduces environmental congestion by noise and contributes to socially responsible business or sustainable development. What's the situation with the rolling stock in the Republic of Croatia? In Croatia, more than 2 million road vehicles have been registered today, of which almost 1.5 million passenger cars and average private vehicles in the Republic of Croatia annually emits 3 tonnes of CO2 annually, hybrid vehicles emit 1 tonne of CO2 annually, while electric vehicles do not emit CO2 in the atmosphere at all. Croatian rolling stock is still on average more than 12.5 years old, in 2019 we imported 82 399 used vehicles of an average age of 7.5 years. The promotion plus data for 2019 show that only 23% of new registered vehicles were purchased by citizens while 77% bought by companies. The current excise system in Croatia goes hand in hand to import used vehicles, used vehicles are not held in the official network as new but in many cases are held on black, through well-known mechanics. The promotion of clean vehicles should be carried out in comparison with further development of public transport, as this is a way of reducing traffic congestion and, consequently, reducing emissions and improving and air quality. The government should take measures to avoid compliance costs with this Directive, resulting in higher prices for public transport consumers because it is known that citizens of less purchasing power and more women than men, especially in urban transport, public transport and this is also a question of gender equality. Finally, without delay, the emissions of air pollutants resulting from transport, which are harmful to health and the environment, should be significantly reduced. This can be achieved between other measures that encourage the transition to public transport and green public procurement, promoting clean vehicles with zero emissions and vehicles with extremely low emissions, in order to phase out new cars with CO2 emissions to 2035. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47527	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Pera Cosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47528	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Honorable state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The proposed law will help address the issue of climate change, which is one of today's major global problems, and in order to achieve the EU's objectives and by 2050, to become an economy with a zero net rate of greenhouse gas emissions, we need to bring our legislation into line and implement this law is one of the important links in the chain to achieve the objectives of the European Green Plan. We know that only the transport sector is responsible for almost a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions, and this is mostly related to road transport, and therefore this bill is aimed at reducing air pollutant emissions from transport, which are harmful to health and the environment. The proposed law refers to public procurement obligations and promotes the purchase of clean vehicles, and is also an area of its application to vehicle leases, rentals or leases with the right to purchases and contracts for certain services. The Directive on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport has set minimum public procurement targets for the share of clean vehicles for road transport for different members and sets different targets in accordance with their economic capacity and exposure to pollution. So the share of clean vehicles in the total number of light vehicles covered by contracts by the end of 2030 for Croatia is 18.7%, share for trucks 6%, and for buses 38%. Although these goals for Croatia seem ambitious to us, I must say, the most expected of developed countries, for example Luxemburg, Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany, their share was 38.5% for clean light vehicles, for trucks 15% and 65% for buses. The beginning of this public procurement is the 2nd Kolovoza 2021, and this is in the current economic situation due to the pandemic a little too short a time limit for the start of the adjustment of most public procurement taxpayers. In particular, this applies to our carriers who, apart from having problems in business due to pandemics, their vehicles are not today in line with these required criteria. The implementation of clean vehicles requires large investments and increased economic activity, but I believe that the achievement of the minimum targets for Croatia will be possible as it relates to the nearly ten-year period. However, decarbonisation of the transport system certainly does not help the fact that our citizens import used cars from other EU countries, the average age of the vehicle in Croatia is 14 years because the increase compared to previous years, and now it is time to specify measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by determining ourselves according to cars on gasoline and on diesel, especially in cities. And therefore, it would be good for some of our city centres to think about a gradual ban on the traffic of older diesel vehicles in those centres, as did European cities such as Stockholm, Rome, London, Paris, where they plan to limit urban traffic exclusively to vehicles that do not release greenhouse gases and thus strengthen clean urban transport, reduce traffic, increase flow through the city centre itself. The placing on the market of clean and energy-efficient vehicles through green public procurement will improve air quality, especially in urban areas, but in order to breathe, we must also encourage citizens to purchase vehicles with smaller pollution emissions, so we must provide for various subsidies in order for these cars to be available to Croatian citizens. Of course, there is also infrastructure that is still insufficient for a large number of such vehicles because polluted air is one of the greatest health risks, and unfortunately Croatia is high on the EU list. I'm optimistic if we're going in the right direction, we've already passed a series of laws that we're trying to cut polluter emissions, three of which are for clean transport, last week we've been discussing the Biofuels Act, we've got a law on the establishment of alternative fuel infrastructure and this one that promotes clean vehicles in road transport. In order to successfully achieve the plan set out in the directive, it is necessary to coordinate the implementation of this package of laws. Promoting clean vehicles in public procurement is one in a series of our obligations to this planet on which we live and its inhabitants, and therefore I will believe and believe as well as all of us in the assembly vote for every law concerning green transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47529	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first representative of Šimičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47530	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor. We must all contribute to the transformation of Croatia into a clean, healthy and desirable place for life. We in this transformation actually have the opportunity to hear that we need over 150,000 chargers to do batteries, we have the opportunity for our industry to do something good, to hire people, but not to import like you said old used cars that will be polluters again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47531	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47532	So I think that now is a new era in transport in general, so traffic is increasing and that communication is increasing, and at the same time it wants to reduce pollution from traffic that is quite large. For example, it is certainly the introduction of these new eras in cars, so cars with internal combustion are slowly going into oblivion, we are going towards cars on electric drive, and it is good that Croatia has also engaged through this Recovery and Resistance plan to subsidize or include such projects concerning new technologies and a green plan of one example is certainly this future battery factory, and here perhaps a car with the Romans. Of course, it is also necessary to encourage all cities and counties and places to approach the construction of infrastructures, and, of course, to subsidize citizens to have these vehicles available to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47533	The next replica of the esteemed MP Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47534	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, you said in your debate that we are high on the list of countries with polluted air, the fight against climate change is an urgent priority, Europeans consider climate change a serious problem and want to see, of course, enhanced action, which is, of course, this law. We know that more economic investment is needed, you said so yourself, but here this law applies to one longer period, by putting clean vehicles on the market, by subsidising, we will improve the quality of air, and of course improve the quality of our fellow citizens' health. And we Brodjans know best what it's like to live in a city of poor air quality, so here's what this law is welcome to do, but there's local and regional self-government that should certainly be included in that part of infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47535	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47536	Well, right, I said we're high on a scale of European states. Unfortunately, the city here is Slavonski Brod from which we come, and you colleagues and I, is known for air pollution and pollution from floating particles and other air pollutants. One of these has also been observed that traffic along with all other pollutions that are slowly being resolved. I think traffic is one, one problem that we will solve more easily, and thus moving transit from the city itself, where we have access to the entrance, means in our county and at Okucan and here 20 kilometers south of our city we will have bridges across the Sava, connecting with highways down to BiH and further towards Croatia, and also in the city itself. Here you have noticed that before the border crossing, so it doesn't work yet, one truck stop, so those trucks waiting at the border won't pollute air as much as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47537	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47538	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, I agree with you that a new age is coming in and that it will be the electric cars that will prevail in some future time. However, somehow I heard that the thesis is getting through that maybe we don't have enough chargers, so I just wanted to react to it. I think that at this point, given the number of electric cars that are in the Republic of Croatia, and even those who are coming, it may not be a representative year because of the covid, but when we take it back, when everything comes back about tourism in normal, that is exactly HEP, and also some local administration leaders have invested in the charge stations and can be seen when driving on our roads that there are new chargers built in all important directions of the Republic of Croatia and I think there are enough of them at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47539	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47540	Thank you very much. Well, here's a respected colleague, of course, that maybe now for this traffic and these electric vehicles that drive our roads, which our citizens have, who show up with our tourists because we're a tourist destination where I say half of our country, to somewhere in the middle of the Adriatic, tourists who are exclusively out of Western Europe are going to take their vehicles, I'm still sure they don't dare go this easily with electric vehicles, but I know that fast plans for all those who are in charge of putting these chargers in this facility in this facility are also of interest that the tourists who come to our ends have electric vehicles and that they can certainly fill those vehicles, not to stay or wait in those big crowds that are usually on weekends, so they'll probably get along somehow, but it's going to be one faster and one drastic pace than they are now in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47541	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Tomislav Mihotic will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47542	Thank you, dear Vice President. Most of the debates went in the direction of alternative fuels. This Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure produced in 2016 was the expert holder of the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels, and this year there will be amendments and additions to that law. So this question of the charge room and everything else that goes along with it will be further resolved, and at this point, it's working on it. For example. On the highways, with the aim of establishing an alternative fuel charging facility every 50 kilometers, the plan and the programme are realised. I therefore propose the adoption of this law following the debate, since it will contribute to reducing CO2 emissions from the vehicle and reducing air pollution and will support decarbonisation of the transport sector. The increase in the number of low- and zero-emission road vehicles will allow for improved air quality in cities and other areas, which is of special importance for the Republic of Croatia as a tourist country. So I suggest that this text be adopted in this form, and the regulation that is inside it is defined as being made by the Ministry of Economy, with the participation and consent of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are going to the public sector because it was the easiest and simplest time to establish these criteria through public procurement, and we will continue to work on the establishment. to meet the objectives and through other measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47543	Stay, stay, please, Secretary of State, because we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47544	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, gradually switching from internal combustion to clean vehicles in road transport will actually have less and less income from that base, so how do you plan to actually patch that hole without going over to the price of tickets in public transport?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47545	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47546	Didn't start the question I heard Incomprehensible/... to clean vehicles, how it will actually be reduced, these tax revenues./... [[Intruder: So by crossing from the vehicle with an internal...]] I'm sure. Well, these are all environmental protection measures, so through other revenues we'll try to make up for what we're about to lose from this part. [[/Intruder: E, how are we going to handle this without increasing the price of train tickets in public transport because it's one of the options, is it?]] And our goal is clear and the aim is to meet the directive and reduce pollution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47547	The next replica of the respected representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47548	Thank you, Vice President. Let me just explain what I wanted to say about the charger's network, my intensity was just to look at a step ahead and see if maybe the experience of Poland that went the farthest since building the infrastructure itself costs 10 billion kuna. This investment cycle will take some time, and if we don't find additional funds in advance, I don't know how we're gonna do it. The Poles settled this by investing 15 limes from a litre of fuel in a fund for a special fund for eco-acceptable vehicles and thus already made a plan. When I say 10 billion kuna, then I think it's 150 thousand chargers as long as we're going to need them eventually if our entire fleet would one day move on to environmentally acceptable vehicles. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47549	The Registrar of State [[Intruder: I expect a rulebook, only to deliver it to us on the board.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47550	Okay, this was just thinking, so then I don't have an answer. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47551	And the next replica is the esteemed MPs Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47552	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the Environment Fund has provided a 105 million kuna incentive for citizens and legal persons for this year. Of course, it's commendable, but not enough to get rid of these cars that are, of course, older and large contaminants. We know that these vehicles are more expensive and that not every citizen can afford them so easily. But what I'm interested in means 2 million vehicles we have registered in Croatia, about which 1.5 million are personal cars. The average age is about 12 years old, and Cosic has just raised the issue, are we perhaps thinking about introducing a slow ban on these old elevators, cars, as some European countries do?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47553	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47554	Well, in any case, it will go in this direction to reduce the years of car use, and one of these measures is also this Fund's means to stimulate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47555	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Since it's already been a while, we'll take a break and see you again in 11 and 45 minutes. It's 11:00.35. Here's our esteemed colleague and colleagues, we're running out of time, so let's go to the next point, and that's: - Digital Service Tax Bill proposal, first reading, P.Z. No. 105 Proposer: Katarina Peović Proposer of the Law is Katarina Peović based on art. 85. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:47 A.M.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The government delivered an opinion, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the motionary like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47558	... So I'm going to try to briefly present a law that has more than 40 pages, it's a very large law, but before I present what it's about, first of all, to express my surprise, really, although a lot has been heard from this government and we don't have to be too surprised by much anymore, but I have to admit that the explanation that we got for the rejection of this law is pretty amazing, so we know and we've already learned a lot of it in the autocolonial nature of our government, but this is the highlight of that rule of "cruise the horse where your boss tells you," so this explanation came up on a bill that would therefore come up with a tax on the biggest digital services of Google, Amazon, Facebook, etc., brought to the state budget about about 150 million kn a year, the answer to expect US sanctions if we introduce such a law. [[Specially enabled.]] Some new cold war due to 150 million kn that we will tax the richest, I'm afraid that such an argument is truly incredible and we will see why it means this argument and this principle of "binding the horse where your boss tells you" is even in this case inconsistencies because here even the boss says that this is okay law, that this law that should be passed, means from the very heart comes this law, from the European Commission and this law and that law and that tax will be introduced sooner or later but means our government does not fully agree to this tax, this tax will undoubtedly be introduced, only to note that if even here it can be used by such a real faceless argument, that we have to fear the sanctions of the United States because of this tax solution, nor can it be expected, because here is the Budden administration announcing this tax, means an agreement with the European Commission on this tax, it is clear that all the digital companies are responsible for the digital tax regimes, and the digitality of the tax regimes that even the tax regimes which are now being taken into the tax and the tax of the tax of the tax of the money. The Workers' Front therefore adopted this proposal of the Digital Service Tax Act on 18 January, it is short of a tax rate of 7% which would allow for a charge of the State's register. Tax administration, and we have to point out that we should just collect the data, we've been looking for some data that came in, they haven't exactly satisfied us with their answer, but it is predicted that the income of the state budget due to the introduction of this tax could increase by about 150 million kn per year. Due to the expected average growth in the income of potential taxpayers, means these digital giants as well as the expected growth in the number of taxpayers, so other companies would enter, say Zoom is now somewhere on the border, it is expected that due to the increase in income and he will enter the tax taxpayer definition, it can be assumed... that the annual income from this product would only grow from year to year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You will also see that the government has given reason, that this tax will be introduced very soon, that it is waiting for the OECD decision, which is supposed to come in June, but only in 2023, if we consider how many countries have introduced this tax, and I will tax them, it is entirely illogical that we are waiting for this tax until 2023, so we are losing around 300 million kuna of tax in the register. The tax therefore introduces taxation of digital corporations, which in recent decades record high income growth and profits from other companies, while paying relatively small taxes both in Croatia and elsewhere in the world. Tax would be charged by those who really have and can pay from digital giants, some of them are Google, Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Airbnb, Booking, Microsoft, Netflix, E-bay, Salesforce, Trip Advisor, Twitter, Ali Baba,... , Yahoo, Expedia,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Snapchat, the tax would be charged from those with an annual income of over 750m euros, means 5.6 billion kn globally and annual income from taxable digital services with a source in Croatia of more than 1.1 million kn, means 1.1 million kn tax relief. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, the question means how many digital companies with consolidated annual revenues over 750m euros in Croatia generate income, that's what we asked the tax and our Minister Marić and we didn't get the answer, which is really fascinating because the Slovenians who were looking for the same data got the answer to that question, there are 17 companies in Slovenia who were located as those who would have fallen under this tax. So the question of how much they make on the basis of their income, and that's what we're going to explain. Of what? It means digital services, advertising, mediating and selling user data. So these are the revenues they make through digital taxes. It's through digital services. Minister Maric's reply that the data cannot be collected individually, I must accept that it is strange. In total, we have received the answer that income according to the currently available data is cumulatively equivalent to 981 million kuna, but for some reason we cannot obtain individually, because of the obligation to keep tax secrets, it is not possible to provide data on individual taxpayers. I say, in Slovenia, that information is familiar. I have also said this, the proposed law is based on the EU Commission's initial proposal for a proposal for a Council Directive on a common digital tax system, which would tax revenue from providing certain digital services. It would be a law, meaning at EU level that would introduce a tax on digital services. In March 2019, however, the proposal was rejected. He was rejected mostly by low-tax countries, like Ireland. After the rejection, therefore, of the proposal, many Member States have decided to introduce that tax on digital services at national level. Taxes were introduced in France, Italy, Austria, Great Britain, while still part of the EU, Poland, Hungary, while tax introduction is planned in Belgium, Latvia, Spain, Norway, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. In Croatia alone, the tax cannot be introduced due to the threat of US sanctions. The main objective of taxation of digital companies is to provide additional budgetary resources, which can be used to strengthen public telecommunications infrastructure, I will remind you that we have one of the slowest internets in Europe, and can be used, therefore, or to improve public health, education, social services and other pillars of the social state in the crown crisis, and it is very important to fill the budget. What are digital services, to explain briefly. So the law proposes introducing a tax on three types of digital services, I said briefly, now I'm going to explain a little bit wider. So these are services consisting of putting on a digital advertising interface aimed at users of this interface. It's a Facebook, right, classic Google example. Services, secondly, services consisting of putting a multilateral digital interface at the disposal of users who can be called intervention services in which users are able to provide two things, or finding other users and their interaction or supply of goods or services directly to users, say Amazon is a good example. And the third type of digital services is the transfer of collected data on users that have been achieved by these users' activities on digital interfaces, and that of the famous collection of data on users on Facebook and Google and the sale of these data. So if they're already selling us data, if they're already bombarding us with commercials, then they should pay taxes for that digital service, from which they generate profits. How do we know that digital services came from Croatia? The revenues from digital services are believed to come from Croatia when the user of the device is located in Croatia when using tax services. The location of the device is defined by an IP address, address of an Internet protocol or other geolocation methods, if this method is more precise. Why is it necessary to introduce this tax? In addition, it is necessary to adapt tax legislation to social conditions because of the limitations of the tax regulation of legal persons in Croatia and the EU in the field of digital services. The basic principles of taxation, meaning businesses in EU countries, are still based on business models from the beginning of the 20th century. According to these models, profits are taxed where value is generated but related to physical presence in a particular country. So if the company is registered in America or has a branch in Ireland, and with us, earning income and profit, it won't be taxed. Such models do not take into account the global reach of digital activities where the physical presence in the form of a business unit is no longer necessary for the provision of digital services. Large digital companies such as Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Google, use outdated legal standards to avoid paying taxes. Although operating in all EU Member States, profits are mainly reported only in Member States with low tax rates such as Ireland or Luxembourg and thus avoid paying taxes in countries where income and profits are generated. According to the survey launched by the members of the TAX Special Committee 3.../incomprehensible/... The European Parliament for Financial Crime and Tax evasion from 2018, Apple, one of the largest and most profitable companies in the world, probably only paid 0.7% of the EU profit tax in 2015 to 2017 is 0.7% of the tax. This multinational corporation works in Croatia, but most often do not have business units here and therefore do not belong to the bonds of profit tax. Law on profit tax in the 2nd century 2 prescribe that the income of non-residents achieved in the business unit of this non-resident or through the non-resident business unit has its source in Croatia, if the business unit is located in Croatia. So these companies do not have registered business units in Croatia and are not subject to the Tax on Profit. Therefore, the current tax regime in Croatia is inappropriate for taxing companies offering digital services, especially from the point of view of determining the source of taxable income. Simplifyingly, Facebook earns from advertising in Croatia and selling information about users from Croatia, but the tax on these digital services is not paid in Croatia because the tax on users who, the income tax in Croatia is paid only if the company or its branch is located in Croatia, is it? Digital corporations in Croatia pay only the amount of value added tax, VAT under the Value Added Tax Act, art. 26 in the subject of taxation are also included certain digital services, I will not tax them now, so the delivery of web seats, the adoption of seats, etc., whose place, as a rule, is related to the place. So it's a permanent establishment or recipient residence. So that doesn't include these taxes on digital services. Second, why this tax should be introduced, there is a discrepancy between the average profit tax rate of digital companies on the one hand and those of traditional companies on the other hand and the European Commission pointed out the discrepancy. According to the European Commission’s 2018 assessment In the EU, digital companies are taxed at an average rate of 9.5%, and traditional companies at 23% means such a disproportionateity between traditional companies and digital companies. The aim of the bill is to introduce a more uniform taxation of traditional entrepreneurs who produce physically tangible products and services as well as digital companies providing immaterial digital services. Also under three, it is important to point out for the law it is not intended to tax the revenues of small and developmental digital companies but the revenues of large digital companies, only digital companies with annual incomes exceeding 5.6 billion kuna globally are classified as taxable persons. The aim is therefore that those who are the richest bear part of the burden of crisis, so this proposal meets the principle of fair taxation. The principle of fair taxation requires that taxation be in line with the economic power of the taxpayer according to Article. 51. The Constitution means that higher income taxpayers must contribute proportionally to higher taxes. So I repeat, this proposal introduces taxation of digital giants with annual incomes above 5.6 billion kuna, which really ensures that companies with the largest economic power in the world pay more taxes. It should be said that the global crisis of capitalism is related to the outbreak of the covid-19 epidemic has had no effect on these digital corporations at all, and I must really say again the shameful argument of the government that it says it will wait for the OECD's conclusion and that it understands the delaying of the adoption of a global or at the European level of a complete proposal because it is in the course of a covid-19 crisis. Well precisely because the covid-19 crisis is under way we need to encourage such solutions and such proposals, this crisis must not be broken on the backs of the poorest but the richest ones need to take over the most burdens. It should therefore also be noted that the global crisis of capitalism associated with the outbreak of this epidemic did not affect digital corporations at all, rather, measures limiting movement and association have led to an extraordinary increase in the use and sale of digital services. As a result, the leading digital companies peaked in the second quarter of 2020. They recorded a huge growth in income compared to the second quarter of 2019. Amazon recorded a 40% growth in income in the second quarter of 2020. and the second and more, even more impressive was the growth of some other digital companies compared to the second quarter of 2019. Amazon and Facebook gains rose 100% in the second quarter of 2020. While Netflix's profits are even 166% in that period, we're talking about such incomes and profits. Furthermore, the legislative proposal stems from the principle of the social state. 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall include the right to social security. 57. In order to ensure a satisfactory level of social security, the Constitution needs to provide new sources of tax revenue to finance the social state, which this law certainly allows. This also relates to the principle of adapting the law to social conditions, and it is certainly an epidemic of COvid-19 which has thrown the whole world into a completely new and unpredictable situation with regard to the consequences of society and individual and their value system justifies the introduction of such a tax. In light of this uncertainty, the legislator has not only the right but also the duty to adapt the legislation to the social conditions and to change it if it is dictated by changed social relations, and this definitely falls under that definition. For the end, I'll just say it means I'll briefly try to sum up where this proposal comes from. means at international level, the OECD Economic Co-operation and Development Organization, in its report of 2015 publication, has recognised that digitalisation and some new business models pose a problem in international taxation as part of the OECD-G20 project on the prevention of erosion. It was 2015, so we're in 2021, and we're planning to introduce a tax in 2023, totally unacceptable. Following the publication of this report, the G20 finance ministers expressed support for OECD's work on digitalisation taxation, the OECD produced a provisional report on the taxation of the digital economy presented to G20 finance ministers in March 2018. The interim report addresses the need to adapt the international tax system to digitisation of the economy at EU level. These issues were recorded in the Commission's communication entitled "A fair and effective EU taxation system for the Digital Single Market" adopted in 2017. When it comes to Member States, several finance ministers have signed a joint political statement supporting effective solutions under EU law based on the concept of the introduction of so-called. the tax in order to equalise the applicable market that digital companies have achieved in Europe. Following this, the conclusions of the European Council were adopted in 2017, which highlighted the need for an effective and fair taxation system for the appropriate digital age, etc., in order to achieve a proposal for a Directive 2018 on the introduction of taxes and then implementation in different countries. So here we are talking about a series of legislative proposals that will be applied sooner or later and there is no reason not to take these legal proposals as a basis and apply them now. So in the fifth month of 2021, and not to wait for 2023, absolutely this threat of sanctions to the American people, I think it's funny that we don't really need to discuss it, but delaying the application of this law reminds us, of course, of a number of other proposals of opposition that came from here to say it's an excellent proposal, but we're going to wait a few more months or years, and then it turns out that the most important thing is who makes the proposal, and not what that proposal hopes for and what that proposal is going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47559	Thank you. We have two replicas, it's the first, please stay, the first respected representative of Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, colleague Peovic, for the presentation in which you said something that I would like you to perhaps give us a little bit more details about the time we have. So you said that digital giants, unlike many traditional companies, were often sold as a consequence of this pandemic, that digital giants actually had gains that were huge. Would you, uh, do you have any information that you could tell us here to hear? So what's the order of the size of these profits, which are companies, and maybe that gives us some clearer picture of this subject that we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47561	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47562	Thanks for asking. So I've already listed all those companies, say Amazon, which in the second quarter of 2020 had 40% increase in revenue or Netflix 166%, Facebook 100%, etc., but I'll give you more of that data, so not only can we expect to grow the number of those who will fall under this proposal but also their incomes will obviously grow. So fast incomes and growth of customers in Croatia are just fascinating. For example, in January 2017 in Croatia there were 390,000 users of Instagram while only a few months after May 2017 there were 730,000. So in 2019 there were 1.1 million on Facebook, 1.5 million Croats had their own facebook profile By 2019, that number increased to 1.9 million. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47563	Thank you, thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47564	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In the bill of law, you have actually applied analogy here as with other countries of Austria, France, etc., according to the total income achieved as globally as to the level of interface itself in the country itself. However, this rate of 7% is among the largest that you have proposed except Hungary and we believe that it is necessary to pre-arrange, in fact, the Tax on Profits Act which really defines the headquarters or the business unit in order to then apply taxation for this type of service because this is how the total income is taxed, not some company's. So we need to sort each other out before to then create conditions for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47565	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47566	It is true that we put 7% of the initial proposal that went from the European Commission and that the implementations were about 5%, 3%, let's say Hungary even dropped to 0% at one point we have meanings in different countries of different rates, but it is evident that the rate is likely to be slightly higher. But I have to say as to income or profit, we can't estimate what the profits of a particular company are because they're not registered in Croatia, so that's why it's going to the revenues. And I'm saying to me that the answer was a little weird that we couldn't collect that information because Slovenia got information about one, if we had information cumulatively means that we have information and individually how much income each of these companies have in Croatia, right, and the answer was that because of the business secret, we can't get that information. I have to admit, it's kind of weird. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47567	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zdravko Zrinasic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47568	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, as regards the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the proposed law, it was addressed on 25 February this year. As a matter of fact, what the esteemed representative said, we, or the government, are repeating in their opinion, so I'm just going to briefly not overlap in that part. Therefore, this proposal for a law is based on an initiative, i.e. the European Commission's '18 initial proposal. the year on the Council Directive on the common system of taxes on digital services taxing revenue from the provision of certain digital services. The Council's working bodies have taken a position supporting that initiative by the European Commission in the form of a temporary solution, i.e. the adoption of a global solution to the taxation of the digital economy at OECD and G20 level. Since the start of discussions at EU level, the government has advocated a global solution, as it believes unilateral measures are introducing distortions to the EU market and distorting competition. It was precisely for this reason that it did not start at national level with an initiative or a proposal of the Taxation of Digital Services Act. We've also pointed out this, of course, what the esteemed representative said, and it's no less important. Therefore, due to the high complexity of the problem and the impact of the pandemic of disease progress at international level in line, the work of the OECD and the G20 has slowed down and the deadline for reaching the international consensus since the end of 2020 has been extended by the middle of this year. On 14 January, the European Commission announced this year the initiative of the initial impact assessment for digital imposing, etc. the Roadmap to be drawn up by the Commission's report and followed by public consultations. Following what I said briefly, and considering that the European Commission plans to present a proposal for a digital imposition in June next month, and that it is also expected in June to reach an international consensus on the adoption of a global solution, we believe that at the moment it is not opportunised to take unilateral measures to introduce a national tax on digital services, above all, because tax on such services means a tax on companies that do not have a head office in the Republic of Croatia. And what essentially the whole opposition and the way to control it, above all the level of these services and how much these services are, and how to collect that tax, without having tools, was that the government's view was that it was necessary to make a consensus at EU level, of course with those countries. Following all of the above, the government proposes to HS not to accept the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47569	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47570	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I wonder if there have been consultations with colleagues and colleagues from those EU member states who did not wait for consensus, such as Italy, Spain, and here is Slovenia which is so close to us that its prime minister sometimes represents us on the European Council, do you know what their logic was why not wait for a consensus but go as you say in a unilateral solution? And it seems to me, in fact, that unilateral solutions to some possible consensus are the rule, not the exception, that this is the government's position in the EU is actually an exception, not a rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47571	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47572	Thank you very much. So, as you know, the EU is a Union of countries, the aim of the Union is to have a common market in capital and all other benefits that this Union brings to those same countries. Certain Member States that have launched themselves in this sense would be interesting to look at the successes of these measures and those rules in terms of the collection of income I repeat refer to companies that do not have a head office in that country that introduced that tax, and the determination of that income and the extent of whether it just came from Hungary, Italy, etc., and the proof and tomorrow here I will banalise, sending a solution to someone there in a country that has its head office. What are the reactions? It would be interesting to ask these countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47573	The next is the replica of the respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47574	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Zrinasic. So I'm curious about what's being asked, which means 12 countries if we count the UK, or it's introduced or it's going to introduce that tax. We actually represent a minority who did not introduce that tax, and why did this tax not communicate with what was asked of other countries? And the other thing, you didn't mention in the exhibit here right now what you gave in writing, which is fear of American sanctions. I am really interested in where we are and how we are given such guidance and an indication that sanctions could occur if we introduce taxes that have either been introduced or introduced by many European countries, and what would these sanctions look like in the first place?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47575	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47576	Thank you very much. I would just turn around and say, I'm not so sure that we're a minority within the EU right now, you've listed only a few countries that have introduced and have problems implementing those regulations and those that intend to introduce them, which is how they want to do it. Here, above all, it was done in terms of these types of tax whether they are unwarranted or justified and whether they are discriminatory or not discriminatory, and in the context of determining the real burden on the real services that occur possibly in a particular country. I'll remind you, we have living examples where we've tried and I believe we're doing it relatively well, but only in the context of blocking the IP address and servers when it comes to bookmakers, gambling games that are otherwise banned where companies that don't have a head office in the Republic allow our citizens to log in and without taxes are performed and that activity. We therefore found this measure in the sense of banning the operation of the server and logging into these servers, and it was in no way possible to collect the tax of another country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47577	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformist, respected representative Darko Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47578	Representatives and colleagues. The digital economy opens up a whole new perspective for companies that, if they want to be competitive, see the world as a single market teaching and such a single market in the EU, can represent an unnecessary framework at this point, and innovation represents key criteria in society's overall success. Digitalisation is, in fact, the most important trend of modern economy and market operators in their business if they want to be successful in Croatia and move to the virtual world in the world, and we are particularly facing it now during the covid crisis where significant taxes are recorded by both domestic online companies and shops, which has opened up a whole new kind of business in Croatia as well. And the use of social networks for marketing purposes is a prerequisite for successful business for most companies. In this new light of the adjustment of the legal framework and tax rules, it becomes the main focus of EU legislation, as well as of the whole world. Inside the EU, there has been a huge discrepancy between the place of taxation and the collection of tax revenues and places where digital service users are located, as we have heard. And as part of the Digital Taxation Package, the European Commission has proposed a common system of taxes on digital services that are taxed, revenue from providing certain digital services, and this is the proposed single rate of 3% at EU level, but there have been major disagreements among other countries that rely on large national economies that rely on classical production to have lower levels of taxes such as Sweden, Finland, Ireland. We heard they were against it, and I think it's also a new kind of industry that we could most easily develop if we see the capacity we have. On the one hand, it is undeniable that there are entrepreneurs who are able to outplay existing rules and use technological progress to ultimately pay a minimum tax, that is what the colleague above has cited as an example in Ireland and most often it is about entrepreneurs that we can classify as multinational corporations. At the same time, smaller entrepreneurs spreading to new markets on the other hand cannot normally bear such costs and are often surprised by tax costs. The European Commission has not made a more thorough analysis of who will bear the burden of taxation after the introduction of the tax on digital services. Matija Bauer states that due to the design of the network effects tax itself and the current competitive state of the online platform, a higher burden of taxation will be borne by business customers and end-users in fact. In the analysis it is guided by the general rule that owners, suppliers and buyers will bear a lower tax burden because, as we know, large multinational companies are vulnerable to moving their seats and moving profits. And if taken in the fact that network platforms are offered to micro and small businesses, and to self-employed persons, a cheap and efficient way of advertising is the question of whether the introduction of such a tax will harm small economic operators, EU members such as Croatia. The income tax can also have a negative impact on equal competition depending on the profitability of the company with a lower net profit margin of 5%. If companies which achieve the significant economic presence of a resident of the state with which the Republic of Croatia has concluded a Double Taxation Treaty for the application of the concept of virtual permanent work of a unit is necessary to amend that contract for the reasons that international legal contracts are superior to national legislation. On the other hand, that measure between the international Double Taxation Treaties is a long-term process that requires the mutual will of the parties where it is unlikely that the Republic of Croatia would successfully carry out the process within a short period of time. Amendments to the Double Taxation Treaty must take place as a general consensus of the Member States, the OECD Member States. The IT industry is the only activity alongside the construction sector and retail trade in the Republic of Croatia that has created jobs in the global economic crisis caused by the covid in these years. Information technologies have for years shown a strong trend in growth and resilience despite crises affecting other foreign economies in Croatia. All changes in the economy and society we faced during 2020. They have confirmed that information technology is the key industry of today. 27 billion kuna total income was generated by the Croatian IT industry in 2019, the number of employees in IT industry in 2019 passed 33,000 inhabitants in Croatia in 2019. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The number of IT companies in Croatia reached 5,718 business entities, which is 4.2% of the total number of companies in Croatia. Let me remind you that in 2017 alone there were 3,000 companies and I think 800 companies in Croatia IT businesses, in the business sector. Export of Croatian IT industry in 2019 It exceeded 8 billion kuna and represented 5.3% of the country's total exports. Average net salary in Croatian IT industry in 2019 It was 8631 kuna and was 48% higher than the average net salary in the country's economy. In any case, given Croatia's fiscal situation as a developmental direction, we heard here, an unfavourable Irish model that attracts foreign investment to its tax advantages, of which the most important advantage of the Irish tax system is 12.5%, which is among the smallest in the EU, and a reduction of the base by 25% of the costs invested in research and development, and a wide network of inter-state signed double taxation contracts. Today, Ireland is the second largest exporter of computer programs, almost a third of all personal computers sold in Europe were produced in Ireland, mostly in branches of US IT companies that opened because of these favourable contracts, jobs in Ireland. I'll just remind you that, I think that... has employed about 6,000 employees in Ireland. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] How seriously others take their country's competitiveness is the best example of the UK proposal, which on the proposal, as we heard the unique rates of tax on digital services of 3% in the EU, announced the introduction of a rate of digital service tax of 2% in the United Kingdom to make it more competitive. I believe that this proposal to introduce taxes on digital services stops the development of the Croatian IT industry, as well as our country significantly reduces competitiveness in attracting foreign investment in our IT industry, especially in the world of introducing one of the highest rates of tax on digital services of 7%. I think it is unacceptable in the competitiveness of the EU. For the time being, the digital economy has been recognised as an important source for job growth, especially in view of the use of high levels of research, innovation and skilled labour. Regulatory changes for this sector must therefore be carefully designed and respected the principle of proportionality in order to ensure its development and achieve full potential within Croatia, and to realise the desired growth of employment, and to bring highly technological and profitable industries into our country. Tax policy should focus on supporting the growth of the digital sector within the single market, and it is important to encourage a favourable business environment through the removal of various regulatory barriers in order to... investments and development of this so-called Green industry, which we are now in the current local elections often hear from all political parties that a desirable part of the industry that should attract to the Republic of Croatia, and this is one of the ways to attract them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, the digital sector must make a fair contribution to public finances, I agree, but it is necessary to propose a balanced and stimulating tax policy, not restrictive and that reduces the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47579	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, she will now speak to the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47580	Here, first of all, I have to deny that initial your thesis that it's about bringing the digital industry into an unfavourable position with this tax, so again I'm going to repeat here it's about taxes only for digital giants. So it's not about taxes for small development companies. That's the first thing. The other thing about this vision that we have to be like Ireland is what is the classic problem thesis of a neoliberal that is going through in this public media space. We won't be like Ireland, there are historical reasons why Ireland's outpost is America and why there these IT companies have their branches, but here it means it's not about branches of companies, it's about taxes that would be imposed on the largest. That it's a 7% tax I don't agree with, so it's really a $1.1 million tax relief for every company after which tax goes on. This if this IT industry were opening jobs is the classic wrong thesis that is really and here going through our legal proposals, which would make our country a banana state with the lowest taxes, and what the IT industry has made sure is not safe jobs, it's a pretty slave that either goes abroad or works with us on insecure labour contracts. We made it possible here and that foreign law, so the arrival of these digital nomads by fully allowing them to pay the country's taxes, and to use the entire infrastructure, that's what our government would want. It means turning us low taxes into a banana state in which we will only have a low labour price for foreign investors and turn our workforce really into an IT slave right in some situations because our competitiveness is achieved exclusively by reducing labour prices, abolishing, closing jobs, meaning so-called. internal devaluation, not technological recovery, progression, industrial development, etc. Yes, we can, let's agree to move forward, but not by competing with a lower labour price and offering it overpriced slavery, and on the other hand, allowing wealthy Americans to be digital nomads here and not pay taxes from a country whose infrastructure they use. So the taxes damage the IT industry, and that high tax issue with us really has to be denied once and for all. We don't have high taxes, we may have high VAT, but we don't have high profit taxes. We have some of the lowest tax rates, so we don't even have a big tax problem. You have the lowest taxes in Macedonia. Macedonia is highest on the scale of so-called Doing business rankings. In Macedonia, 50% of the population cannot pay for heating. They have one of the highest unemployment rates in Europe. So tax cuts aren't the answer at all. On the other hand, Denmark, Germany has very high taxes, so this is not a problem for them to be competitive on the international market, but they are competitive not by internal devaluation and reducing labour prices but by technological progress, industrialisation, by restoring their own, meaning an economy that is truly strong that can be competitive in this world market. So if we're going to do these steps, it means we're going forward and forward by lowering the labour price, by reducing taxes on Ireland to be our model, we're really going to end up in really bad conditions, and that's what our government is doing. So all the time, tax reforms are being carried out with that trickle down logic, which is therefore completely disproved by that neoliberal, neoliberal counter-revolution that took place in the '80s. For years and after that, if we lower our taxes for the richest that these taxes, these reduced taxes will allow the richest to invest, that means it didn't happen at all. We have no confirmation that such a thing is possible in Western Europe, and neither is ours. So we had a situation where it was less invested, where it wasn't, where it was less economic growth than so-called. Welfare state after World War II and such logic trickle down that they will be the richest that they will merge and that they will open jobs etc. not at all confirmed as accurate. What happened was that internal devaluation all along. Trickle down logic is unfortunately in the background of most of our neoliberal laws such as tax reform, 5 tax reforms by Minister Maric where the richest have been allowed to lower their taxes, and the accumulation of savings has shown to have increased. So the richest didn't invest at all, it didn't. The new jobs didn't open. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47581	Thank you. The replica of the respected representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47582	Dear MPs obviously disagreed here, I will remind you that in fact all the former eastern states, the eastern bloc have actually attracted foreign investments actually with a competitively low labour price. This was primarily to move a large part of the industry from Western Europe to Eastern Europe, and this is also possible for us, that you do not think of this pre-election kind of propaganda here in the town of Bjelovar, 4 years ago and today the cause of the reduction of the cut, the tax on profits that has actually been abolished in the history of the city that you have a larger, larger budget, the best budget filling in 2020 in the course of the coronary crisis has been due to the achievement of new jobs and eviction of companies in micro-locations and within Croatia. Don't forget that entrepreneurs go for a minimum discharge. Where their poor working conditions are, they will also move within Croatia to places where they have some tax breaks that happened...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47583	Dear representative Peovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47584	In order for Bjelovar not to give instructions as the best positive example, there are no social benefits paid to people who do not want to participate in public works, so much for the social sensitivity of such a neoliberal city government, the authorities. But in any case, what's happening is denying you, meaning since the '80s, we're referring to the trickle down logic is completely defunct so there hasn't been a drop in investment, a decline in development, a decline in economic growth, so compared to the previous period, but these neoliberal logic and these arguments keep going through and they're really present both at us and in our legal proposals, and we're going back. Well, when you take the Czech Republic and other countries as examples of Poland, they are not good examples because the proximity of Germany and the transition of some German capital to those countries is slightly different than with us, we are not in the same situation. We have a concentration on service activities with low added value, a rapid drop in exports, Only 15% of the entrepreneurs export. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47585	The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Mako Kuzmanic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47586	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, the real truth is here somewhere in between. I highly appreciate my colleague Klasic, we sit together on the Defence Committee, and I think that one really quality representative is, however, not clearly shown here. I'd like to give you two information that would, let's just say, really fraternize you when we talk about investment in IT with us. Namely, IT is code on very bad branches due to the high price of labour tax. We need to separate two things here. The capital tax a colleague of Peovic spoke of, and a labour tax that makes our labour force incomprehensible. Because believe me, our people don't go to Ireland because there's a better climate, I've been to Ireland several times, Croatia is for the Irish diamond, but their entrepreneurial climate is different. I'll give you an example of just one project team, I come from the IT profession, we know something about it. If you have a team of 10 people in Croatia and Poland, we are talking about high-quality IT workforce, programmers and that, at the annual level, the labour tax price in Croatia is 300,000 euros, and 10 people in Croatia are paid 300,000 euros more than in Poland and Romania. That's why their workers are more competitive. What my colleague Peovic is talking about, it's a capital tax, Col. Klasic. And if you ask me, the key to a solution to the problem is the tax on work we have here, the capital tax that we need to introduce. Believe me, if this is the law that my colleague Peovic has proposed, we accept, it will have no damage to our economy. Why? First, I told you my colleague Klasic that I would give you two frat information that I know from our HGK, and it concerns IT. 84% of all IT companies in Croatia are based in Zagreb. Imagine, 84%, and we're talking about some branch that you said, 27 billion revenues in 2019. The second data is 70% of all revenues in IT industry, coming from working with the state. What does that mean? That means our IT industry is highly tied to the state and I'm going to say again, uncompetitive. Uncompetitive because of the high labour price. The key to solving this problem is tax allocation, tax redistribution on the worker and capital tax increase. But let's go back to this law that colleague Peovic proposed. In fact, the modernisation of this law is definitely commendable because today we need a more equal social distribution. And thank my colleague, Peovic, for investing in time and making a really quality document. However, the Corona threw certain activities on its knees, tourism, carriers, everything related to it, and on the other hand, with some other companies such as Amazon and some other companies that do not have their headquarters in Croatia, they made huge extra profits and paid ridiculous or almost no taxes. To us, the more equal tax allocation is certainly the most important reform in these difficult times, provided that everything written in this law, or in the very explanation itself, is acceptable to us. What is problematic, and I think that colleague Peric mentioned it, and it concerns that the tax is charged according to the total income and not according to the profit achieved, and absolutely nothing is written that it is precisely that rate of 7% because they have some comparative data with other countries where everyone else has fewer percentages. To streamline the debate with the reasons I expect my colleague Peovic to explain to me, just as our fellow Socialists and Social Democrats in the EU and in the EU Parliament who have proposed these changes at EU level, our club will support this law, of course, with the minimum adjustments and clarifications I expect from counterpart Peovic. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47587	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, she will again speak to the respected representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47588	Well, here's a little bit, so why is he incomeing and not winning? So these are companies that are registered somewhere else, which are not registered in Croatia and we can't locate their profits until we can locate and I mean, that's the proposal that the Slovenian Left proposed in their parliament and that went after them and asked their tax administration to give them data and they got data, meaning on the incomes from individual companies from digital services coming from Slovenia, so we could locate the revenues that come from digital services, so that's advertising, that's mediation, and that's selling user data since it's watching where the user comes from, or that's his IP address in Croatia. So these are the things that we could come to and from the ministry we got, so from Minister Marić we got the answer, some cumulative revenues from slightly less than 1 billion kuna, so they have that data. So that's why incomes are put and not profit, I mean these companies, of course, if they're 7% too much, they can always register their branches in Croatia and fall under the Law of Profit Tax, yes, but it's not happening, so they're going to go to these tax havens, Luxembourg, Ireland and there register their branches, and they're going to send us digital nomads who love our coast, our food and who won't pay taxes here, and I agree with you, the Irish-Croatian relationship, it's really nice, but we have to really let people stay here and it's certainly not going to be done, it's not going to happen if we're doing this kind of tax incentives, and it's already been the fifth tax relief that we've had in our last tax reform of Minister Marić, those over 30,000 kuna incomes that's got the biggest income tax relief, and that's got the five most tax reform that each of which we's got the same kind of every one's got the same kind of the same thing that they's going to say, and the new, and the new things, so it's, so it'll be possible. So we see the best indicator that this isn't happening, so of course we're often going to get an argument here, we've opened so many and so many jobs, compared to the precoron and precoron year we have so many and so many more jobs, etc., so these data are haired. The first reform at all that allowed Minister Maric to frigate the data on the unemployed was including and in fact redefinition of what it means to be employed in Croatia. Now here we have heard a new proposal coming from these negotiations between the government and the unions to redefine which means pay, so we will have more salaries by defining what is paid, and even what is not taxed as they add, will be defined as pay, so these are the statistical maneuvers that we understand each other, but they are not happening in any way any improvement, but what shows us that no improvement is happening and that can really not be frisked in any way, and these are indicators of material depression and poverty. So the data we get from the State Statistics Institute is the most important and they show that poverty and material deprivation are growing every year. So how many people in poverty conditions live, 1/3 in Croatia, as many as they can't pay regular costs, as many as 10%, over 10% can't have one meat meal or vegetarian substitution, etc., every other day, so that means, I mean, these indicators of material deprivation of poverty that can't really be haired, there's specific data, and they're telling us that we're not making progress, I don't think, no matter what our government is frisking that statistical data. Therefore, after 30 years. This direction let's try something else, let's try not to lower taxes for the richest, let's go into the covid crisis of those richest digital giants tax to improve our status of the poorest, let's direct that pill upside down. What we've been doing so far is certainly not a solution, and what most people suggest, and even the opposition, I must say, is that we just step up a little bit so far and their thesis is that we're simply not consistent enough with that neoliberalization, and when we're consistent, then we're going to be that so-called. roof capitalism is an ortacic capitalism that will contain everything wonderful and wonderful, but we are not in social capitalism, we are in capitalism on the periphery of Europe and it looks just like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47589	The replica of the respected representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47590	Representative Peovic, thank you. I understand what you're trying to say, but just make up your mind about something. In Croatia, it cannot be cheaper to pay a profit tax than to hire a new employee. So we're talking about the IT industry are pay pretty high. So either you will lower the cost of labour or tax on employees or you will increase the profit tax rate. The way I see it, and as I think it is, I think you should cut the tax on workers, so that's the key to the solution. And what you have said about income and profit then in the law only state the tax on profit is charged if the profit cannot be determined is charged to so much and so much tax at the level of the company's income in Croatia. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47591	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47592	Okay. As far as this other guy is concerned, I don't know what the problem is that it's defined like this with income I have to admit. I don't think there's any problem with the fact that we already have that data, so we can locate them, unlike getting them to me, it seems there may be no reason for argument. But, well, now we've gone wide into some other problems. As far as the labour price is concerned, unfortunately we're here somewhere in the middle. According to statistics, European statistics, our labour and labour prices and isolation mean something not much higher than in other countries in Europe. Now, there are a number of ways we can improve our competitiveness. My argument and argument of the Workers' Front is that the worst form of competitiveness is this so-called. the internal devaluation that comes to us constantly as the primary and first model means competitiveness, which is the reduction of the labour price. It may be, but this is also very important that you yourself said the IT industry mostly with the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47593	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Totgergeli will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47594	Thank you, Vice President HS, dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law written on 6.5 pages and 15 articles is based on the European Commission’s initial proposal of 2018. on the common system of taxes on digital services taxing revenue from the provision of certain digital services. At that time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia took a position on the working bodies of the Council of the EU, which supports that initiative in the form of a temporary solution, i.e. the adoption of a global solution to the taxation of the digital economy at OECD level. According to this proposal of the law, as well as that of the European Commission, it would be taxed on the first placing on the digital advertising interface aimed at users of that interface, the making available of a multilateral digital interface to users who can find other users and their interactions, and which can also enable the provision and delivery of goods or services directly to users. Third, sales of collected data on users and data generated by user activities on digital interfaces. The emphasis of the European Commission's proposal was on a temporary tax intended to ensure that activities that are currently not taxed start to bring revenue to EU Member States immediately. It would also contribute to avoiding unilateral measures to tax digital activities by national solutions and thus harm the single market. Since the beginning of the debate at EU level, our government has been pushing for a global solution because it believes that unilateral measures are taking place on the EU market and distorting competition, for this very reason it did not go to the national level to initiate the proposal of the Law on Taxation of Digital Services. The 2018 legislative resolution of the European Parliament stated that the Commission's proposal is a temporary solution and, if no agreement is reached on a comprehensive solution with the OECD, the European Commission needs to make a proposal at EU level to avoid Member States multiplying their individual solutions. Due to the high complexity of the problem as well as the impact of the covid-19 disease pandemic, progress at the international level within the OECD has been somewhat slowed down and has been prolonged until mid - 2021. It is expected that some consensus will be reached in June 2021, which would then be aimed at introducing no later than 1 January 2023. At the request for a letter of evidence from the European Commission's intention, we see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has expressed a confirmed view on the validation of the initiative on the presentation of a new proposal on the digital commitment for June 2021. Taking into account that the European Commission plans to make a proposal for a digital imposition in June 2021 and that it is also expected in June to reach an international consensus on the adoption of a global solution, the HDZ Club considers that at this time it is not opportunised to take unilateral measures to introduce a national tax on digital services in line with the proposed law. We also believe that it is necessary to assess the extreme effects of regulating the tax treatment of digital services proposed by the law in question, given the fact that the holders of the small economy are users of these products and services with a trend of increasing the scope of using them and that there is a legitimate concern that such a change of legislation may result in an increase in the price of services by large taxpayers by providing digital services. We know that this government has in the past four years in the last term, and it has now continued with the tax reforms and the discussions that we have heard here today about taxes on labour prices affecting the labour price, and at the time of this government, this tax is more reduced than perhaps a few governments have done before. I therefore believe that one trend that we have in reducing all tax duties is that it is good and it may not be a reference year again, but in 2019, when we actually had fewer tax rates in 2019 than in 2018, we actually raised more funds in the tax-based budget than the year before when we had rates. Therefore, the fact that it is necessary to raise funds always means to introduce new taxes or taxes does not mean that it will get a good result because it can kill economic activity. Sometimes exactly the opposite, and this has proved through the work of our government in the past and this challenge that tax cuts stimulate economic activity and the overall effect is much better than the other way around. After all, the HDZ club will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47595	Now, again on behalf of the promoter, she will speak to the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47596	Well, I think it's all been answered now that would have been repeating what I've said before, but only colleague Totgergeli 40 pages of this bill, I don't know where you've seen 6.5 pages. You may have read some other document, but there are 40 pages here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47597	We have a replica of Honorable Agent Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47598	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. You must listen to me when I speak, I said that the law is written on 6.5 pages and 15 articles. I mean, if this proposal you've come up with really has 6.5 pages and 15 articles, now we can count it once, twice, three times, four times, but it's really like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47599	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47600	Well, even the law itself, the laws don't have a lot of pages, there are seven pages, but good. I think this 6.5-page remark was really unnecessary because the laws usually don't have 40 pages, but the explanation is very important and there they can agree with some frequent remarks and on your part that come when you get the legal proposal you reject, but it has an explanation on one single page, so it's not correct and I can agree with that. But this legislative proposal has really tried to explain why it's a good legal proposal and I don't think we're arguing here and what's really sad is that when you have a good legal proposal, you reject it just because it comes from opposition. It's really not correct, and it's not in, I mean in the function of what we're supposed to be doing here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47601	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be the green-left block, and will be spoken by respected representative Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47602	My colleagues and colleagues, allow me to offer at the beginning of this debate an appropriate definition of statehood and sovereignty, or their development. We could say that the history of sovereignty is actually a history of reimagination of taxation. That, of course, is neither unique nor the most precise definition, but it is as good as the framework for this debate, the debate on taxation of digital services. First of all, I'd like to say that this proposal is very well on track. Digital giants should also be taxed that the idea today represents some general place in global politics. In the interest of clarity of the public, I would like to stress that this bill does not apply to Croatian companies, i.e. those who are tax residents in our country. This proposal refers to huge digital giants such as Alphabet, Amazon, Facebook and others who have avoided paying taxes for years, while making a neat living in the territory of Croatia and other countries. Not only did tax havens avoid tax payments through tax havens, but they were also responsible for dumping prices that made it impossible for domestic smaller companies to compete fairly. We are talking about companies whose profits in the pandemic economic crisis have been growing dizzyly, we heard this from colleague Peovic, while workers in traditional companies have lost their jobs, and entrepreneurs have failed, because the state is asking them for much more than reasonable, and digital giants to the state do not actually have any comparable or proportionate responsibility. There. And we made that clear. One would think that Croatia would follow the example of Italy, France, Slovenia and a number of other countries that introduced such a tax, but our Government and its parliamentary bed of love, do not take it as an insult, refuse to tax the digital giants and justify it with fear of American sanctions. Fear of sanctions, that's what the Financial Committee says. Cocoa's pathetic, cowardly, servant-like attitude. At first, I said that the history of sovereignty can be seen as a history of reimagination of taxation. If our government is afraid to collect taxes because they are afraid of sanctions, then what is their vision of sovereignty of our country? In addition, do you really think that the United States is going to hit Croatia's sanctions for, well, about 150 million kunas, not dollars, kunas. This is not a bar debate, this is a Parliament in which the government sent an opinion based on non-information because even if they had followed any more serious media, they would know that despite the threats of the Trump administration, the United States did not launch sanctions against Italy and France, which, if I am not mistaken, are the only EU member states that have been threatened by the introduction of a digital tax. I recommend that they drink coffee with someone from the American Embassy here in Zagreb and discuss this subject, what policy Biden's administration is. Trust me, they don't bite. They were in the Parliament too. And finally, I would like to direct you to another coffee with someone from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Association whose successor, Petar Pavić, was only 2.5 weeks ago, I think, spoke to me on a webinar dedicated to the market and legislative changes caused by the global domination of Bih Tech. I'm going to quote his words, because it seems to me that in this debate, this bill is not about the content of the law, it's about who's proposing it. So, for example, a brand or a Croatian company buys advertising space on Croatian media, but since money passes through a Google system that is registered in Ireland, the Croatian state from the whole transaction in tax terms does not see any kuna. On the other hand, the brand doesn't know how much of his money ended up with the advertiser, and the media doesn't know at what price Google sold his advertising space to the brand. The problem is that the current tax laws do not recognise the virtual place as proof of the territory on which the purchase is made, although it is clear that the portal whose domain ends with the extension –hr and where the content is shown in Croatian language is located in Croatia. I'll give you another piece, we've got so much time. But Google is being prosecuted on charges of manipulating the stock market. We all know in our profession that we have to have an add-on server, of course, best to take Google's because if you choose another one, some magic formula will pass up to 30%. So by the very fact that you went to the competition, you lose your income, and through these advertising systems Google makes $100 billion a year, for the Croatian market, about 20 million a year, including Facebook, was elaborated by Pavić. So here, if you don't believe it, if you're having trouble being told by Katarina Peovic, maybe you should listen to someone from HGK. These are your people's moss anyway, don't be losers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47603	Next, we go to individual debates and will speak to the respected representative Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47604	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, my colleague Peovic made an effort to make a proposal with a lot of data and arguments, and it cannot be disputed that good material was not done in that sense. What is known is that the digital economy brings great benefits to citizens and also to companies. In this pandemic, COVID crisis indeed has made this digital economy and platforms much simpler and easier and business and communication, but it is precisely the growth of these services that poses a greater challenge for existing taxation systems. I have pointed out precisely in the replica, which means in relation to our tax system and otherwise the tax system of all states, so our tax system does not yet know any virtual domain but actually knows a business unit or company that has its head office in some area. Therefore, why the Republic of Croatia itself advocates a global solution, namely that what the State Secretary himself said, is therefore questionable how effective the collection is in these countries which are largely such taxes on digital services since the possibility of tax collection is then very questionable and narrowed and actually instruments that we can influence through the General Tax Law are very, very limited. What is important is to say that all sectors, to seek in the tax system, make it possible for all sectors to pay their part of the tax and contribute to the functioning of our society. Since November 2020, therefore, finance ministers have adopted this principle to really raise the issue of tax policy and digital services. What is important to point out, e.g. that in France there is a tax, for example. 3% and that all those who introduced this digital tax have only reacted or reacted in early 2020 or in mid-2020, although much, much earlier, has been discussed in the EU. And what's important to say is that in France, for example, they introduced that companies that have traffic are more than 25 million euros and globally over 750 million euros, pay that 3%, and by that they should have charged about 400 million euros of tax on that basis. When you compare the data given here in a material that says that in the United States companies, large companies like Facebook, Apple, Google etc., they have reported a profit of a thousand and a hundred billion dollars and that they pay US profits 32.2% and that they reported profits outside the United States over 738 billion profits and that they paid only 60 billion taxes abroad, so only 8.4%. All of this we can believe and surely that it is and are not taxed enough in this way covered but then we can also discuss when it comes to whether or not we are competitive and what is often a hindrance, which is a tax or contributions paid to work and they're classified as taxes which they're not. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47605	We have a replica of the respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47606	Thank you, colleague. What I would ask is, so you said our tax system doesn't recognize the virtual domain, but so it's quite clear today that the OECD recognizes the European Commission, that even Biden's administration recognizes it and that we can't agree at all about it anymore, and I'm going to say what we've commented here so little orally, when you're looking for that data and you're collecting it, maybe it's good to see how much American dollars are spent just lobbying these American companies in the EU not to introduce such a tax, so we have to be aware that despite all this, and lobbying has to be introduced because of fair taxation, and that's something that's really more, really, we don't have to argue about it at all. And when you say hard implementation, it's up to you to apply that implementation And I have to say, you can do it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47607	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47608	Thank you very much. Yes, that's why I said it was necessary before, and the goal is for the Republic of Croatia to achieve this global agreement, or that it must then go parallelly with the amendment of the Tax on Profits, where it could then be affected in these domains or virtual domains and treated, tax treatment certain entities that could and should, we have no income tax on total income or total turnover, which is then directly here in the conflict with our laws. So it takes a long time before we make a pre-determined prerequisite to then be able to implement the law in this way or in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47609	The Honorable Stier has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Peric seems to me that there is no conceptual disagreement over the need to tax digital services. The question is, of course, how do you implement it? It is the government's view that it is most effective to do so through a global solution. Now the second question when we are already on the digital economy and when we hear people coming from that sector is, in part, a colleague from the SDP also said on the subject, that the biggest problem for further development of the digital economy in Croatia is exactly the issue of labour tax, and I think there is still a need to highlight the tax reform that the government has made and the direction that it is going to be is to reduce this burden, or to tax work so that our then and thus the digital economy is more competitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47611	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47612	That's right, thank you very much. Yes, I haven't been able to elaborate, so the tax rates on work are significantly reduced, and on many occasions and at all levels, respecting actually the methodology that we have and which we have taken as proper and as good, which ultimately brings as much tax revenue as possible. But what gets in the way of the public is that they're contributions to health, to pension insurance tax. It is the contribution of each of us, it is our personal right that we use directly through health services or the right that we will use when we retire. Therefore, it is something that should be compared then which are rights in Ireland, for example, to a health worker or how much pension he has when he retires.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47613	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak for the finally respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47614	Here's what I'm going to use first of all to replicate, that such a tax and such a policy should really be a dominant logic that taxes are used for health, for retirement, for better standards of everyone, but precisely those corporations that we want to tax don't do, that's what we want to stress, so that's what needs to be turned around. And now that you're saying that I have to say that I'm just as surprised as my colleague at this argument that we have to be afraid of some sanctions on America if we introduce 150 million kuna taxes on digital services, it's really shocking, so it's really that autocolonial principle that we should completely eliminate from our policy. But when we say that, I must say, one more thing in the government's response has really horrified me, and here it has been repeated by the secretary of state to say that it should be determined whether the introduction of such taxes is unjust and discriminatory to American companies or whether it will result in sanctions. But the answer already implies that it may be unwarranted and discriminatory to these companies. Well, exactly what you were saying, not that it's not unwarranted and it's discriminatory, but these companies should bear that burden of crisis and ensure those who are really hard to live a little better right now. So I'm going to think really horrified by this government response, remind you of how we talk about taking advantage of that digital character gain or creation gain. When I talk about this character of what we're actually talking about and how we've come to the fact that these big companies are in some advantage. So tax oasis research has shown that large digital companies are truly champions in tax evasion. Compared to traditional companies, it is much easier to manipulate the transfer of services and products, multinational companies forge prices at which their branches buy their own products and services. In the same corporation of a branch in Ireland or Luxembourg, they are expensive to sell goods and services to their own branches in France or Germany, and that is how the profit is recorded in tax havens while losses are recorded in large European economies where taxation is higher, including ours. Tax administrations can easily expose traditional companies that sell overrated physical products, however, by manipulating patent prices, logos, trademarks, programs do not risk too much because their value is more difficult to assess. Because of this, in tax evasion today, they really are the predecessors, not that they would be in an unequal position, but actually we would have located them, and that will happen sooner or later, as we all argued, what is clearly unfair in that tax logic. They are in an unequal position not only of traditional companies when we speak here but also of digital companies, not to mention the users of these services that are in an unequal position. If we're already using the services of large corporations that serve us commercials, which our data sells, then we'd have to have some sort of compensation for that, right, that's something that's fair. So, that this answer really horrified me because we are already implying not only that there can be some sanctions from America but that these sanctions are justified because they are being put in a position, not an equal position of the American company, absolutely incredible. So I've already said before that, that it's already been found that Apple would have paid an incredibly much bigger amount of tax in this period, that this digital tax exists. But I'll give you a few more details. So it is a sign of this example of Apple's business and tax payments in Ireland that is the most famous example that is under the European Commission's increase since 2013 watch over me here, it was mentioned here in 2020, but in 2013, a campaign for more equal taxation of these digital companies has already started. So the European Competition Commission's main administration has discovered a complex system for which Ireland has allowed Apple and other digital corporations from 2003 to 2014 to accumulate profits for which no tax has been paid. Apple's tax operation is known as that double Irish, right. In that period, Apple should pay 35% of the profit tax in the United States, which is only 12.3% in Ireland, but lower profit tax was not the only advantage of operating in Ireland. Ireland has also allowed any European branch of Apple to set up a branch in the Luxembourg, Bermuda, and so on to which it can transfer all tax obligations. The tax oasis branch then charged the Irish company with the use of intellectual property, meaning patents of trademarks and derived almost all income obtained in the country. Apple used this to avoid profit tax from the sale of telecommunications devices in the event of the same costs and physical production together with labour costs are less than 1/5 retail prices. It is therefore possible to show in the revenue from the sale of an iphone of more than EUR 1,000, which is more than EUR 800, as an income from intellectual property. So these are the margins we are talking about, which means more than EUR 1,000 worth of a single iphone is paid or shown as intellectual, intellectual property income and then tax is charged in that tax haven or tax evasion to show a significantly lower profit or even loss. Due to international pressure, Ireland had to abolish the double Irish in 2014, meaning a double Irish arrangement and require all foreign branches to be their tax residents. But the political promises were soon abandoned and the old tax regime was extended fearing the withdrawal of US companies and firing Apple is the largest private employer in Cork where it has headquarters and about 6,000 employees. Digital corporations have evolved into the world's largest companies that's another thing to mention here. So it is evident that they were not in a privileged position to talk here about a very unfair and unfair system which was located in 2013, but be careful there are several dimensions of such an irregular position why we should not justify America is by this justification that we received from the ministry that it may have the right to even sanctions because they are in an unfair position of the company, absurdally real. Digital corporations have been evaluating into the world's largest companies in the last two decades, we know that. So in 2000, only one of Microsoft's digital companies was among the 10 largest companies in the world by market capitalisation, and today digital companies are taking the first 6 out of 10 places. The total value of 6 digital giants is 7000 550 billion dollars which is almost 3 times more than France's GDP and 124 times Croatia's GDP, to be clear. The concentration of digital companies at the top of the scale is not random and it is the same thing as an equal, unequal relationship. This stems from the fact that each of them created a monopoly position in its area. However, their monopoly position largely stems from the very way digital services are created. So it's not possible to launch some new social network so you can all concentrate there and leave this digital network that you don't want to use anymore because of advertising and selling your user information. So starting a new social network is not possible because if it were equal quality, for example, as Facebook, it would make it difficult for the lack of this critical mass of users to make the service a user at all. Therefore, on the Internet, the impact is largely possible by collecting and analysing data. Facebook draws data from an existing user database, analyzes them and uses them to improve its service. A new company on the market that would like to compete with Facebook without access to the Facebook user base could not at all create a service comparable to web search-like quality, Google means its initial success is based on a quality search-based algorithm but today the comparable quality of the results can no longer be achieved without access to Google's historical search base. The collection and analysis of data thus creates a often insurmountable obstacle to the entry of new companies into the market, so I think an old story since 19-century capitalism by creating a monopoly. We often hear a free competition here, but a free competition is largely a myth if we take into account these historical examples that always tend to achieve one type of monopoly and monopoly status on that market. So today's monopoly position of digital companies is based not only on the monopolization of data but also on the monopolization of their use. The use of data in this case means the use of large data for the dissemination of services and monetization by advertising Facebook and Google. Most of their revenue comes from advertising. In 2018, these companies totalled a fifth of the total global income from internet advertising, doubling that share, in the past 5 years. The huge growth is recorded by companies whose business models are based on the so-called so-called business models. e-commerce like Amazon. From 2008 to 2016, the average annual growth of 5 best e-commerce companies is 32% while the overall retail sector in the EU grew on average by 1% annually. So I've already listed all this data, in the Covid crisis Amazon gets an even bigger advantage, means that 40% income growth in the second quarter of '20, not to mention Netflix 166%, Amazon, Facebook 100%, etc. So I have to say that she's an argument from the government that concerns me. It is quite clear that you will reject this proposal of the Tax Act on Digital Services we have seen this many times in this assembly, this assembly has not seen many examples in order to agree with the opposition, I can accept it so, but what we would have to put here as a problem that should no longer be repeated and we really have to, we need to put a reflector on such a type of argument, and that is the autocolonial position of our government that American sanctions are justified because American companies would be put in an unfavourable position. It is something that people sitting here in the assembly, people who are among the rulers cannot possibly tolerate this type of autocolonialism where we put ourselves in the position of a child subject and we have no critical relationship at all, a critical relationship with such a type of argument that we justify large American companies that are already meant to have an absolute consensus on how tax and tax structure really contributed to these digital companies and even more even Biden's administration can't ignore and agree to this agreement that will be reached at some point, and we use this type of logic in our argument that we don't only have to fear American sanctions and that it's a nice word from a colleague, Glavaevic, so there's nowhere to be found that such sanctions are imposed. There may have been an investigation, of course there's always pressures at international level, but we've never seen anyone really suffer from such sanctions. But worse than all that, we are not just not going to be in a position to impose such sanctions on us, which is not realistic at all, but in argument we are interpreting and justifying our government that will not introduce such a tax, by argument that American people could be put into an unfavourable position. So that's really something we have in a series of arguments, in a series of political justifications. I will not mention the covid crisis here, the possibility of getting medicines where we have brought all the people in Croatia into an unfavourable position because of such an autocolonial attitude towards European logic, the European logic of the supply of medicines. I won't talk about Rijeka's port where we broke up the tender because the Chinese corporation offered the best offer, and there is an American and European intensive political and economic plan to meet Chinese investments in Europe in the last 2-3 years. And we agree to this type of blackmail. But this, so where absolutely everyone agreed that there is a perfectly rational argument that digital giants are taxing that we justify it by making American companies in a more unfavourable position, it's totally unacceptable. Unacceptable is from the point of view of some commitment to the well-being of everyone in this country. A lot of people like to drill into their chests that they're patriots, but if we get this kind of argument from those who claim to be patriots, then something really isn't right. We can't agree to that, and I think there really should be a draw and that this kind of argument is no longer heard or offered. I say, this law will probably be introduced, but the argument of the ruling is worrying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47615	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47616	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Peovic, perhaps we should address once more something that my colleague Stier, in an earlier replica, has found to be related to, for a confusion that seems to come about who this tax actually refers to. So, here we're not talking about domestic IT companies, we're talking about digital giants here, and if we're talking about the labour price, then maybe we should just say that these digital giants of companies that have tremendously unfair practices, by Amazon, whose workers, now there are a lot of reports that work under inhumane conditions, so how much, it's not that they're bothered by the high labour price, but they're bothered by the labour price, point. And their other practices, as my colleague said, as you said colleagues, are very non-market behaviour, from pre-dumping, monopolism, tax ejaculation, I mean actually creating gig economics, so these are the things that justify this tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47617	Thank you. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47618	Yes, I don't know why this mustache and often in the argument states that digital companies, small developmental digital companies in Croatia will be brought into an unfavourable position, so it's repeatedly highlighted. This is a tax solution and a legal proposal for tax on digital services only for the biggest ones, so I don't think we can talk about Croatian firms at all, and no Croatian firm will fall under this law. I say some new companies will still fall under that law, zoom it out somewhere on the border as a corporation and it will be affected by this law very quickly because it grows income and profit. But what my colleague Glavasevic is talking about is also very important to consider when we talk about these relations of strength. Indeed, it is a digital sector in which, as a rule, it is about premium labour contracts, insecure labour contracts, downsizing labour prices, they come to Croatia because our experts are cheaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47619	Thank you. The replica of Honorable counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. No, no, I understand exactly who this law applies to because, as I understand it, 20 million euros will not save the state budget, so let's be open to the end. But I was talking about something else that if we're really talking about the development of the digital economy and if you want to talk about some key real issue in general for the development of our economy, then it's to cut the labour tax. E and exactly the tax reform the government has implemented and the policy it implements goes that way and it's done that and you've criticised it, you have a second concept, you want a big state, you want an expensive state, okay, that's your ideology. But exactly what the Croatian government has done to reduce the labour tax is that it increases competitiveness and enables development.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47621	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47622	Okay, let's do it again. So the labour tax is reduced, but mostly for those who have the highest, highest wages. So that's over £30,000, those who have over £30,000, they've got the biggest tax relief. It's Maric's fifth tax reform. After 5 reforms, if tax cuts to those who have the highest salary didn't win, you want to make six, we're going to cut their salary even more? It means "fleet war." All the same. What we require, is not what you have now written simplisticly, what the Workers' Front requires is progressive taxation, progressive taxation almost civilizational principle that those who have the lowest wages, that their wages increase, you have done exactly the opposite, and you have done it five times the exact opposite. I think after the 5th time we should already see that tax cuts for the richest did not introduce investments and did not increase economic work. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47623	The next replica is the respected representative Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47624	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues, in your argument, you were talking about how a monopolized market or the largest IT companies come from the United States, right, starting with Apple, Google, Amazon, etc. So when we talk about it, you're aware of the situation when the system fell, for example. Facebook or Google, which means business around the world. Therefore, when he writes that the consequence of this is possible some implications that are, it is not out of fear that we are not sovereign enough in this country, but really we are concerned about the overall economy, the fair and proper coverage of tax revenues or what is written and what has not been generally resolved in the EU system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47625	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47626	Well, I don't know, I don't think Croatia should worry about Googles and Facebook servers, that we shouldn't need it to be the primary concern, in Croatia the primary concern should be how to improve the lives of all and most of the poorest, and that is exactly what taxes mean for the richest, you can improve the status of the poorest. When we talk here about a free market game that is equally important in response, which should be valued as the pupil of your eye, then we should also say where we are in this free competition and we are just about to begin. So we've been doing the same thing for 30 years, and we expect to get some other results with the same reactions. I don't really know what else we should do to digital giants, give tax reliefs maybe, here's what we did to digital nomads, maybe we should do to them because the only thing we do to that developed West is to allow them to use our infrastructure without paying taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-05-0.u47627	Thank you very much, I would like to conclude a debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will also end today's work, continue tomorrow, on Thursday, May 6, at 9:30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law on Official Controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, food for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 98. Have a nice rest of the afternoon. [[Session interrupted at 13.37 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.03 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will now, as planned, move to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, and the first one on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement will speak to the esteemed representative Daniel Spajic, please.
