ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u42781	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Ruzica Vukovac will be the position of the National Movement Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u42782	Thank you. Dears, after yesterday's debate on structural and investment funds in the Republic of Croatia, I conclude that the ruling did not realise the seriousness of the situation we have in the Croatian village. The Croatian village has been economic and infrastructureally lagging behind the city for decades and is demographically backward. A large number of residents from the village to the city and the expressed process of depopulation have significantly reduced the developmental opportunities of Croatian villages and a complete rural space. These negative trends continued over the last decade and deepened the uneven economic and social development of rural areas with negative consequences for the stabilisation of population and the overall economy of Croatia. The biggest problems of today's inhabitants of the village are as confirmed by many researches, unemployment, poor infrastructure equipment of the settlement, and generally worse living conditions than the city. A large number of village residents, more than a fifth of them, intend to leave the village and move to the city. The new exodus of the village population can only be prevented by increasing employment and income and by developing infrastructure in the rural area, in primary agricultural production where the size of ownership to the level of economic sustainability needs to be increased. This is possible through the transparent sale of the remaining state land to rural economies that work, create and live in the countryside, and by consistent implementation of the provisions of the Agricultural Land Act which must be directed towards the family economy. It's been good enough for large capital. It is necessary to significantly encourage direct sales of agricultural products and processing on the economy, production and marketing of products with added value, i.e. traditional and innovative products, then all forms of agrotourism and alternative energy sources, in particular the production of green energy. Furthermore, economic benefits from private forests should be increased and rural economies should be included in the exploitation of national forests. The rural population should be involved in providing municipal and social services in the rural area. As a good example, a Bavarian example of the restoration of the village that began in 1970 and which helped greatly integrate its rural policy far better and better quality. The further depopulation of the Croatian village will be devastating for the entire Croatian society, and its biggest consequences will be the following. First of all, uncontrolled urbanisation, further uneven state development, insufficient use of spatial and human potential, and ultimately poverty of the entire Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u42783	Thank you, too. Mr Silvano Hrelja will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u42881	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, today in the procedure, I am referring the bill to the adoption of which this high house would solve two problems. He would equate pensioners for a long-term internship that is those 60 years of life, 41 years of internships that were retired until 31.12.2013 and have a retirement pension of 9% and those retired after 1 January 2015 with the same conditions that do not have a pension. For the lowest pension, this is 41 years times 70 kuna equals 2.870 kuna minus 9% 2,612 kuna. The man was cut off for 258 kunas a month or 3,096 a year. The bigger the pension, the bigger the difference as well as the loss of pensioners who had conditions 60, 41 before 31.12.2013. Personally, on behalf of the coalition at the time, I apologize for the fact that we have installed this special category of pensioners without a pension in 2014 despite the great pressures of the World Bank and the European Commission that we are not doing so. We did this thanks to the most pressure of four HSU deputies in the assembly, but we did not solve the previously retired who met the 60, 41 criteria. We had a plan to resolve it as well as family pensions in the European way in 2016, but in the 2015 parliamentary elections, as well as in 2016, the citizens denied us or did not deserve their trust to a sufficient extent. The second thing I want by this bill is to lift the pension of the lowest pensions ranging from 9% to 20.4% for 5 years early retirement depending on the year of retirement. The lowest pension is determined in a way that in a year no one can have less than 70 kuna. That should do it. The lowest must be the lowest if we respect logic and mathematics. I thought underneath the lowest couldn't fall except in human nonsense and politics, but we did find the bottom of the bottom and went below. I didn't think so, and I don't think there's room in the pension system for that right now, that someone with 2,000 kuna pensions for 30 years can be punished for life with 18% less pensions of $1,722 or taken from him because of that 5 years of early retirement. A poor, ragged worker with 30 years of training has been sentenced to life misery and poverty, and they are mostly women in this situation. If the absurd had been bigger, if they had accidentally found a job up to 4 hours a day by law, if they had made 1,000 kuna legal dollars a month somewhere, then that churchgirl would have been cut off from retirement. I'm forced to speak so harshly and brutally because in this country a fine liquid language, no one understands liquid speech. To conclude, in the bill of law, I suggest that the pension of the lowest pensions be abolished and that we stop lying, if we are normal. There's no lower than the lowest right, there isn't. And unfortunately, in this society, it has existed for 20 years and produced a terrible amount of grief and grief for the users of the lowest early retirement. To be clear, all my proposals for the law are solutions and part of the mosaics of my fight against poverty for the eradication of life in the misery of former hardworking workers who have come to this situation not by their own fault. Everyone can ignore them, but by closing their eyes to the injustices of our citizens, we make them unhappy, be aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u42882	You, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u42907	Mrs. Devereaux. Sandra Bencic will hold the position of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u42908	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today, as I hope you all know the Day of the Earth which we have today dedicated to the Committee on the Environment of course to climate change and organized together with the Association of Tataka, with the Embassy of France and the Embassy of Great Britain and the special adviser of the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. In July, the Domac plays a game that does not actually serve the game but rather learn and is called Contemporary Collage. I want to thank everyone who participate first and I also want to say that I am sorry that there were no more MPs or MPs because when we come to the issue of climate change, many of us think that we know everything, but we actually very little know about the many important things that are crucial to our relationship with the regulations that we bring in this home. For this reason, I think that learning, literal learning and our education as representatives in particular of those representatives and MPs who are not only in the Committee on the Environment but in any other committee on climate change is crucial in order to better understand the matter that we bring and look at the consequences that these regulations can have in a positive or negative sense not only on our environment but on the survival of us as humanity. So it's clear somewhere that climate change is the biggest challenge humanity has faced, and it's certainly the biggest challenge of our generation. However, these established practices and understandings are difficult to change. Many, many MPs, MPs, or many people in general have this view of climate change that so-called. a technological fix to solve the problem. It won't solve the problem, it won't solve the problem alone, or that doesn't mean we don't need the technology, which means it's not enough. So we must bear in mind that the key to preventing climate change lies in our system of values, in our attitudes that shape our relationship with each other, towards society, towards the economy as such and towards the environment. Many still see climate change exclusively through the dimension of nature protection, so we are talking about some sort of temporary or technical solution. But the fact is that the issue of climate change prevention is actually the question of humanity's survival. Nature will recover after us, start some new cycle, the planet will remain, we won't. And that's no longer a question of the distant black future and SF movies but climate change is the thing we feel right now, today, our farmers can ask them, they'll tell you first. Croatia is one of the 3 EU countries most affected by climate change precisely in the area of agriculture. So it's not a question of some great-grandfather, it's a question of whether our children will have access to basic resources to survive, talk about water, talk about energy, talk about food. So, in 2020, so last year's so-called year. Earth Overshot Day or the day we spent all our resources for that year was already in August, when we spent all those resources we could spend to spend them on a sustainable basis. This year it'll be sooner. We're moving faster and faster towards spending half the year on all the earth's resources for that year. So other than the weather for climate change, we are also associated with this related time of the sixth great extinction. So scientists warn that all indicators of the rapid disappearance of the plant and animal world clearly suggest that this large extinction is caused by human activities. By the end of this century, our activities as a consequence could have been the result of a comet strike that caused the dinosaurs to disappear. So we know that these days the European Parliament and the EU Council have reached an agreement on a climate law that requires us to become carbon neutral by 2050 and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. It's a compromise, but it's a step forward too. But to make it a step forward we've been in this home since today, since yesterday in every regulation that We bring as a key question we have to ask ourselves what's the impact [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's on the air conditioning. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u42980	Yeah, well, we can go now, we won't go now, now we're going to go on free speeches since here it's, in just one second, now it's 1 hour, and then we're going to go on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives and the first one will speak to the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u42981	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today it is a month since the earthquake in Zagreb, yes, a month has passed quickly when you have fun, so quickly that nothing has happened in Zagreb and absolutely nothing is known. No organization, no coordination, no response for people whose homes are damaged or destroyed, no answers for schools, colleges, museums, theatres, public institutions and private companies of all kinds whose premises are damaged. But someone has to do something, so here in the Assembly, I ask those who are in power in the state, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ when something finally gets out of place? Will it be on its way soon, will the Zagreb and Zagreb women finally be able to get any answers other than the landing of their shoulders, whoever they turn to? Dear colleagues and colleagues, at first I said that today is a month from the earthquake not because I lost track of time, it's actually part of the speech that I gave here in the Parliament exactly 12 months ago when we marked a month after the earthquake and then I commented that nothing was working and that things were going very slowly. Today, 13 months after the earthquake that hit our capital, the speech is as current as it was a year ago, and it's really tragic. I think that all of you who are in power in the state together with those who are in power in the City of Zagreb should be so ashamed that they should not appear at all until something starts to happen, and not to be so arrogant and inflated as to share a pack and a lesson to anyone who remembers. My colleagues and colleagues from HDZ from the government are pounding both left and right, you imitate your current boss, and the shame of politics and work is right under your nose. So let me just say what I should do in Zagreb in this remaining time, which should be done in Zagreb. Every 22nd of every month, I keep really persistent and consistently going out and talking about it, and every time I say it, it will make me happy the day I say the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb has begun. Today in the city of Zagreb, the reconstruction that is happening is because our citizens are doing it themselves. Then what happens to them? They file a request and then they're told that there's more paperwork to be delivered, they file a request, and then they're told they're misrepresented. So, since the renovation in the City of Zagreb, there is still no O, no single brick has moved because it was organised systematically or done. And instead of confessing and saying, my people have passed the law we have problems with that law, my people have adopted a programme of measures first, and then we've changed it because in the meantime there really has been a disaster in the area of Bania/Banovina, and we have to change that something. Instead of saying we have a fund, the fund manager saw his role as a kind of PR when he had some idea of being mayor of the City of Zagreb then gave it up and then he neatly said that the decisions made by the ministry travel to him for days, months. Instead of defining the renovation in three stages, something that is urgent is still the backdrops in the City of Zagreb are nylons, still on the roofs there are nylons well flown that do not fly when the wind blows, so something that is urgent, something that is constructive and something that is complete. Let's say the buildings were divided into family houses so they had one methodology, a multi-state something else, blocks of the third, public purposes something fourth or special, but then something that could be embarrassing to us and that we could be ashamed of. The money we received from the Recovery Fund was paid to the RS account at the end of December of last year and imagine what the fund's director says, that he's afraid that he won't be able to spend that money. Imagine after 18 months when we say my people so we haven't even arranged some things, it's going to be too embarrassing, hope dies last and I deeply believe and I have to believe, I want to believe that the day will come when the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb will really begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u42982	Thank you, too. Mrs. Devereaux. Andreja Maric will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u43139	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today I'm going to talk about issues in primary health care. Yesterday I was talking more about dental medicine, today I'm going to focus on family medicine. But first, I will respond to the statement by HZZO director, our colleague, Dr. Lucian Vukelic, which he gave at a recent meeting of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I quote: “Fire 5 patients a day, what can I do? For a year they didn't do anything, they have a nurse administrator." So, this statement, in fact, deeply injured and professionally offended, demeaning and mocking the entire profession of family doctors and all family doctors and our colleagues were rightly offended and they rightly demanded and demanded an apology from Dr. The wolf, which on the sites of HZZO, makes you public. This statement, therefore made at the expense of family doctors, but also at the expense of hospital doctors, we listened to this committee session, we could react, something we didn't, a session lasted long, so this way I react in the sense that these statements are really incorrect because we all try to do our job and we try to contribute to the problems in the hospital system and primary health care system, and in all health care they solve together, so by consensus. What are the problems of family medicine? Although family medicine is more than 100 or 180 contacts a day, it has been called for unhappiness. During the pandemic they enabled patients to contact through several different inputs, e-mail, phone machine, Viber, with the purpose of discharging the phone so that they could use a telephone call to train patients and arrange for them to examine in the office or isolation. However, paradoxically they were called inaccessible and reluctant. In addition to physical examinations of patients daily responds to about 70 to 100 emails, they examine 20 to 30 cze results, daily vaccinations of not 5 people but 12 to 30 depending on how many vials they have received. They meet with insufficient and slow delivery of doses and a huge amount of administration. They have no administrators and their nurses are not employed as administrators although part of the day are actually forced as doctors themselves to do exactly that kind of administrative work. In the pandemic, family medicine doctors took part in the work of epidemiologists, advice on isolation, contact records, covid testing, repositories according to time options, and now vaccination. However, so far the work of a family doctor has not disappeared, they continue to do it with an increased burden of epidemic, which, of course, goes on the back of the hospital system. What they have seen for years as the biggest problem in doing their basic work is a huge administrative burden, from writing different instructions, notes and confirmations. The example of nebulosis is that the insured person is asking for confirmation because he uses diapers and has to hand over that certificate to the utility company to get a larger number of garbage bags. Then the services they could provide are not stimulated by low prices imposed by HZZO. When prescribing medicines, we all struggle together with HZZO, patients, primarys and colleagues from the hospital system because of the non-compliance of professional and HZZO guidelines. Furthermore, family medicine has been devastated by staff and organisationally poor solutions from the ministry's resolution. The problem of family medicine specialization needs to be addressed urgently. Croatia has committed itself to the EU by 2020. in family work only family medicine specialists, and in 2021, the situation is worse than 5 years ago, 750 family medicine doctors are over 60 years old, 170 older than 65, and they need an additional sister to take care of chronic patients, a administrator who would cover more offices, which I have repeatedly said is one of the solutions to group practice. It should be clear to all that by strengthening family medicine, we reduce health care costs significantly, we relieve expensive hospital systems, and thus achieve better health outcomes, and this should be continued. I'll personally tell myself I've been working for over 20 years. In the system, I know all the problems, all the disadvantages and all the advantages. What I don't know is that I'm asking other colleagues, and as a member of the Health Committee, I'm sure I'm going to work on it, and I'm going to put pressure on the fact that the more we talk, the more we finally take some sort of, some kind of solution constructive to this health system of ours. It is pathetic that we are hostages of different choices and that solutions are kept on the drawer and in the drawers of Prime Minister Plenkovic, and that should be the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u43140	Thank you, too. Mrs Grozdana Peric will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u43232	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, the circumstances in which we now live with the pandemic seem to be more bombarded and focused on negative news and relationships and there are more bad ones than the good ones, and there are many that are good. I'm an optimist in life, I believe in what's exact, and that's numbers. The latest data that came out of the State Statistics Institute said it was a state of employment. And despite the coronary crisis, the state of employment is extremely good. Not as much as we'd like, but it's over a million and 314 thousand people. The unemployed were 155,588 which was lower than the 12th month 2020 when they were also 159,800, and the average gross wage for February was 9,467 kuna, which is 0.7% higher compared to January despite the coronary crisis and the general pandemic. Since October 2016, when gross salary was 7.681 kuna, it is an increase of 1.966 kuna. The highest salary paid in February was thus in the pharmaceutical industry compared to January this year the average net salary paid was real and that was 7.038 kuna, which is more than $1,396 compared to October 2016. We should also note that the non-taxable income average per employee in February amounted to 633 kuna, when we remember that by amending the Tax Code and by the Income Tax Regulation, workers are allowed to be rewarded for the results of work, appropriate rewards, food costs, accommodation costs, kindergartens, etc. For employees then it is these 633 kunas in this period very significantly, and it increases significantly with the end of the year. Let us also remind ourselves that tax changes in the non-taxable part of income and tax rates also allowed our employees to have bigger than the net wage. Let us also remind that the state and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia paid more than 9 billion kuna to preserve jobs for employees and entrepreneurs, which is more than 12 billion in total with taxes that, or contributions that it had to pay. The same way that we look at it to try to save jobs, so here's the freshest example is exactly the one that happened with the shipbuilding, when you look at the saved shipbuilding in a way that is now in 3. In May, 850 people were employed, and 350 co-operatives where this industry branch should as well as all its long-term activities be based on market bases, then it is a guarantee that everything that is done from now on and in the future that we want a market-quality economy that will create additional jobs and produce significant incomes and higher incomes for both employees and pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u43233	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mr. Bozo Petrov to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. Is it still called the Independent Lists Bridge, right? And it's only writing the Bridge up. Bridge, good. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u43334	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to draw attention to a vulnerable group of people in our society and help them in this forest of daily information about local elections. And right here, I call on absolutely everything, all political parties, all the social actors to ignore their differences and help equally. HZZ according to the Law on the Croatian Register of Persons with Disabilities collects, processes, monitors the data of a group of people with autism spectrum disorder. I'll take the data from 2017, today only bigger in Croatia is registered 1925 persons with autism spectrum disorder, e.g. in Dubrovnik-Neretva County 62 people according to these age groups of fifths are older, at least a fifth of them are over 20 years old and, as I do not know, 22 725 people are registered throughout Croatia at that time, another 536 persons in Dubrovnik-Neretva County have damage to voice-speaking communication, etc., etc. It is also believed that certain additional diagnostic procedures in that group could identify more persons. Why am I telling you this? I took Dubrovnik-Neretva County, but I believe in most other counties the same thing. There are several different aids for these people, from one-time assistance, benefits for help and care, personal disability, but those who have experience, who have these people in their families or near their families, know that it's just a drop in the sea. If you want to diagnose this disorder, you need three characteristics. Social interaction disorder, communication disorder, repetitive behavior, and like this when said, it seems quite dry, neutral, without emotion, it doesn't touch you too much, you can't honestly imagine what these 3 items mean. But I'll read you one thing about how it sounds in real life and this is a true story, only the names aren't. Autism is a very complex disorder. Such individuals live in their world and are specific to sudden mood changes. In our case, my brother Ivan is the most difficult form of autism. Ever since he entered puberty, he's been very irritable and aggressive. Ivan is 140 kilos tall, 185 cm tall and 19 years old. Every day is a fight. Physical attacks on Mom and Dad, I don't even want to describe those scenarios because I don't want to disturb you. They're getting older and weaker, and he's getting stronger and stronger. I often think about the worst scenarios that can happen very easily, and that is why I want to run something and help my parents. Literally every hour, every day we live in fear and stress. That is why we are looking, especially for adult patients with autism, housing community, rehabilitation centre, rehabilitators, sensory pedagogues, working therapists will also be offered health care and care 0-24. There should be a sensor park in front of the building, a promenade, because they're not immobilized people. You all got this story on your email. All club representatives in HS, all political parties, the ministry and the government. I invite you to really forget the differences in these things and try to give as much of us as you can. I invite you to help Dubrovnik-Neretva County in this case because we are really far from the first center in Split, there is Rijeka, there is Zagreb, that is. Don't close your eyes and forget this life and this family because she's ours. Ours, because it's part of our lives, of our society, it's ours. Don't forget her, don't forget to answer her mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u43478	Mrs Natalija Martincevic will hold the position of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u43479	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Croatian forests are a state-owned company and a monopoly on the wood raw material market and thus Croatian forests are the only option for the purchase of raw materials and raw materials needed to develop and maintain production for all Croatian producers. And how do these Croatian forests do their jobs? So that they use their monopoliest position shamelessly. I will show this in a very concrete example of Pogaj from Varazdin County as one of our biggest exporters. The company had to fire 200 workers not long ago because Croatian forests have been systematically cutting quotas since the arrival of the new administration. In concrete figures, it looks like this, the Croatian Forests approved 38% less raw material quota for 2018-2020 compared to what they had rightly based on criteria. "Second Group" is a direct revenue of 211 million kuna, which has stopped the growth and development of this company that has been being built and developed for generations. On the first day of the term of office of the Croatian Forests "Pogaj Grupa" hired 680 employees at eight production sites in Croatia and because of this policy of the Croatian forests, the number fell to 550 workers in six locations. The company submitted, of course, a whole series of damage claims against the Croatian forests totalling 70 million kuna, and the culmination of such illegal and selective treatment of the Croatian forests took place this year when no company from Pogaj Group was included in the list of authorised customers. Later, the story came to light that the "Fire Group" could still receive annual contracts or raw materials, but on a small condition that it would give up the damage claims. This is just one concrete example from the county from which I come, abuse, manipulation and direct blackmail, but let us call this business policy the Croatian Forests after three years of the term of office brought a whole series of negative indicators to the entire wood-processing sector. Thus, the reduced raw materials quotas for finalists in 2020 fell by 20% compared to 2018 in the area of large buyers of contract quotas by 58% prior to the term of office to 46% in 2020, significantly reducing the state budget of all contracting customers by 40 million kuna per year. Total employment, this is extremely important, has been reduced by more than 1900 workers in the period from 2019 to 2020, three years of consecutive and unjust increase in raw materials prices has led to the processing and industry at the edge of labour cost-effectiveness calculations. Finally, such a customereletic distribution of raw materials makes the Croatian wood industry a productivity of EUR 36,000 per employee per year, while other EU countries generate revenues of at least EUR 87,000 in Poland per employee to as much as 95 in France. With this business policy of the Croatian forests, Croatia is becoming more and more a country of exporting raw materials and imports of cheap finished products. With these problems, the branch company has come to know everyone responsible, but unfortunately there are no results. I therefore call on all those responsible to be urgently involved in solving this problem, which leaves companies and people out of work, by the fact that the solutions are not complicated at all, by changing the management of the Croatian forests and introducing emergency order into the system. It's a job, above all, for the Minister of Agriculture. Vukkovic, for whom we are particularly pleased to have time in the campaign to support HNS candidates, also to her employees, newly employed special advisers at the Ministry of Agriculture, but it would be good to put in the tour of the visit to Velika Graba and offer a solution for 200 people who, on the one hand, have lost their jobs and salaries on the one hand because of the blatant and rudeness of the Croatian forests, and on the other hand, the Ministry of Agriculture's silence has run out of work and wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u43480	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46179	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, as announced yesterday, we will begin with the first point, which is: - Report on the state of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013-2019. The holder is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 39. The law on spatial planning. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, and by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property Darko Horvat, please. Dear Representative Brumnic wants a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46180	Dear Vice-President HS, I request a 10-minute break on behalf of the SDP Club in order to further consult how to access the analysis of this report. In fact, the law clearly states, and so did you. 39. The law on spatial arrangement that the report is given for a 4-year period, not for 7-year-olds as is the case here, so we are not sure whether this report is now given because it is 3.g. late to report or to cover up the fact how bad this government has been doing in recent years. The report was not given at the time because that time may have been unfortunate for HDZ because it was a pre-election time when it was to be given, so the data that would be seen from this report would appear in the wrong direction that this country is going. And all the things I'm saying right now are actually so we can look at another fact. When the president of HS is based on the article. 170. The Rules of Procedure rejected the proposal of the president of the state which was in accordance with the constitution, but the president of HS concluded that it was not in accordance with the law, I wonder how he now concluded that this proposal is in accordance with the law when the law clearly defines what should be done? So then I invite you to first look at the way in which this proposal comes before HS in accordance with the law that you have read yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46181	Thank you very much. Of course I'm gonna give you a break, and I think he's called and a respected representative, he's not, no, okay. Uh, I'll give you a break in accordance with article. 293.b., then we can proceed immediately. Here's Minister Darko Horvat. ... Look, I can't explain someone else's actions, and I can't claim it, so if the president of the assembly decided then, I don't think I can interpret something on his behalf and you're getting along with it, right? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46182	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, the Honorable Parliamentary Representatives and Parliamentary Representatives. So none of the reports, so this government does not work beyond any of the professional and thorough bases that are negotiated and negotiated and are the subject of the creation of certain expert groups formed by the government or formed by some of the acts that are not in the government's control. In the present document, I cited which all the sets of professional bases were included in 2019. The report in question is merely proof of the generality of the report in question based on the agreed and professional bases developed by the academic community, the NGOs, so one large set of documents on which this report was created and which, as well as this report, had or had a certain time delay. To be unspeakable or to enter with a semi-product in terms of verified data into one of these reports and to come before HS I think it would be unserious. After all the necessary analyses have been made and all the professional bases received by the expert team of the ministry have produced a report from 2019, I do not think that this report violates the relevant article of that law, and here we are after the meeting of the Government before HS to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46183	Thank you very much. We have, please remain Ministers here because we have more replicas on your exhibit. ... Let's not, let's not bench this one. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here it is, we have more replicas, the first respected representative of Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46184	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS Mr. Reiner, Mr. Secretary. I must admit that the report is well written, clear and concise, but I have a very specific question, I will quote you. The report shows that over 40,000 illegal buildings remain in the legal process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46185	Please just a little bit, just a little bit, ha, no al, ministers you've got the word, uh, you've stopped talking yourself, right, there's going to be a chance that this in, through the answers, there'll be opportunities through, you can every five minutes speak, etc., but you have to this, I think you stopped talking and the replicas have already been set up, right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46186	May Mr. Secretary return, please, Mr. President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46187	E... This one we have a few replicas. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46188	And please one seven seconds, Mr. President, Vice President HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46189	No problem, no problem, no worries, you'll get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46191	It's all right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46192	So, respected ministers, the report shows that over 40,000 illegal buildings remain in the legal process. Please state that it is often smaller residential buildings, constructions or auxiliary buildings that have been for a long time and represent the sole home of the owner. The reasons for the rejected, rejected legal requirements are that individuals gave up the legislation because they were unable to pay projects and fees. You're saying that social cases, residents of older age, unemployed, citizens without income. What will be the fate of these 40,000 objects to the Croatian public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46193	Thank you. The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46194	Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, in the report in question, as I have also mentioned, very taxingly, in detail, the data of the situation found in the space were structured at the end of 2019. I'll remind you that only in a few iterations had the opportunity and gave the opportunity to have non-existent buildings mutilated in terms of legalization. All those who have shown this intention and a large part of them have applied only to get in line waiting for their manual number and one day an opportunity to do so. A large number of these requirements are incomplete, a large number of these requirements have been filed and without any concrete intention to repair the building or building in question and where the documentation is complete, a large part of such facilities has been legalised and it is today or is considered in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46195	Thank you. Next replica, Honorable Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46196	Thank you very much. Minister, when a representative asks you a question, don't turn your back on him, as you have done to your colleagues, it's purely out of courtesy. I would just tell you that space is the most important thing we have because in the Republic of Croatia we have a problem, here I have repeatedly set up the behavior of teleoperators that set base stations wherever they think they're breaking not only regulations but they don't do it in other EU countries where they need construction permits and they break these minimum conditions in simple buildings. What did you do about it? We have an example in my Sinj na Radosic, in the centre of Sinj on the bakery and so on in many other cities. And what have you done about the landowners and the cadastres where we have a problem hugely regarding the investment, construction and development of our space?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46197	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46198	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So in the Republic of Croatia, there is a clear rule of conduct in which an act on the right of construction is obtained. In order to get it, the situation in the space or the procedure in question must be consistent with the space-plan documentation. Sometimes in that lowest lere, the generator of such a space-plan document is municipalities or cities. I don't think I have any facilities at this point, especially not infrastructures that have been built past construction permits in recent years, and when we match the intensity that we want a new investment cycle, then this new investment cycle needs some services to happen because if you want a green field investment, which comes from the area of our neighbouring countries where such services [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Entrepreneurs have, then it's normal to attract investors in a way [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much, Minister.]] to provide them with all such resources. [[Intruder Reiner: Ministers, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46199	Thank you, Minister. Please stick to the time. Representative Bulj asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46200	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Bridge Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break. Your Honor, you are not answering the question. One of the greatest and most important things is our space to develop. We have a problem of landowners and cadastres, inequality, over-complication. You said in 2018 that in the Island Law, it would be settled on islands, you were talking about membership, our agricultural land is unprocessed for these reasons because it cannot be reached by the owner because we have not solved this problem. You promised it, this government promised it, absolutely did nothing. We have an uncontrollable installation of teleoperator infrastructure that only happens in the EU and even in Europe in a way that sets their base stations on antenna pillars, wherever they think of social institutions, hospitals, kindergartens, people under the window, I can prove to you, here on Radosic, 6 times the construction inspection... It hasn't been removed, which means it's being threatened in space and our health and these teleopers have the biggest profit right in the Republic of Croatia, they have a margin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a concrete problem, we have a concreteization of one of our marine goods, and that's uncontrollable, and that's our gold and our value. When we start with Makarska and then you can look at it and you'll see that the baggers are going through wherever they think of it, and it's not good. At this point, we also have enrolled routes, i.e. in the space drawn example of roads. Here in my Sinj we have bypasses plotted for 20 years, where these trails are 150 meters wide, nothing is built and these villages and these owners can't develop these villages and their children can't survive because that space is busy and the state is doing nothing. Any level of road or similar infrastructure projects. It means so much insecure in space, that investors simply can't come, invest and people can't survive in that area. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46201	Thank you very much. Stanku requested on behalf of the HDZ club and respected representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46202	... I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I am looking for a break to show again about the document submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which shows the situation in the area from 2013 to 2019. [[Specially enabled.]] We hold in the club of representatives that the document is comprehensive, that it is complete, that it gives us representatives insight into all activities in the area in Croatia over the past 7 years. What is important to highlight from the aspect of spatial planning defining the behaviour in space, and what this document confirms is that in the meantime, all strategic documents have been adopted which, above all, the spatial development strategy adopted by this Assembly and which we have prescribed the conduct of the state administration, the government, of the entire economic sector in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. What is important from the aspect of spatial arrangement is that all units of local and regional self-government have adopted their spatial planning documents in accordance with the laws and that at the moment more than 3500 spatial plans are in force in the Republic of Croatia. This is important in order to encourage investment in Croatia through their realization, and this is the importance and value of such a document to warn us of the opportunities on the one hand and the threats that occur in the space unless these same spatial planning documents are respected. And that is why it is very important that both through the strategy and after the strategy we have passed all the basic laws and laws on spatial planning and the Law on Construction and the Law on Construction Inspection as fundamental laws to which we will act and safeguard this same space. So I asked for a break to say that this report is good, comprehensive and that we propose that it be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46203	Thank you very much. Of course I'll take a break but in accordance with Article 293b. We will continue to work, so we will, and now the respected representative Kujundzic has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46204	Thank the chairman, here I am, injured Article 238, colleague Bacic insults Parliamentarian intelligence. We can talk about space and everything that's been done in a paper sense. The only key relevant number of all policies of the Republic of Croatia to date is that, according to estimates in 2019, there are slightly more than 4 million inhabitants in Croatia, which means that 400,000 of us are less. The list I'm afraid of has been delayed, I'm afraid it's shown that there are about 3 million of us, and 700 of us have been measuring the policies of both HDZ and SDP in the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46205	Thank you, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. And please, let's not abuse today the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you nicely. Uh, we have a replica of the esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46206	Thank you. The respected ministers in one part of the report show that a significant part of the agricultural area is not used for the cultivation of agricultural cultures. I must tell you that this situation is extremely dramatic in Istria, given that we have megalomanic land parcels of agricultural areas where 54 smaller agricultural parcels are formed in one example of a large agricultural plot. What is the purpose of such a plot, we don't want to go with presummation but we're afraid it's not for the cultivation of agricultural cultures, but it's a good polygon for future illegal construction. We appeal to you ministers, to the Ministry of Agriculture, to the State Geodetic Authority to find ways to solve such a problem because it will not be good for our future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46207	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46208	Your Honor, Vice President. I would like to thank the honourable Parliamentarians for asking. The other day I was here with the prime minister of the Croatian government at the presentation of the National Resistance and Recovery Programme. There have been various discussions, but what is potent in that document you have seen and that you have read, therefore the subject and term of the commission that has long, long gone to find in a strategic document of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a large financial source that is or is preparing to enter into such an undertaking or procedure, is one of the intentions of receiving primarily agricultural land to give our farmers and those who remain on their own, on their own, on their agricultural land an opportunity in a competitive segment and give them the opportunity to enter the market on that market and survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46209	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46210	The Honorable Minister is quite clear what you have to brag about in this report when your opening statement lasted 2 minutes, but the main thing you said in your opening statement to this illegal report is as you say you didn't want to give half the reports. This is not a semi-report, this report clearly shows that this government is a semi-product like you said because delays that occur from 3-4 years in reporting, not making decisions based on the conclusions made in the previous report, non-resolvement of the problem, something has now told you about the predecessor of agricultural land and in fact the potentials that this country has, rather than using in, because of not making decisions this government is what the problem is. What do you have to say to that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46211	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46212	Well the answer to your question is very clear and simple. So I'm not here to brag or praise the government. I'm here to present to you a report for which I almost didn't get a chance because you called it illegal, and we don't think it is, and if you took a few minutes and read it, then, like a colleague, you'd ask a specific question, not debate for no reason, and in particular, don't ask questions that have nothing to do with the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46213	The next replica of a respected representative, say, a colleague of Brumnic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46214	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament was injured in Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by handing over this report, Article 136, 236, 238, was injured because One and the other [[/Intruder: Which one at the end?]] I apologize, you're in my word, but it's possible to hurt more articles of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Yes, well you numbered 3 that's why this one.]] And as for reading the report, read only the conclusions I read. The huge potential in agriculture, the huge potential in the economy, and that potential is now bigger than it was 4 years ago, and that's the problem. It's not the work of this government. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46215	Thank you very much. That's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's what you're aware of, so I have to give you a heads-up. It's, it's a pardon replica typical, and what you were saying wasn't right or question, you got an answer that was appropriate to do so. You can't expect you to say some things, and if someone else turns just another cheek, it can't be expected it's real in life like that. Here's my colleague Brumnic. What's his rules of procedure now?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46216	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, you have violated the Rules of Procedure. 238, by practically urging the proposing and the others who are speaking in this assembly to speak falsely. I don't object to the minister or anyone answering politically what I said, but I object to him saying the lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46217	Yes, you're aware that it's not a breach of the rules of procedure. I am your foundation. In 240th century, I give the warning by taking away the word. It's a formal matter, but the next thing you know, it's taking a word out until the end of the debate on this subject, so I have to warn you about it. Dear Representative Barbaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46218	I thank the Vice President of HS, Your Honor. BiH is a neighbouring friendly state in the public space of the Republic of Croatia most unfortunately is mentioned for the sake of political opposition and the position of the Croatian people in BiH. However, if we look at the position of the Republic of Croatia, or BiH, thousands of kilometres of borders, clearly result in certain restrictions in planning space in the Republic of Croatia and BiH, especially in certain infrastructure projects, and to the use and management and protection of water, in general environmental protection. Do you agree that it is necessary to turn these restrictions into advantages as is the case with the VC Ploche-Sarajevo-Osjek-Budapest project, which is of interest to both countries, and will certainly contribute to stronger economic and any other co-operation between the two countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46219	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46220	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I'd like to thank the Parliamentarian for asking. I can fully agree with your findings, I can also recognize and not recognize the question, but what is the intensity of the response in 2017. This High House in Parliament adopted the Spatial Arrangement Strategy in accordance with this strategic document in depth all the necessary documents that must be harmonised at certain levels, as well as strategic documents that are at this time or at the stage of production or preparation, or in the final phase of the development and preparation of a broader debate on this topic, are in favour of creating a more potent business environment and providing potential investors with infrastructure such as is not only desirable but it is necessary for the Croatian economy to receive certain comparative advantages through the infrastructure development segment such as the same entrepreneurs do not have in our environment or our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46221	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the next respected representative of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46222	Thank you. Dear Minister. It's clear that space should be protected, so we need spatial-planning documentation, but space is best protected by humans. And colleague Kujundzic opened the story that we are not really protecting our space, that our space is threatened because you moved, not us, because you moved people and we have this problem in Slavonia, we have in Dalmatia Zagora, we have in Lica, we have in Gorski Kotar, we have in our entire country. And what do you from the government tell us, or what do you tell our diaspora people? Now you have a problem coming from Dublin, from Frankfurt to Zagreb to fix your teeth as Minister Maric says at a meeting of the Health Committee. What do you want, to end every relationship with your country, is that what you want? Do you want them to leave with their families so we don't have any more chance of getting them back? .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46223	Thank you very much. Answer, Your Honor, Minister Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46224	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Parliamentarian, you have been a parliamentary representative for a long time, you were here in 2018, 2019, you witnessed or were first a constructive critic and I thank you for that, after which your constructive criticisms ended with the growth of the Republic of Croatia on the various scales which Europe and the world sees what is happening in Croatia. Covid couldn't project, the earthquake couldn't project and there wasn't any in 2020. It would again be the year of Croatia's jump on the working business scale on the scale of the economic world economic forum, on the Desi index and so on. It is... that Croatia goes step by step forward. Can't it go any faster? And you and I will agree that it has to move faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46225	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. So we're going to have a debate, I'm opening a debate, and the first one will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Most Honored Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46226	Thank you very much. The people who are following this, i.e. Our citizens are as aware as we are that space is the most important thing, but space without people, poor management of space without people is actually losing that space. And today we have two-thirds of Croatia empty because of the disastrous management of this space, these resources and potentials. And from this report, which is well done, is visible, this report says bad policies, catastrophic policies have led to empty space. The space that should be perspective that has huge potential, which has resources, two-thirds of Croatia is literally empty in all segments. I can only say in person, when we mention agricultural land that because of catastrophic management, i.e. the legal frameworks, due to the doubling of land, catastra and for all that is stated in this space, are not being processed today. It's run as agricultural land, but we have 700 thousand acres of unprocessed agricultural land. So this is one complex question, too, when I mentioned the behavior of teleoperators in the Republic, which only in the Republic of Croatia does not need a building permit, but violates these minimum spaces, simple building regulations, it's harder for you today, let's say, to expand a little balcony, to parentheses than to set up a base station that is being set up wherever they think of it. But only in Croatia, Minister. Only in Croatia. As a result, I have also given legislative changes and past mandates and this mandate for teleopers to behave in the Republic of Croatia as they do in countries where they come from, that their needs are building permits and because of this unhappiness and negligence, the highest profits of teleopers are in the Republic, and we have the worst signal, and we are the first to corruption. The worst, the worst signal is in the Republic of Croatia. And we don't have savings, Minister, on that matter. It's our space. Here's an example of Radosic at Sinj where 6, 7 times already a construction inspection, says that the base station is set up to a man, a returner from Australia, 10 meters from home. Also, at the centre of my town of Sinj, a base station was installed on a bakery chimney. In the center of Sinj, in hospitals, in church bells. It's where they come up with it, but that's all they do in the Republic of Croatia. It's not mine, that I'm gonna have someone, like the teleoperators said, return to the Stone Age, no, but let the teleopers behave like they do in their own countries and nothing less. Because we are EU members too, and we are not the EU's exploitation field and its officials, and we cannot allow that. I must mention, here I said that space is very important, and when you say local self-government and spatial plans or higher rank or local self-government, there must be spaces that will be developmental. I repeat another example of the Sinja bypass. It has been drawn for 25 years through a srid of villages that cannot develop now because it covers 150 meters. Cover the course. It costs 20 years or whoever pays for damage or has any obligation in that space, according to those people whose land is occupied, their children cannot build in that area, they must go to other areas and so many questions. As far as the environment is concerned, this is also the environment, space is the environment. We have harmful projects we've been pushing, like. The lens where the beat-up money on it... we had to protect a certain space in their green policies, which is emphasized by the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the government and the EU highlight green policies, sustainable development, however, the Centre for Waste Management Lečevica is an imposed project in which 30 million kuna has been beaten, and nothing has been done and now we have a problem with waste management in the Split-Dalmatia County, but also in other counties where we have.../incomprehensible/... a catastrophic way means waste management, and waste should be, we have good examples on the island of Krk, which is a professor... His project is to be brought into that phase that we have jobs today, waste is not garbage but jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Both in Zagreb and in other.../incomprehensible/... and in my Dalmatian Zagorje, we have a problem that from Vrgorec from a municipal dump which has the same conditions as in Sinj, you intended to transport garbage 150 km. And to do harm means to the tributaries of the river Cetina and Cetina itself. We have a problem, a huge space, we're tribbing development projects, not projects, let's say, I don't know, here, today we have, if we're talking about space, I still think that Sinj, the cetin end, is the most perspective area of... To Prelaka. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the very vicinity of Split, the Split swimming pool, the Kaštelan swimming pool, of Omis has been rebuilt. Make that fast road, not do something to Wolfie, there's no way to get to a tunnel, there's nothing to invest in, basically millions, to some drills owned by Sanaders or not who. We've got a problem, we've mentioned the meaning of land and catastra. And investors or... And that's not settled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means property-legal, but it can't do it without the state to get rid of it. Eventually, my Dalmatian Zagora, inherited, when someone, it was so, it was not solved in people, in people's deaths, the heirs got it because they agreed to divide the country and it wasn't settled. And of course, young people leave because they can't build their own home in these areas, they can't use agricultural land. The island law, for example, on the islands you also said that you would solve this problem. One big problem is, let's say, exploitation fields, my Cetin region in Sinj each village gets a bit of an exploitation field that's damaged by nature, I know we're trying to master our raw materials, mineral raw materials. But it can't happen that every few hundred meters is employed by a miner and agricultural land, when threatened, for example. We need to see it in the area of Sinj and where someone comes up with it. So we need to be, first of all, using that space to develop. You would once again point out, especially this problem in a space where people can't survive in that space, which is the policies my colleagues have said. So if we don't have people in that space, if we don't have development strategies, if we don't have investors to come, to invest in the Republic, I've talked to a number of investors, I've been in Munich with people, I've talked to our owners who have the will, mostly down from my neighborhood to come and invest. However, there is no solution in the space to what the tribune is, it is not solved because there is a concern of politics and a state that could solve these problems in space. And harmful projects, any energy, either, we have potential, and that potential has to be exclusively for a man to survive in that area. Not an example of what was the wind power plants that happened to Krsh-Pared to devastate space. It was a political move between the SDSS and HDZ together, they don't care about these people, which cost our people. We have a number of harmful projects, we have to protect our, our potential. In order to preserve the environment and our potential, we have today's most important potential, it's agricultural land, and even more potential is our water, the drinking water that's on the stock market today as well as oil. We can't build harmful projects, various thermal power plants on Peru as planned, various projects, so we have to guard that potential. We have huge potential. We have a problem with concreteization on the Adriatic. Here's an example in Makarska that's a huge problem, people are opposed, they're deprived of their right, it's not private, so we can concreteize it. We will have an example of other Mediterranean countries that have concreteized their beaches. We have to preserve them, it's ours, it's the potential of all of us. That's why we have to keep that space safe. This report lists all the problems we have rightly, but if we don't preserve space and leave space without people, then we don't have a country. It's the state. We don't have a country without each other, and we're losing everything a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46227	Thank you very much. He will now speak on behalf of the promoter, Honorable Minister Darko Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46228	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Parliamentary Representatives and Parliamentary Representatives. What pleases me, especially from the opposition round of parliamentary representatives, is that the report is correct, accurate, detailed and professionally done. For that, thank you, to all those who have read the report and to all who have found any problems generated by those data that we have put into the report. So, the report is not self-loving, the report is not thanking or thanking, the report is a real state of space in the Republic of Croatia as of 2019. In front of you there is a report on the situation in space, so the document which informs the government, HS and the professional and wider public about spatial development in the Republic of Croatia based on analysis and evaluation of the basic spatial structure of spatial development trends, protection and use of particularly valuable spaces, implementation of strategic and other spatial planning documents, and institutional development in the area of spatial planning. The obligation to draw up a report on the situation in the area as we have already stated several times in today's debate has been established by the current Law on Spatial Planning, and on a proposal by the Government to discuss it HS and that is why we are here today. This report covers the period from 2013 to 2019. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The texts and analyses from the current spatial development strategy of the Republic of Croatia were used in its production, which was accepted in this place in 2017, publicly available and obtained data from ministries and other institutions, the Office for Spatial Planning, County and the City of Zagreb, as well as data from adopted sectoral documents. Data from spatial plans and information system of spatial arrangement developed by the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, their own records, professional and scientific bases and works and other publicly available data sources have been included and analysed. For the purposes of drawing up the relevant report before you today, a professional basis for the social economic development of the Republic of Croatia in the period 2013-'17, the situation, trends, challenges and opportunities for spatial development has been developed. The report shall be determined by reference to the previous report on the valid spatial plans of all levels and other strategic, development, planning and programming documents and indicators. Prioritically, an analysis of the situation and changes in space that arise under the influence of different social processes with a valid or less direct impact on space shows identified problems, proposes solutions to improve the situation, and points to possibilities for further orientations of spatial development, as well as several discussions that we had the opportunity to hear here in the assembly today. The additional emphasis is placed on the foundations which specifically marked or marked the spatial arrangement between 2013 and 2019, such as a new package of laws in the area of spatial planning, construction and construction inspection, development and implementation of the spatial planning information system, and the intensive process of law-making of illegally built buildings. And what in this exhibit of five minutes I want to clearly apostrophe. Respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, the spatial arrangement strategy as a roof document is also the basis for the starting point, but spatial plans and procedures in space define the original municipalities and cities. Whether the bypass of the city of Sinj needs or not is decided not by the government, but by the people living in the city of Sinj. This also means for every city and municipality that, in accordance with the rules of conduct of defined laws governing spatial planning, applies to all parts of the Republic of Croatia, to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia and to every investor who wants to come and invest in the territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46229	Thank you, we have, remain Minister, have a few replicas on your exposure. He's the first one to represent Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46230	Thank you very much. Ministers, roads and roads of state importance are drawn up by higher plans, so local self-government cannot change certain things by its own spatial plans because they are defined, I repeat, higher plans, mostly roads of national importance, a detour which has been drawn there for 20 years and which covers 150 m, so the entire villages are, simply can't build and nobody is doing anything, nor is it built, nor is it obviously planned to build after 20 years. It is very important to us that in this area that we have, which is God's day, I will now say for the Cetina region, but also for the entire Republic, resources and potentials must be subjected to spatial plans, development and sustainable development, I repeat, not that people are moving out. At this point you can see the results, I'm not talking about this report that's correct, I said it's correct, but it's about these potentials and resources and whether you're for man or against man.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46231	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46232	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. And in one part of your replica, I can agree. So it's our desire and our intention and we've begun our activities on the development of the National Space Plan. I will remember that a few years ago in this House we passed the Strategic Investments Act for the Republic of Croatia and what we are sure of, very few strategic projects can be resolved if that national plan will not be resolved. This national plan will come very soon alone in a public debate, you will have it as well as this report, the opportunity to see and read it, and I hope that in a constructive debate, we will discuss the elements of this spatial plan in this way in this High House of the Croatian Parliament and discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46233	Replica of Honored Representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, the report is correct and we all agree but the goal of each report is not only to give the correct state what has been done but what will be done with the spatial potential of the Republic of Croatia because how to actually bring back our evicted citizens and prevent them from moving away because otherwise we will have a beautiful country of Croatia without our beautiful citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46235	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46236	Thank you, Your Honor. I thank you, honourable parliamentary MPs for the matter. So, the report in question through the conclusions that I had the opportunity to hear that even these conclusions some parliamentary representatives read, whether they like them or not, but through these conclusions there is also a perspective in which what is potential, turns from potential to something concrete. But given the planned space, given the authority of municipalities, cities, counties and national authorities, I will only remind you that at this time we would return or invite investors to the territory of the Republic of Croatia, according to spatial-planned documentation, we have over 420 entrepreneurial oasis that are prepared and fully infrastructured.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46237	The replica of the respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46238	Dear Minister, on the trail of the very positive intensities I see you are taking to the point that the situation in the space is advanced, the center, I would suggest to you, and probably you are also, I know from which middle you come from, from Međimurje, the suggestion that we should also commit ourselves to this first step, the lowest, at global national level, you have brought strategic plans, you are going towards the fixation of the situation, but that we are going to launch that commendable initiative at local levels, and sometimes a few years ago, I gave 200 kn and my oven and the vineyard I solved in the Varazdinske Toplice, there were three witnesses, neighbors, the end of the story. Done on 1/1, we need this in Croatia, Minister. You pay for that if you need to go from the level of government, the European funds encourage it, so let's get out of it and let's not think about what kind of space programs we haven't figured out where we live, who owns it, who owns it, let's work it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46239	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46240	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor, MP. The intensity is the same. And you, as a parliamentary representative and me as a minister, and my closest associates and all employees and employees of the Ministry of Space Planning, Construction and State Property, and through some other segments, not through this report, are doing exactly that and the source that we will be able to accelerate this process, are visible in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme and in what will come here very quickly before you, and this is the proposal of the VFO and other sources that are available to us today through the various programmes Europe offers, and only from us to the municipal to national level depends on how quickly we will do exactly what your and my wish is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46241	The next replica of the respected representative Pavic. Željko Pavića, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46242	Dear Minister, we have really in that report a lot of data, what bothers me and what I think is a legitimate objection, that with some data you stopped in 2017, with some of you stopped in 2018, unfortunately, when I tried to do a report analysis and when I tried to get to the portals of the Croatian Environment Agency, unfortunately that portal or maps on that portal are not interactive, we get to, say, protected areas or bird habitats, then we slip into an area where we can't get information about that area. So we have a lot of trouble getting information. To get some information, we need to go through a lot of documents we're looking for online with the report you sent us. So, first these are.../incomprehensible/... with some documents or data in 2017 with some in 2018, and second that these data are no longer available on the portals, we can no longer monitor them at all, in any way Even if he had fresh data... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46243	The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46244	Thank you, dear Vice President. I thank the MP for the constructive question, and I have nothing to deny. So, if I were looking for an alibi that I'm not asking for, which is why this report wasn't in front of this high house six months ago or nine months ago, so that we don't discuss the legality of this report, me, my associates, and everyone we hired, we had the same problem that you listed here, but we sublimed all that information into one document, we put it at our disposal and we're behind it with the credibility of the sources and analysis that are in this report, including the conclusions that we are proposing in which way and which amendments and amendments to the legislative framework can turn this report into a good strategic document. in the segment of the correction of strategy and spatial development and some other strategies [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which must change [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] to make Croatia easier, faster and better treated. [[Intruder: Minister, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46245	Minister, please, we must all stick to the time of this next replica of the respected representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46246	Thank you. Two things I'd like to draw attention to. In the report we have data relating to 2018 on CO2 emissions, however, we do not have a previous period and we do not have the beginning and end of the reporting period itself. And far from being able to dispute the absolute data contained in the report itself, but we do not see from that report that trend that is related to the start of the reporting period and the end of the reporting period to see a trend that is related, for example. for emissions, for CO2 emissions. And the fact is that it is also mentioned that local plans, so cities and municipalities are the cornerstones of spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia, but you also mentioned that we have the Strategic Investments Act, so we have LNG at sea, not on land as predicted by the local community. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46247	Dear Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46248	So I'll go back to one sentence I already said. A few years ago, we know exactly when the Strategic Projects Act was passed, strategic investment, something needed by the state to be recognizable, to be found on maps on which some other developed countries and such projects are usually stuck locally. In order to make them more efficient and much, much faster to implement them, and from a report in which we have identified obstacles, we also turn it into rules of conduct in order for such projects to occur, we will have to make a national spatial plan in accordance with the spatial development strategy where some steps will not violently but in an agreed way, avoid and overrun, and in order to reduce some 7 or 9 years to a year and two in the realisation of the investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46249	Thank you very much, Minister. Here's the next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected secretary of state with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are, at the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support the Report on the State of the Republic of Croatia from 2013 to 2019, which includes a period of 7 years. Looking for a break half an hour ago, I gave the main indications why and in what way we want and we want to accept this report which I said was comprehensive, that it is comprehensive, that it shows all the activities that the Government or the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done in the state space, the activities of all other public authorities, numerous economic operators, determines what is the situation in the space and when environmental protection is in question, natural wealth, shows certain demographic indicators, indicates certain economic movements. So all those who are really interested in how and how Croatia has handled space in the past seven years can really read from this report. What seems important to me to mention when we talk about the state of affairs report, that is that in the meantime we have brought in 3 and perhaps the most important documents of the strategy which define the conduct in the space and which 3 documents marked this period, and perhaps that is why we are discussing the report for 7 years, and not how the article of the law, Article 39 of the Law on Spatial Planning, was foreseen for the report to be discussed after 4 years. Obviously, the government wanted to show with this document in a certain way how much these 3 documents were strategic about which I'm going to say something about success, which they realized, how many they were done, and then we have a more complete report on the situation in the area on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the realisation of these 3 documents. So, the first document, the most important document is the Strategy for the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which we brought here in the Assembly of 2017, and that same year we also brought the Strategy for Environmental Protection and the Action Plan for Environmental Protection in Croatia, and the third document is the Strategy for State Property Management. And with these three strategic documents we have defined in the global principle and action, but on the one hand as a fundamental document for the adoption of legal acts that stem from these strategies which laws should be on the track of what HS has adopted now these three strategies. When I first talk about the Strategy for Environmental Protection, I must say that the basis of this strategy was our decision to declare Nature 2000 where we are, and that may be a message to all those who say that Croatia is not taking good care of its space, that through the Nature project we practically protected 37% of the Republic of Croatia with more degree of protection than those most protected spaces to those less protected, but in any case those 37% of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about land, and when we talk about the sea, it's about 16.2%. On the one hand, this keeps space and it is not controversial, but on the other hand, in front of Croatia, before investing in economic projects, infrastructure projects, energy projects also requires where and where more obligations to conduct new environmental impact studies, new different thinking. This may in some ways slow down certain projects, but between one side of the desire for development in Croatia and on the other hand, we need to find this balance, this balance of sustainable development. And that is why I believe that this strategy is good, it is, in a certain way, with such a large percentage of the conservation of the environment of declaring certain areas protected by certain areas slows down certain growth, development, but on the other hand, it keeps space, and we as a country that is an EU member in this way have been identified and this is very much read in this report. The second is the strategy I said was the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which prescribes action in space, a fundamental act without which a regulated state cannot function. We discussed this strategy here in HS, we discussed all the starting points with which it defines the adoption of all legal acts, the adoption of spatial-planned documentation, and it is very important, it should be pointed out that in Croatia there are over 3300 spatial plans, and these plans today lead to the fact that there are no units of local self-government that are not covered by their basic spatial-planned document, so 555 and 21 other regional spatial planning, and on the other hand over 2700, it seems to me that the plans of the lower order have been adopted, which clearly sends us a message that we have defined the spatial-plan criteria how and in which way we will act in Croatia, and this is very important. Through this measure, we have sent messages on the need for a new demographic policy in Croatia, we have defined the basic transport corridors that connect to the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which I must also say when I am listening here today to criticism on the account of this government, which in this way sent the document to HS, to repeat that one of the most important strategic documents in Croatia, I said earlier mentioned the Strategy of Spatial Planning, the Strategy of Transport Development of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was managed by Mr. Zoran Milanović, adopted in 17 seconds by Mr. Zoran Milanovic, and that HS had never seen it. And we're saying about all these strategic documents here at HS we discussed. So with this strategy, we have shown very much how and how we view the operation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. What is more important to say, this is that in the meantime we have passed all strategic documents and the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Construction and the Law on Construction Inspection, we have passed a number of other laws defining and informing the entire bank, if I may say so, of the data arranged in space, the national infrastructure of spatial data. So, all the strategic documents that Croatia needed to bring, we passed all the laws and this report is highly prescribed. But there's no need to talk about what's written here, what's written in this report, and it's really comprehensive, and I'd be in these past two minutes that I've been left with about what's ahead of us and what the government needs to do and what I think we in the counsel club keep repeating and insisting on. We believe that it is time for the Government to refer to the HS as soon as possible the state plan of spatial development, which is a basic document, and we need to get to HS as soon as possible in order to facilitate the numerous investments and actions of units of regional and local self-government, to define basic strategic national projects, projects of national importance, and this is very important to bring about this state spatial development plan. The other two documents that are important, especially for the development of the economy, or if you want the coastal Croatia, are two strategic documents, the state plan states in the Law of the Protected Ecological Fisheries Belt, so when Mr. Ministers comes up with the first novel of that law, we need to change it, given that HS has declared an exclusive economic belt, and then that provision, which is prescribed by law, that a state plan of protected ecological fishing area, space, the belt, we actually need to change into a state plan of the exclusive economic belt, is a very important thing and a state plan of epicontinental development. These are the three important documents brought before the government by HS. And something that numerous units of local self-government expect, especially those that have created a new cadastrian measurement, is the fact that we need to go into the adoption of a regulation on the creation of spatial plans of a new generation, which many individuals say that they have that possibility, and we need to strive to have everything necessary to implement and bring that rule to the level of government. And the fourth thing that I think should be mentioned here is the need, and I think that the State Geodetic Administration has made a proposal, or a draft programme proposal, a multi-annual programme to make cadastral measurements of the construction area in the Republic of Croatia. This Plan shows that in Croatia there are about 500 and something, 550,000 hectares of land defined by spatial-planned documents I don't have time, so I'm going to have an individual discussion later, but... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] but that you should bring that multi-year programme in as soon as possible. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46251	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Franco Vidovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46252	No, it's going I haven't started talking yet. So, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Report on the State of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013-2019. The last report presented in HS is that for the period 2008-2013 and right at the beginning, we at the SDP Club have a grudge against the period which the Report includes. Therefore, the obligation to draw up the Report on the State of the room has been established by the Law on Spatial Planning and, under that Law, the Report should and should be given every 4 years. This report is in front of us for a period of six years. In addition, this Report includes the work of as many as 3 governments of the Republic of Croatia, and the 4th is presenting it, and it is difficult to finally figure out who did what. But who did what he did in that time is even less important because basically the total results are not good. Given that the report is quite extensive, it is not possible in 10 minutes of discussion to say everything that should be said, but the most important details can still be mentioned by not entering them too much. Only the report is multidisciplinary and contains a view, not only of the situation in space but also of the development of regional and local self-government, the effects of space on society and society in space, the development of the economy, entrepreneurship, agriculture, the movements of demographic indicators and the methodology used for such a comprehensive report, we really have no objection and we think that the report is quite objective. But having no objection to the methodology does not mean that we are satisfied with the situation in the area, especially with the development of agriculture, tourism, demographic indicators, etc. Not even after 8 years of passing laws in the area of spatial planning and practically introducing a new system of building spatial-planned documentation, had this system in practice. The wish was, if I'm not mistaken, that every plot in the Republic of Croatia would be marked for purpose and that such information would be available to the citizens. The wish was for the Republic of Croatia to have its own spatial plan to define key strategic interests and points that would then be branched towards the county and local self-government units. We understand that to carry out this work requires work and work, including time, but 8 years is still a reasonable time frame in which this should have been available. Unfortunately not. Then, a sentence in the Report that sounds devastating when it comes to agriculture. The used agricultural area moves about a million and a half hectares, which accounts for 27% of land territory and then the disputed part. A significant part of the agricultural area is not used for farming crops, which represents a great potential for a significant increase in agricultural production, both for food and non-food purposes. And it's good that we have potential, and that sounds great at first, if we didn't know that this is a statement about the potential that's been repeating for years, and what's in the next data. According to the latest available data in the period 2013-2016, The Republic of Croatia notes a decrease in the number of agricultural holdings by 14.6% and a slight decrease in total used agricultural area to something around a million and a half hectares. There are other data that sublimely mean only one thing, our agriculture is in stagnation and decline, and the potential with this kind of agricultural policy remains only the potential that will even grow on the basis of indicators, but that's not good news because in nature it means that there will be a further drop in the used agricultural areas, so such areas will go to potential. In addition, for some 30 years, we have been talking about the accumulation of agricultural land, perhaps changing the Law on Heritage, when it comes to agricultural land. Only in Dalmatia do you have a sea plot on which the formal heirs have long been evicted and the good part does not even know the addresses, and without their consent it is not possible for other heirs to such a plot to be put into service. To this day, we haven't made a single move on these issues. Until Croatia respects its own embossed, air-conditioned, spatial differences that exist between them, for example. Slavonia and Dalmatia, so far our agriculture will not advance. What is in Slavonia is a small plot of 0.5 hectares, in Dalmatia is rich and there are no such parcels too much. The only person who has such parcels owned is the Republic of Croatia, but the legislation regarding the concession of such land is so complex and complicated, that people who want to deal with agriculture are reluctant to engage in these activities. The country's hectare in Dalmatia is not the same as a hectare in Slavonia. In Slavonia, the whole hectare is a fertile land, in Dalmatia even on the best surfaces, that hectare contains 20 or 30% of the infertile debris. And that only agriculture is in trouble, it's a lot, but it's in a problem and entrepreneurship that records a negative trend in the number of active societies and crafts. There is also a problem with tourism, however, not according to this report but in the condition of today, when Covid is devastated by the crisis. Basically, according to this Report, all branches have a strong perspective, or potential, as we like to write and practically bad present and not better past. As for space-plan regulation, regardless of the changes we have made in 2014, the system is still slow in law and trom. And it's slow and trom because we don't respect the observed system failures, so you have side 45. Reports in the conclusions argue that there is no need to plan additional construction areas in the Republic of Croatia, but that it should seek to use and bring in the purpose of already planned construction areas, or redistribute them according to development plans. And that sounds logical, but on page 135-136, we're talking about amendments to the Spatial Regulation Act of 2018 which extended the deadline from 5 to 7g. where an isolated construction area outside the settlement loses that status in the event of not adopting an UPU or not building a basic infrastructure. It is clear to all of us that this is a condition for land redistribution. Like all other pores of society and this is covered by collages, over-normisation, opposites, and ultimately all together results in the fact that for obtaining a building permit and the Republic of Croatia below the average of competing countries on the Duing business scale of the world bank we are classified as 159th place of the scale, and we are slower and more expensive than the competing countries. What's coming out of us as a result of all our efforts in the last 30 years. from the acquisition of Croatian statehood and is a demographic image, and it has turned from a worrying stage to an alarming state. From a country that had 4 million and 800,000 inhabitants in the 1990s. Afterwards we came to about 4 million, and by some sources and below 4 million inhabitants. In this regard, the median age of the population in 2008 was 41.5 and 2013. 42.4 came to 43.7 years in 2018. True, the trend is present throughout the EU, but it does not have the same characteristics as in Croatia. Demographic ageing is not only caused by an increase in life expectancy but rather results from a reduced birth rate and a steady and negative increase in the migration balance should be added. As for demographics for Croatia, there is no good news in the entire report. Otherwise, the whole report is when you look at it in color with a lot of gray tones, but that's our reality, that's how it is in reality. What turns out as a conclusion is that we've been in the past 30 years. made a failed system that in many ways limits society's entire progress. I responsibly claim that local self-government needs at least three to four years. for the adoption of a minimum spatial plan. This fact, along with the existing legal prejudice in all segments, is directly reflected in the economy, entrepreneurship, agriculture, tourism, anything that would make the difference between a successful and a failed society. Demographic picture and population crash are not only caused by some phenomena but by a set of all circumstances within society and will not be resolved only by some changes, we need well-designed policies and practically reset the entire system. The SDP club will be abstentioned to vote on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46253	The next Club of Representatives will be the IDS on behalf of which the respected representative Katarina Nemet will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46254	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about the situation in the space of the topic that is being imposed in itself, and it is also recognised in this report is the illegal construction that continues and after legalisation was carried out several years ago, and it was expected that the problem was then solved for a long time. From day to day, we witness new examples of non-compliance with spatial plans by those who build beyond all rules and criteria, on agricultural land, on forest land, along the seashore, as if Croatian laws and spatial planning documents were not applied to them at all. With the construction of space, it is irrevocably destroyed, and those who want to prevent and preserve their space, cities and municipalities do not have legal tools to intervene until on the other hand, the countries that can prevent it are not sufficiently interested in solving this problem. So today, unfortunately, we can freely say that the situation in the Republic of Croatia is indeed chaotic, which is actually devastating for a country that is almost 8 years old. Member of the EU. IDS keeps warning about that. We have had a number of initiatives and appeals, both at the level of local self-government in Istria through our mayors and mayors, and from this constituencies to try to raise awareness of all those responsible for the serious problem that will have extremely harmful consequences in the long term for both the environment and the nature that surrounds us, but also the economy because of the destruction of agricultural land, forests, coastal areas, which bring significant and valuable natural resources to a permanent end under concrete plates and walls. I stress that agricultural and forest land is declared to be of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. Unfortunately, the country's protection of agricultural and forest land is only on paper while concrete moves on the ground are lagging behind, and the situation on the ground is becoming more alarming. It's actually amazing how far illegal builders can go in ignoring and playing laws and spatial plans. In particular, I'm talking about the parceling of agricultural and forest land. In particular, land parcels outside the building area, agricultural and forest land are taking place in the field, which are carried out against all spatial plans and land uses established by spatial plans of cities and municipalities. As the latest example of the extreme and megalomanic proportions, the parcelation of the parcel elaborate to the areas of the town of Rovinj where a cadastrian particle is decomposed or decommissioned to as much as 54 new cadastrian particles. And the question arises why would someone take agricultural land or forest to 54 particles? Certainly not because it will lead to more efficient land treatment or forest management, but to allow illegal construction to begin tomorrow on these parcels. Unfortunately, the parcel of agricultural and forest land is under the radar of state institutions. And it is precisely the process of parceling what is the very beginning, i.e. the indicator that on certain agricultural or forest land there will be construction of buildings and concreteisation. I hope that under the radar of the Government, the Resorship Ministry and other state bodies, the initiatives of the Istrian mayors and the mayors who want to bring order into space and prevent illegal construction from taking place at the very beginning. And I repeat, it is precisely the process of land parceling and deforestation of agricultural and forest land that is the first step that leads to illegal construction. This way I appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and the State Geodetic Administration to find a way to make these parcels impossible because otherwise we have to think about what will happen in the future if the owners of new parcels ask for water, electricity, sewerage. What would happen when they ask for garbage, what if there was a fire in that area? Stronger government engagement and quality regulation can also be found solutions to these problems of parceling, but there is also a political will to do so. You're still not in the mood for things to start and the problem of lawless construction is starting to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46255	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46256	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, so the report on the situation in the Republic of Croatia partly shows identified problems in space, analyses the situation and changes in space that arise under the influence of different social processes and has a larger or less direct impact on space, in part proposes solutions to improve the situation, and points to the possibility of further forwarding spatial development. So let's start with extremely important land resources in the Republic of Croatia. The territory of the Republic of Croatia comprises 5.65 million hectares of land area, of which there are 150,000 327 hectares per million and 377 thousand parcels in the system of agricultural land use records, so we're talking to the ARCOD system. Listed in the Register of Agricultural Economics in the Republic of Croatia on 31. In December 2020, we have 170,837 agricultural holdings that process agricultural land entered in the ARCOD system. The average farmland size is 6.7 hectares. The territorial Republic of Croatia can be diversified into 3 macro regional units, i.e. continental, mountainous and coastal. State agricultural land covers about 460,000 hectares, and so far under the February 2018 Agricultural Land Act there are only about 300,000 hectares. The availability programmes in accordance with the law should cover the entire state agricultural land covered by the records of all cadastrian particles to be formed in a production technical unit in the direction of more rational agricultural production. It is evident that since the entry into force of the existing Agricultural Land Act, a significant number of units of local self-government have not developed available programmes in accordance with the law, they should therefore have been built up by regional administration units or counties, and the resources from the availability of state agricultural land have thus been re-allocated in a different way. State agricultural land is a resource that allows a significant number of agricultural holdings to carry out the economic activity that represents their existence. It is necessary to establish a system of records of the use of agricultural land which will cover agricultural land as well as unprocessed agricultural land to be separated from the forest-economic base and to bring about agricultural use. The available programmes should cover all 460,000 hectares to the level of the cadastral particle and be overlapped with the ARCOD system on which we can then determine which agricultural holding is carrying out the agricultural activity in which the congratulated one is concerned. The municipalities and cities that have not developed the programme of availability and recorded all the cadastral particles owned by the state, which have no contract, make material damage to the state budget, the budget to units of local or regional self-government, and as a consequence of the reduction of budget revenues from the availability of agricultural land, there is also an obstacle to maintaining state property by means of budget spending, and I mean maintenance of Polish roads, wind lanes, canals of coastal draining, border maintenance, etc. So I'm talking about objects or objects in the space that should have been both the subject and this report. For example, the pedological map of the Republic of Croatia by the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Zagreb, whose authors are Prof. Dr. Željko Vidaček and Prof. Dr. Matko Bognovic should also be used extensively, so it should be the basis in the geoinformation system. The pedological map in the geoinformation system can then be reduced to the level of cadastar particles of each unit of local self-government, and formed a database with regard to the supply of soil to nutrients, soil analysis, macro and micro elements, land pH, humus content, etc. Furthermore, a map of soil benefits for processing, or a particular type of agricultural production, is then developed, for example. map of land benefits for vineyarding, fruit growing, so I'm talking about permanent plantations, but also vegetables, industrial plants, feed plants, etc. All of these may, therefore, be helpful to our farmers, but we will not find such data in this report. Unprocessed agricultural land as well as land from forest economic grounds which is also in nature unprocessed agricultural land should be revitalised and brought in by means of EU funds, thereby increasing the fund of arable agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. In today's circumstances, the Republic of Croatia and our political suite should actually look at all the resources of those material and immaterial, summed up in agriculture and food industries to ensure that food is self-sufficient for our population otherwise there will be no food tomorrow. As a member of the EU, we need to protect national interests, national resources and realize that we need to rely on our own people and production potentials and not expect solidarity from which it is clearly not too useful. So, in the report itself, we don't even find any serious data on entities that threaten the environment and our living space. I'll only mention one problem that poisons Slavons for many years. The release of manure into canals by companies that are representatives of large-scale capital if we have as much information as we do, is greatly rewarded by the support from the first and second pillars of our Ministry of Agriculture. That's the kind of thing about everyday life. Control and inspection unfortunately failed to obtain results. If God didn't give up, some O.P.G. dared do something like that, believe me, they'd move him out of his hometown. The epilogue of such behavior is the murder of fish in the local tributaries of our rivers. Let's just remember the newspaper articles about the waste that was delayed along the A5 highway for months. When media visited the A5 highway in the area between Đakov and Osijek last February, stone wool and plastic circuits connected with tomatoes, peppers and other vegetables grown in greenhouses, the crowd was about two metres long. As the rain fell days before, below the tones and tons of stone wool formed a pool of yellow brownish and liquids that spread and an unpleasant smell. According to the answers received by the Croatian Roads, the waste was on the highway for at least a month. Interestingly, the removal of this waste and it is not until after the media sent a request to the company owners asking for an explanation of what kind of waste is being done and why it was left there instead of being committed to care. Of course, the media didn't get the answer officially. In fact, it's absurd to know after all that today is planet Earth Day, are we going to honor it? Croatia has a million and one problem in its space, but none of the rulings are serious about it. Is it possible that we, as an opposition but also our people, are living on another planet? And yet we notice a series of problems that are primarily to be acknowledged, then analyzed and then try to fix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46257	The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46258	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with associates, associates, pardons, colleagues and colleagues. The Green-Left bloc club wants to draw up several concrete and worrying problems, and in the debate I will also present our recommendations to the general and we hope of course that you will consider them. If there is a need, we can deliver them to you in writing. However, we consider problems to be obviously destroying the coastal belt in the construction of parcels both in cities and on the coast, also very problematic, we believe that such construction does not mainly follow the necessary infrastructure such as wastewater purifiers, which causes major pollution, especially in the coastal belt. This also causes economic damage, just remember the case in the Gulf of Stone a few years ago. In the end, what we consider the global problem we see in this report is the very way of looking at space. The space is currently considered exclusively as a maximum-exploited resource, regardless of the consequences resulting from it. Instead, we feel that we should view space as something that we leave behind for future generations. In this way, we look for one another and drive ourselves to a much greater amount of responsibility towards space. I'd move on to our promotional proposals. I have some general recommendations and then I have recommendations for improving the legal and institutional framework and then for just acting in the very management of space. First of all, we believe that there is a need to intensify the design of spatial plans to improve the spatial arrangement system. The development or development of spatial plans for areas that do not have that plan should be completed, or amendments and additions to the spatial plans already adopted should be completed. These are primarily spatial plans for PP Papuk, Velebit, Lastovo Island, also need a spatial plan for NP Krka and Mljet and a change and addition of spatial plans for NP Plitvice Lakes. We believe that the activities and projects listed in the Strategic Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia should be implemented. Also, after the adoption of a new document and the policy of 2021-2030, it is necessary to carry out appropriate activities. It would be good and necessary to monitor the implementation of spatial-planned documentation and continuous surveillance to prevent the inappropriate use of valuable natural and cultural landscapes, to give appropriate importance to local natural values and to prevent the abandonment of traditional activities which, by the way, lead to the poverty and disappearance of landscape and biological diversity. It is necessary to resuscitate areas of legal action through the development and implementation of urban planning arrangements, to resuscitate or remove spatial excesses in the area of protected areas of nature. When talking about the use or development of space, it is necessary to adapt to the risks of floods and their changes, or their occurrences, in the midst of climate change. In particular, we think about the risks of rising sea levels due to climate change. The use of or the management and development of space must be coordinated with the objectives of water protection or the aquatic environment. It is also necessary to integrate the results of evaluations of expected climate change for Croatia and climate change adaptation measures into space-planning documentation, especially in those for urban areas, and this is complemented and agreed with the programming perspectives of the Strategic Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Until the creation of a new generation of spatial plans, it is necessary to continue to process valid spatial plans, use of data sets from a new generation of plans to enable the calculation of mandatory spatial indicators and the production of automated reports and, of course, the implementation of advanced spatial analyses. It is necessary to examine the need to re-use valuable natural areas in construction areas and to encourage the application of measures to mitigate the adverse effects of infrastructure construction and major procedures. It is also necessary to establish a system of data input in the Register brownfield area in Croatia which has been developed yet 2018. The development of the spatial planning information system should also be continued through continuous monitoring of technology development. The EU's Green Infrastructure Strategy should be implemented, and most of all here we think of sustainable land use and step up the use of the results of activities in the regional programmes of the European cooperation of ESPON and URBACT. As for the recommendations for space management, we believe that the use of space should be based on comprehensive management, not just by putting it under protection. Define maritime goods borders in the area of protected areas of nature, as well as other areas. The management plans of protected areas at the level of the entire country and management plans for the Natura 2000 area should be drawn up in accordance with the Nature Protection Act. It is necessary to identify clearly and precisely the objectives and indicators for monitoring the achievement of the objectives and indicators of the implementation of the activities in order to allow the monitoring of the implementation of the management plan and the work of public institutions operating national parks and nature parks. It is necessary to undertake the necessary activities to address property law relations in national parks, update land books and establish ownership status and regulate the right of first purchase. It should also work more actively to improve existing and establish new spatial databases, especially those concerning state property and state land, infrastructure systems, cultural goods, social and public infrastructure networks and climate change, which will facilitate the development of spatial plans, improve space monitoring and space management. In order to facilitate the exchange of information between NIP and public entities and good practice between NIP entities, it is necessary to continue the establishment of national spatial data infrastructure in order to improve and make space plans accessible. We also recommend to speed up the quality of cadastar and land-book data as well as the availability of spatial data through network services. We believe that the implementation of all plans and laws should be improved through regular inspection and enforcement of legal measures in the event of violations of the law. And, of course, as in most of the things we propose, we think it is necessary to improve the participatory process of public participation in the design and adoption of spatial plans, as well as the regulation of public space, but also the education and information of the public. As regards the legal and institutional framework and I will slowly complete, the development of sublaws and guidelines that determine spatial and urban planning, create a legal framework for efficient land management related to spatial and urban planning should be completed, a report on the implementation of the national guidelines for the quality and culture of the construction of Apolitics in 2013-2020 should be drawn up and a new document for the next period. It should contribute to the creation of preconditions for the affirmation of the activities of architects and spatial planners in the next programming period until 2027, continue to work on the harmonisation of sectoral strategies, sectoral laws and regulations in the area of regional development, nature and the environment, adaptation to climate change, the economy. First of all, we think about tourism, energy and production activities, transport, planning, protection and management of landscapes and other sectors that have a significant impact on the use of space. Inter-resorship cooperation should be established for the implementation of the Convention on European Areas, the development of a landscape base of the Republic of Croatia and a landscape base at lower levels as a professional basis for spatial planning and other sectoral procedures from impact on space. Now, I've been trying to be very correct in the time that we have, and I say if you'd like, we'll be happy to deliver our recommendations to you in writing, if you ask. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46259	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure requested by the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, Mr Glavasevic finally told us that he would be happy to forward these recommendations to the ministry and to the government, and in fact he read from word to word the recommendations delivered by the government to the Parliament. Therefore, there is no need to deliver Mr. Glavasevic when it is all written here in this act you have read from word to word. I followed your text with what's in the recommendations, so you don't have to bother. The government already has it, actually the government sent it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46261	Thank you very much. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a heads-up. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46262	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues, I also have this something written, but I'm going to try it out of my head so I don't have to quote anything, but I'm going back to the beginning. What is the obligation in the Croatian Parliament is that the documents we receive are in accordance with the law. What is our obligation when we vote to vote on a document that is in accordance with the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on spatial planning says the Croatian Parliament is discussing and bringing a four-year report on the situation in space, and believe it or not we have a six-year report on the situation in space. It seems to you to say what I know, one of them has an obligation to report on an annual basis, but he brings in five-year-olds and the council adopts it. Me, I'm not a lawyer, I'm a pardoned architect, I'm a living person dealing with this or, in this way of spatial planning, we've had not so long ago one case when even in the debate the president of the assembly hasn't laid down because he concluded that the act passed is not in accordance with the law, and we're now going to have an act that speaks to a six-year state report in space, and the provision I repeat once again Article 39(1) says the assembly is discussing and bringing a four-year state report in space. I want to know how the lawyers are gonna explain it and say that, so now it doesn't matter we didn't do it after four years, we did it after six, so we'll bring it in. I'm usually always trying really hard, and I have a special empathy to admit to the ministry that deals with the option or the spatial arrangement. I also have to admit that it seems to me that when it's decided that spatial planning and construction and state property should be in one place that unlike some other ministries where it's illogical that it's logical here, but I would really like some lawyer to explain to me that it's in accordance with the law that we have six-year-olds, not four-year-olds. But let's talk about the report. So, which is the meaning of the state of the space report. You in four years, you, the ministry had an office so he gave up that office, but okay, I guess it was some higher power, I'd prefer it a lot, the only country of all the EU members who doesn't have a state institution is us, but that's good policy, and that's the attitude. I'd like it to be the Bureau. What's the meaning of the space state report? That over four years, at the end of the past, you are now making recommendations for the next four years, that over four years you follow what happened, that you follow the processes that you did and that after four years you say there were processes that we controlled, there were processes that we could influence, there were processes that were absolutely under control, there were some processes that weren't under control and the burden that was in the space is such, such, such and such a recommendation for the next 4 years that I should work then through the report that I have, I see some, some state. This report is based, therefore, on the continuation of the one which was adopted in 2013 for the period 2008. – In 2012, I have to say that there was no report on the situation in space at all in the period before because there were some other things that would not be shown. The report, from the reports, you read the following, so what, what are you doing spatial plans, you don't do spatial plans for someone to have a job and now they look nice even in my day, we're doing it with colors, and today it's not like that, you work for people, you work for activities, you work for someone to live for, you work for, you work for sport, you get recreation, for tourism, for different activities, and then your first topic is in the report on the state of space you have what is with demographics. And here it is, and it's always, of course, taken are the experts who are dealing with it and who are studying it, and that's your first topic because that's what you're based on. So, when there was an analysis of spatial plans and construction areas, there somewhere in the early 2000s, spatial plans that were all made in the year 2000 because we all expected that in 2000, I don't know what and when spatial plans were done and when it was compared to planned construction areas and when it was compared to that potential that it had, it turned out that when you put it on the map that approximately planned construction areas were that Croatia could live somewhere around 20 million inhabitants. And here the report speaks, referred to on 2019 and said that in 2019 in Croatia, according to the data available, there were 4 million inhabitants. And now you have to compare it with spatial plans and building areas. And you can see in these spatial plans that construction areas of what plans are defined as 69.3% were built. You need to draw some conclusions from that. The conclusion should be that the building areas are absolutely the ones that are planned are enough for all the activities that we need to do because if there are 4 million of us, if we have a separate building for the economy, if they are built out of all the planned 70% you still have quite the reserves. But if you have any needs then the recommendations that should have been made from the report are that if any area was planned for 30 years and if in 30 years nothing happened in that space it just means that it was wrongly planned and that you must then from that construction area in the future through the change of plans give up and plan where there is a need, where the infrastructure and everything else is made. And you have to read it all from this report. So this report must define processes that have been through 4 years not through 6 and make recommendations for the future. I've applied for an individual, so I'm going to do a little something about those recommendations, but now I'm going to do something, just two more topics. One topic is your spatial planning of protected areas. The last spatial plans when we talk about the spatial plans of national parks and nature parks that were in this assembly were during a minister who according to the minister who said she was doing nothing or very bad,... The last spatial plans of national parks and nature parks were held in the assembly in 2014, Telašića, Medvednica, Žumberak, Samoborsko Gorje, 2015. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Biokovo, and North Velebit was in 2012. So in one term, someone who did not work in this assembly had brought in five spatial plans in the field of special features. The last 2015, from 2015 to 2021, is nothing. Areas of special features regardless of whether parks are nature or national parks are spaces where people need to live, places where people can work and deal with economic activity, but if you don't have spatial plans, then you get what, illegal construction. And now I'm going to come up with something that's in this report, which is the subject of the inspection, and you have exactly how the applications went from 2013 to 2018, and it went exactly the way the inspection has been done since 2013-2018. All those colleagues and colleagues who were in the former meeting can remind them when a great mega inspection was done I was really screaming from this pay phone, praying, praying and saying don't make a construction inspection go to the big inspectorate for the first time, it's not good. Then I'm also the minister who told the ministers don't do it because the building inspection has to be in the office of the minister who's head of construction. And you can only read page 210. So, the number of applications was 14,280 in 2013, the inspection was done, it brought 5.133 solutions, the number of applications was 18,331, the inspection brought 3,905 solutions. So the number of applications goes like this, and the inspection works like this. So it just shows that illegal construction is still a fact, unlike some other EU countries that when you mention it, they don't understand what they're even asking, so it says what it closed the porch? What did he turn the garage into an apartment? He doesn't know her at all. Unlawful construction, one respected parliamentary representative said it was a tradition in Croatia, but in this way it will be a tradition of Croatians. So, further application and growth reports, and inspection works as little as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46263	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates. Before I remind you, we have another very demanding point, and after that, we will discuss the motion for a decision to appoint a member and a member of a working group to coordinate national activities within the conference on the future of Europe, as well as for these individual debates we have very much reported, at least one 2.5-3 hours count on it, and then it will be, please, everyone to strictly stick to the time or we will stay very late, perhaps until the morning. Here, and now we're going to an individual debate and the first one will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulji, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46264	Thank you very much. Minister, at the very beginning of this constructive debate, this report should consider the real fact of our space. I'm going to repeat what I'm always saying is that space is all we have, space is what's most important and in space we need to worry about best, about the environment, about environmental conservation, development, industry, agriculture, the preservation of our coast, our islands, but the fact is that in space we have a number of restrictions, that we have numerous anomalies, that we have numerous usurpations, we can start from the Adriatic. So I was mentioning the maritime good. Now it's current, a problem in Makarska, concreteization where people oppose it. We need to stop it in space because if our tourism and our coast is the main resource, we have to, one of the key resources in the coast, we have to stop that concreteisation. Again, I'm going to mention land books. land and catasters that are separated, which have a problem in space, mainly in investment and building investors, that is what needs to be done, and that was a promise to move towards it. There's a problem in agriculture too, we have agricultural land that's unprocessed, we have to say it's not dedicated to purpose, and we have that resource and potential. I'll repeat, we have 700,000 acres of raw agricultural land in the area. In my Dalmatia alone, we have 200,000 acres that could feed 11 million people. For what? So the reasons are also in this part where we have to think that land and catastres and property legal relations, there's been a lot of cohesion, there's been mentioned countless of these things that should be solved, not countless, but a promise from this government, and they can't do it without a state. Of course we have to mention and very important, it means something is happening in space, as far as the environment is concerned, we have to talk about the management of waste that brings the environment to the most, here in my Split-Dalmatia County we don't have, like, a dump site of construction waste in space, and that space is essentially very nice and what the tribal would keep, we don't have that problem. So this is a much broader topic than this report itself that I repeat correctly, but about the space we all talk about together and bring up some kind of strategy that this space is not empty, we have 2/3 of Croatian empty, and we have, I think, when we talk about waste management, I'm going to mention again Lečevica, CGO that works in the area, plans in the area where we have the greatest potential in the debris, the potential of drinking water, that's the key potential with agricultural land that we have this, are water. And in this area we need to keep it in space, and I said again, I stress once again, that here, I mentioned a number of detours, a number of routes that are significant, which were drawn 20 years ago, but not from the level of local self-government but from higher plans and... The state rank and that space are blocked in development, and nothing is being built but standing in space and restricting development in the area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The results are visible, the results will be visible on the population list. You'll see that we'll have a lot less residents, under 4 million, unfortunately, I'd like it to be different, and there should be a lot more residents. I repeat once again that space is empty, without people, essentially not,.../incomprehensible/... state, the elements are that we have space, that we have people. But if we have no people's space, we lose them. So we need to adjust everything to be for the man that space. All spatial plans must be that the sea man has his place of work there, that the investor comes, that people stay in the area, and not we have limitations numerous, we have complicated means of land and cadastre, we have all complicated and the state has to solve it, narrowed particles, property-legal relationships that have simply been passed down from generation to generation. So we have countless problems and investors and investments are simply blocked, by my Sinj, the Cetin area, the Dalmatian Burn, and believe me, these are the most prospective areas of life, if we work smartly and plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46265	Thank you. We have one replica. Stay, Your Honor, we have one replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46266	Speaking of space, of course, we are also talking about specific Croatian regions and their development potentials. In that sense, my question, what do you consider the greatest development potential when we talk about space at the level of the Split-Dalmatia County and the mostly neglected Dalmatian Burn?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46267	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46268	The space of the Dalmatian Zagora from Krka to Neretva is the most potent area for life. But with bad planning and carelessness about this space, and that potential and resources, not only must we... That he's important, that he has to live here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, it is a new tourist destination which the triba opens to the world. It's not just coasts and islands, it's a tourist destination. We have the resources of agricultural land in that area, Sinjsko polje, Imotsko polje, Drnička polje, we have the Kninsko polje, we have the potential, we have the production of agricultural land, we have the potential for people who are, for example, living. in Split, the square must pay 3,000 euros, square for the apartment, while in Sinj it is much smaller and the Cetina region, just a merger car, on the highway i.e. to Split 4 strips, thus young people would fill this area. He had a huge area, a potential, and that's what we're all working on together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46269	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46270	So 7 years, 7 years, report for 7 years, which I mentioned yesterday at the Committee's session. Yeah, it's late, it's not unusual, and it's becoming standard practice for those of us who are new, so we didn't know in this House. Yesterday, we discussed a two-year report on the use of EU funds instead of half-year-olds, so we also, at that time, note that this is not unusual. And look at the wonders, the secretary of state was really right. Today, we have again witnessed the same practice at the level of another report that is very important. There's no sanction, there's law, Art. 39-41, which is about to refer to the necessity of it. There is also a Strategy on Space, which also notes that the Report will be submitted during the 4-year HS period, there is no sanctions. The sanctions should be political responsibility, and only citizens can sign off on the elections. I point out this because it is one in a series of problems in the work of this House, as well as the fact that we are discussing laws, so that we can later discuss reports concerning the subject matter of the law, such as, for example, the Island Act and the Islands Report. This prevents constructive discussion or, in this case, when we talk about space, we are late with some data that would allow our quality contributions to improve spatial policy at the level of the Republic of Croatia. Which is spatial politics. Space policy is one whole policy in which we are actually talking about the situation in the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps it is so simple to bring it closer to Croatian citizens. And what's the problem? Well, the cynic would say we might be talking only about the Republic of Croatia soon, a space that's been emptied from the population. In that sense, I will refer to a few things in this report, in this limited time, but previously it is necessary to indicate that we had an earlier strategy, or one earlier report which was related to the period 2008-2012 and if you look at it, this report has 240 pages, all of those trends present today and unfortunately, potentiated, so the thing progressed in a negative direction are mentioned in this Report. So a space report for 2008-2012. has recognized all of what this report for the 7-year period has again found as key problems in an even worse state, and that's where we find that fundamental problem. These documents aren't used, they're not worth anything. Because if they were really worth it, then we would see in these key segments an improvement compared to the previous reporting period. But he's not here. It is not particularly available, if we are talking about demographics, which is a subject which unfortunately is not so politically potent, which is why it is occasionally mentioned in pre-election campaigns and later often avoids because people are beginning to bother. It's boring because we don't have concrete results and it's a long-term policy that's unpopular because it won't have any concrete political consequences for whoever commits himself to it in a certain period of time. So you have to take one long-term measures to make Croatia survive and you are much more useful to these short-term ones that can then be appropriated and approved in the next elections. I don't have much time, what we should do is make a population register if we want to contribute to quality monitoring of demographic trends, we can't wait for censuses, it's also a recommendation from the EU, a number of other countries like Slovenia have introduced it and we really need to go in the direction of modernising ourselves, to know our demographic trends. Public goods should indeed be developed at the level of Croatia. So, citizens pay municipal contributions, pay street arrangements, in that sense they are invited to participate in discussions on how this public good will be used, up to the level of those pests that will go deep into the streets or city squares that they are also moving. The reconstruction is now a fundamental issue and in this sense not enough is talked about integrated reconstruction, you can not only rebuild construction, you must also rebuild facades, you must also make energy and refurbishment of water infrastructure, in order to really benefit from this restoration. And what I would like to conclude to say is that developmental specific areas are recognised in a strategy that deals with spatial planning as early as 2017, and these are those areas that are along the state border and affected by war. However, although they are already recognized by this last move, we see that none of it has been realised in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46271	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46272	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Selak Rasdic, yes, I was wrong when I said six years, not six years, but seven years. But I'm very curious about what kind of explanation it is if the law says that the Parliament is discussing and deciding, not the state of the room report, not the report when it's ready, but the four-year-old? So, if the Parliament delivers such a report, he has violated the provision of an article. Article 39(1) of the Law. So, I'm gonna keep an eye on what it is, not because I want neither bad nor anything but simple, it was smarter to admit then and do something else. So, not the state of the room report, but the four-year report on the state of the space. The provision is clear. I wonder how we're gonna get this report and how the lawyers are gonna explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46273	Thank you. Representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46274	Yes, colleague Dark Taritash, I asked the same question yesterday I didn't get an answer. I'm afraid the sanctions don't exist, and that's what I've been asking myself, because I wanted to do one example, so if I have to press charges to prevent this practice because in two days we've seen it at the level of two important documents. Yesterday, an even more cynical example is that four six-year-old reports merged into one with half-year-olds. So, no sanctions, sanctions can only be at the level because it's not criminal responsibility, what is it? It can be civil responsibility or political responsibility in the first place. And why does it matter? Well, now I've lost two minutes to these five minutes to point out this problem that threatens and destroys Parliament's work instead of focusing on the things that are in this report. But I do not know how it will change what will fundamentally change the picture of our Parliament in public, which can be a constructive body and not just a critical one if basic provisions are at least respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46275	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46276	Thank you very much. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, one of the problems you have well detected and that is that those who would triangulate that space to enable, what even citizens pay, it is within this report is not but we are going to go a little strategic watch. For example. Croatian waters pay for channel maintenance, mainly on agricultural land. Here in Sinjsko field, they don't do it. They don't work of course because these canals that aren't irrigating and draining but are used for irrigation, people in Glavica, in the Sinj field, in the Brnaz area, can't plant cabbage. Is that Croatian water, they don't care, they're just where they are, they don't do that job, so that this area of the agricultural land of Sinjsko polje is literally gold where the river Cetina passes, clear, we have some channels that we have, but Croatian waters don't do their job and they scrawnyly charge it from our citizens and who knows who they pay the co-operatives millions of dollars. So, the brakes of our space are institutions that the citizens pay, i.e. companies or institutions within Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46277	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46278	Indeed, these companies, including Croatia's waters, are one of the biggest public procurement problems in terms of complaints received that were justified. But when we talk about water infrastructure, it is largely funded from EU funds, which is an opportunity to improve, but if we look at OLAF reports, it is those segments that are highlighted as problematic, where certain corrupt activities have been found, that is, water infrastructure, and we are warned that this is not an isolated case, I was talking yesterday about a case of water infrastructure dealing with Poreč, but it was a trend that asked us to change all the recommendations to stop happening in practice. So, the public procurement system when we talk about exactly the water infrastructure that is a prerequisite for the functioning of a particular area is one of the most corrupt sectors in public procurement, as the EU itself noted if we are talking about attracting funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46279	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Selak Rasdic, your assessment of this document is quite casual. Namely, this document was created by the Institute for Spatial Development of the Republic of Croatia. It shows all the elements in the space that extends through the work of the three Governments of the Republic of Croatia and is very precise, from which it is given to read the current state in space and in fact it is the task of this document. What is more important, and this is that in its guidelines, recommendations and suggestions very detailed, very detailed with the acts to be adopted, with the steps to be taken, it prescribes what we should do in the next period in order to keep the situation in place in all aspects and demographics and society and the economy and the preservation of space the environment and water could fix. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So I wouldn't absolutely agree with that grade of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46281	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46282	It's not a flat-rate, it's a general, and that's a big difference. It is as general as it says that the earlier strategy already sees the fundamental problems of Croatian society because that is what this spatial report is, but we see these trends as potent in a negative sense in the next reporting period instead of turning trends in the optimistic variant or at least stopping them. So that's the first problem, and the second thing I really think is the interpretation of the law at the level of it when it's supposed to be the days of the report. It is true that this extends through several governments, and we have had a shorter election period, but in principle it should be a four-year term so that we can really see what has been done and to whom individual merits can be attributed. But in this case, it wasn't like that. It wasn't because we didn't get the report when we needed it. If we tell citizens that basic institutions should not respect Croatian law why we expect them not to rob an ATM or something more radical tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46283	Thank you very much. The next debate will be that respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46284	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys, Associates, colleagues and colleagues, so I will only say one sentence and I will no longer bother and choke, and that is what we have before us a report that is not in accordance with the legal section in accordance with Article 39(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The law on spatial planning, so I am very interested in what will be the explanation of when this report will be passed. And I'm gonna finish it, I'm gonna put an end to it, and I don't want to do it anymore, make sure, see, see how to do it. Then I'll have a piece of content. So, the report was made correctly, the report has all those elements that the report should have, the report so those who were doing were collecting data, it's not suddenly and it's something that, I always have these state reports in space I'm very fond of, I have them at home and when I need them to do something or anything I always take the report for a simple reason because it's what our spatial planning is, and it's an integrally expensive data from all aspects and then when you collect them and put them in one place, you have them in one place and you can see them. This report on the state of the space shows a real picture, shows the state that it is, has the recommendation that for, what should be done in the next 4 years, the situation should not be like that. And we just need to see if we're doing something or not. If we haven't done anything, then we haven't really done anything, why we haven't done anything and what we're going to do. So that's the meaning of the state of the room report. It's a document that all the mayors and all the mayors and all the other mayors need, because in one place they have all the information that they normally need about space and I can't add anything, or take away, but something that I want to do in this debate as much time as I have left, the topic in this seven-year period is that in, something that happened in the space, so we have a legalization process, we have a process that talks about the next, and that's something this report needs to be accepted, it's something that this report is, otherwise you have that one hot map where the layout of legalized buildings is shown. So, I'm reading from the report, quoting, in March 2018. 774.742 powerful legalisation solutions, 85% of them are residential and auxiliary buildings, and 671.654 solutions for legalization of entire buildings. That's what our hands gave us, and that's what our hands did to us. When the first Law on Legalisation went, it was said that there were approximately 100,000 illegal buildings in the Republic of Croatia. And this report should have in the following recommendations, therefore, some rehabilitation programs have been done. In the following recommendations, you should have something to do in spatial plans because you have an individual illegal building somewhere and you do not know whether something is legal or something illegal, but you also have the entire settlements that are nickelless, which need to build infrastructure and all of the contents that otherwise parts of the settlement should have and the recommendations should be what to do in spatial plans in the next relative to the recovery of space that is devastated by illegal construction, how to do so and how to actually put those parts into the tissue of some settlement. That's something, is a recommendation that should be in this report. That's exactly how those plans were done, or you were doing the pilot project of that recovery. It's the basis for something further. It's not the point of making a publication that's going to be published somewhere, I'm going to read it because I'm interested, it's going to be read by someone else because he's interested in it, that's when any spatial plan will come into the future for consent to the ministry or when the county gives consent it should always be that they've looked at all their illegal construction through spatial plans and said what with them. I speak very simply, you can have a street where you have all the houses P+2, have two houses downstairs plus the floor, and the two houses are legalized, the plan today doesn't allow any more in that street P+2 why these two legalized houses don't get through the spatial plan exception to get the face of the street. The characteristic of our illegal construction, unlike the South American, is that you have two houses on the street, they look the same, one is legal, the other is illegal. It's a feature of our illegal construction. Therefore, what were the recommendations in this report should be recommendations for spatial planning because if we have such a number of Intruders: Thank you./... and we have, I have read them, then we have a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46285	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46286	It's a very important topic. I wanted to talk about her myself, but I didn't make it. Why do people build this shit? That's what we need to ask ourselves. There's something we can find out about in the report. It says that Croatia was below the country's average of competitiveness, and the main reasons are the higher number of procedures and the significantly higher cost of issuing permits. In order to make further progress, it is essential to reduce the fees paid before the beginning of the work. This primarily refers to water and municipal contributions that do not exist in most European countries. It is also necessary to further simplify and speed up procedures, which can be achieved by reducing the number of consent needed to obtain a building permit. So we see here that our citizens are really not easy, not to say, impossible, to get to a building permit at all, which certainly affects how legally it is built. In that sense, on the trail of these recommendations, and these are things that have been known before, my question, do you think any of this will be appreciated and improved?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46287	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46288	Thank you very much for asking. I kind of always, I guess hope dies last. I really have a special kind of emotion for people who do this, because that's what they're dealing with because it's my.../incomprehensible... was a basic job. When I lived normally, I also wrote a lot of articles that were professional articles, and I also wrote a lot of articles that caused illegal construction in Croats. And then when you do an analysis, it all turns out to be three causes. One reason is economics because somehow they think that when they do it illegally, it'll be cheaper. The house costs the same, built it legally or illegally, but it's not worth the same. Other causes were unresolved property-law issues on land, so the land could not get permission, and the third was long and slow obtaining permits. Us, there is one data from Doing Business in Croatia, the value of the building permit before you go to build it for you is 9.2% of the value of the property That's what other countries don't have. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46289	The next replica is the respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46290	Honorable MPs. And you mentioned a problem with the law and disregarding the law when writing and teaching reports and I'm sorry that the majority of the parliament don't accept it as a fact, and that's the problem. I'm sorry that they're pointing out that everything's fine and we're going to vote it all out without a problem. On the one hand, they claim that everything is fine, and on the other hand they claim that we have learned something from this report and that we will take action in the future. However, the future period began in 2020, firstly, was due to begin in 2018. So the future period has already passed. The trends relative to the previous 2008-2012 report have unfortunately deepened, the problems have deepened, the trends have remained the same, so we haven't corrected anything, we haven't made any corrective action. And now for two years we've lost again and We have no idea what we're doing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46291	The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46292	So I've been very clear in communicating this issue with the provisions of the law. So, all we have to do is read the bill and see what it says here. And I wonder how I don't understand how to bridge it at all. Otherwise, the report on the state of the room is a document that everyone needs. So the document that is, what we have in us integral spatial planning is also the report on the state of the space. In.../incomprehensible/... so in these areas of ours, we've been doing spatial plans, we have.../incomprehensible/... already several generations of spatial plans, we have experience, we have tradition, we know how to do it. The thing is that only what it says shows where we are. So in 2019, this report says that we are on 2019 at 4 million inhabitants. It's a fact we have, and you do it all for some people, you don't work for something to do. So the report is to us all I need it and I'm sorry it's in the light. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] These provisions of the law. [[Intruder: Next Replic...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46293	...respected representatives of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Dark-Taritash. You were talking about illegal construction. Now I have a question for you. So we have old city cores or local cores in Dalmatian places that have houses and 200 and more years old that need to be adapted. However, in order to adapt, you need, of course, a building permit, a solution to property-legal relations, there is a question of a number of co-owners, and let's say, conservation departments are looking for actually very detailed conditions, even the color of wooden carpentry. How do you speed it up?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46295	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46296	Well, thank you very much for your question. So if someone had a magic wand, I'm sure you could handle it. But I'm absolutely sure you can't solve anything over a period of 2, 3 or 4 years, but you need to start solving. So if we know that, and we know that for years, we have a problem with unresolved property-legal relations, so it's not the problem we've had since yesterday, we know that for years. We had 2.../incomprehensible... so Croatia has 2 cadastres. One is Austrian, for the continental part of Croatia, which leads the particle and building under one number, and the other is Italian, where your building is one number, and the particle is another number. So you even have two different catastras. Instead of all the energy and effort being to take care of construction areas, so we have about 6% of the space built. Let's take out the cadastre and the garland in the construction areas, where there are requirements for construction, then by this model further. We're still acting silly, we've got 15 million cadastrian particles, 3 300 catastrian municipalities. Some 6.7% was taken care of. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46297	Thank you very much. Let's just, please, stick to the time, 'cause I say again, we're gonna go late at night. Now we're gonna take a short break up to 12 and 5 minutes to get wind. Please open the windows and we'll continue. [[It's 11:00.54.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.04 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, here is our break, so please take our seats again and we will continue our work, and now we will speak to the respected representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46299	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So here's something I want to say about this report on the state of the area for the period 2013-2019, I consider it one important document, not only for the state, at our parliament, for the government, but it is in some way and an obligation for all of us in the local self-government, when we move towards changing our plans and we are obliged to make certain reports on the state of affairs in our areas. I think of it and I look at it as a good basis to know what was going on in that time, so I'm a little surprised at the attitude of those who say they're gonna be held back or against it because I don't know what that attitude is changing, but of course each of us can also be against some reports that say what's been going on in the past six years. when he's watching. So here's what we're talking about is that in this space, or in that time, three governments have passed, one was SDP in one part of 2013-2015, and then there were HDZ governments, and then I'd like to compare it according to many criteria. I like statistics and many of this data shows certain trends. We also have to say what I said yesterday when we talked about reports on the use of European funds that some of the untrues in the assembly must be corrected precisely because it is written in the reports as an exact figure and that this is not how certain parliamentary representatives say it. We can't say that we pulled zero if we say that the benefit of some 38 billion kuna is more paid than we have in the EU. So here and here, there's a trend that shows that we have in part of the population obviously some problem that tells us that there are fewer of us. But is that what we heard this morning at the assembly? I don't believe in that number because we also have some estimates that say what happened in 2019. Compared to the 2011 census When we talk about territorial structure, 576 local self-government and regional self-government, we had the most recent changes in 2006. When the last municipalities were formed and after that we have no creation of any local self-government, it means a stable territorial structure. When we talk about the economy, it is evident that there are two regions, meaning different relations between the Adriatic and continental Croatia. Croatia has 67% of GDP in the continental part of Croatia and 33% in the Adriatic. Only the City of Zagreb carries a third of GDP throughout Croatia or half of what is carried by continental Croatia. When we talk about the situation in the coastal part, the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, Split-Dalmatia and Istria carry 71% of all economic activities or GDP, means that those other 4 wear 29% and nothing currently with our vote will change too much. When we talk about employment, and that's one interesting piece of information that we can compare what we have. So, it says here a million and 555 grand in 2019. I think it was some time of maximum employment and it was in the tourist season because December is a little bit smaller than I looked at at the State Statistics Office, and then we look at the end of 2011, when HDZ leaves the government, leaving a million 382 thousand employees, in 2015 we have when SDP leaves the government millions and 320 thousand unemployed i.e. employees, that's about 62,000 less employees and then we compare and we ask why that is? Why did some government have to leave? Today's data March 2020, million and 515 thousand employees compared to '15. It's 200,000 more employees. Did the citizens recognize that? I think they are and that they in the election can be better recognized than we as politicians each on their own ideological side. When we talk about a lot of other data, we say we're re-build. Have we ever looked at the total amount of our territory that has 5 million and 656 thousand acres, and we've all settled down or are we under construction at 125,000 acres? Are we rebuilt as a state? When we look at the ratio of the forest section that covers the woods and the agricultural land, so what is it to say the artificial surfaces where the building zones are planned inside and outside the settlement, what are your relationships? Perhaps in the Adriatic part of the Republic of Croatia we can talk about the dotted parts that have been reconstructed, but have we been able to rebuild everything? I don't think so. I can talk about my local self-government here, but I just don't have enough time. I think this report is good and it needs to be accepted and nothing will change with those who won't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46300	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46301	Dear counterpart Boris, I really don't know why anyone would be against this report or restrained because it is exhausted and maintains the right state of space. On the other hand, I will rely on your debate since the thesis mentioned in the report has been drawn here, which refers to the communal fee and the contribution because it says unlike other countries, unlike other countries, Croatia does not have anything that other countries have, which is real estate tax. At the time, Minister Linic wanted to impose one such law. So, the communal fee is a clean substitute for this property tax which essentially generates and manages just as you mentioned 576 units of local self-government, so municipalities, cities, regional self-government, without them the situation in space would definitely not be this good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46302	Thank you very much. Respected representative Selak Raspoudic has raised a breach of the rules of procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46303	Art. In 238, underestimation in terms of underestimating parliamentary representatives, asking questions as to why anyone or how anyone might be against this report. It's very simple, it's a valuable and quality report, but this report is illegal, so against the law. If the law writes once in four years, and we get the report once in seven years, then the report is illegal. That's how someone could be against that report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46304	You're aware that it was a replica, not a breach of the rules of procedure, so you get a warning. ... Better. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have a replica of the respected representative Selak Rasudiæ Yeah, sorry, sorry, the answer of the respected representative, Boric. [[Intruder Boric: I must answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46305	Thank you very much, Vice President. When we talk about communal contributions and communal fees, we think that we all know that this is in some way the basic and income of all our local self-government and if there is no construction in those areas we have some problems and they know it and they also show the cards. Let's just look at how many settlements we have from 1 to 500 inhabitants, then we have a lot more than 500 to 2000, only three settlements over 100,000 inhabitants, so Split, Rijeka and Zagreb. And, of course, we say again, we're rebuilt, we're too built, there's too many residents in each area or we don't have any residents. I think this report clearly shows what's going on in that space. Which will show the report, I don't know 2020-, 2024, if we're going by law, we'll see about this because it simply has to show progress, and that's the benefit of EU accession. And local self-government without construction, without this legalization would certainly have had less income than they had in the past seven years, and this shows all the calculations, all of them... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46306	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46307	So I really don't think we should be dealing with cheap politics, but we should focus on what we can change, what we learned from this report. However, the first step towards this is, of course, the recognition of some mistakes and respect for the fact that we should respect the laws and follow the fact that the law says four years, four years, is not a question of interpretation, it is only a question of obedience. The laws are above us, not on our interpretation. As far as this report is concerned, is there therefore political responsibility? Not for some things. Some things can't be stopped to the end, for example. Going abroad, it will always happen to some extent in the matter of digitisation, the globalisation of the young generation, but some things are political responsibility. If we 2017. in the strategy we speak of development in specific areas and here we recognize the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, according to all characteristics, and when it is affected by the earthquake we see that the worst one is standing by the depopulation at the level of Croatia and that nothing has been done, someone has to answer for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46308	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46309	Thank you very much, colleague Selak Rasdic. So when we talk about population and demographics, this report also clearly shows that only two counties have a certain population growth in the observed period, when we talk about the 2019 and 2011 census, that is the Istrian County and the City of Zagreb, all others fall. And of course there's room for politics to deal with how to have more residents in a particular area. But what I was going to say through my debate is that this report disproves many people who talk about the failure of this government because we talked about how many employees we have now compared to what we inherited in 2015, which is 200,000 employees more than what we inherited, and that's 62,000 less than in 2011 and that's what people notice. And we talked about when the pandemic started that we're going to be 400,000 less employed, so we should write a million and 100 grand today, and it's a million and 515, so it's politics, and if we don't understand that, then we have a problem or we're talking wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46310	Thank you very much. The next debate will be her respected representative, called Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46311	Dear Vice-President HS, respected members of the government with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will repeat this fact once again that I said before this debate on the illegality of this report, but with another move. The question here was, why do people build illegally, why don't people respect certain regulations? People look above themselves, people look at those, and in this case it's us and the government, how we treat this country, how we treat the laws, and then they think that's the way to act. If the government as the highest political entity in this society says that there is no need to comply with the law because it does not answer them, then it is very difficult to conclude that citizens will say that the law should be respected. But let's get back to this report. This report has a lot of good data, or data that are worth looking at, but there's also one piece of information that's actually talking about it, my colleague Bulj said something. And I've been thinking for years that the most valuable thing is that some country has space because good space management actually opens up opportunities for the development of the economy and the lives of people, quality lives of people etc. There's one resource that's more valuable than that space, and that's people. The problem of this report rests on page 8 where it is seen how this government, but also some governments previously considered the development of Croatia. So today we have Zagreb which has 20, in fact today has more than this, but in 2018 it had EUR 22,700 per capita, Istria which had EUR 15,600 per capita and a Ship-Posavia County that had EUR 6,600 per capita. Do any of us think people want to live where it's bad? Do they want to live where they can make less money? Does someone think they want to live where they're not provided with conditions? No, people naturally want to live where it's better and people move out. This is a key problem for Croatia today. We were 30 years ago. 4 million and 800 people living in this space, today we have 4 million or even less than 4 million. That's why we have a problem with the health system. If we had 30% more people paying taxes and contributions, we'd have 30% more money, and we wouldn't have a health problem from that 30% more money. Health spends, if I remember correctly, 27 billion, 6 billion is their trunk, 27 billion if you add 30% would have 8 billion, we'd have two billion extra to spend. So that's what it is, which is the problem. And now in this report, what else can be seen. In this report, we decided in 2013 to change the spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia with a rule of vertical and then horizontal integrated spatial plans. Today it's 2021, we didn't even set up that first basic plan called "State Space Development Plan" if I'm not mistaken. And this "State Space Development Plan" is the key from which everyone below should work their plans. It's been eight years. We're not out of place. Then in 2013, it was thought to start by 2015, right? So it's 6 years old. We're late for the development of the Republic of Croatia and all of the JLS 6th. They're late in their development. That's the 6th year. are something that is irreparable. It's something that if we get this JLS plan today according to the legal procedure, I think in the next year, a year and a half, I can hardly come up with my plans adapted to that state plan. There he is, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46312	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46313	Thank you very much. My colleague Brumnic, when we talk about the legalisation of illegally built objects, it was one of the strongest procedures of the state and local self-government in the past 10 years. So what we had in space first try to draw and legalize that in the space is really, and that map recognizes, tomorrow's spatial plan that's changing or some other document. We didn't get it right until then. And I don't know why he's in trouble here in that part. This has been a great effort, and these are the big revenues that went to the benefit of JLS. And every local self-government and I today as the leader still issue solutions and charge communal contributions and we get some amounts to realize that in that space there are objects that were built back in the '80s, in the '90s, most of the early 2000s when it was possible because there were no spatial plans and people were doing what they were doing. Today we have to take care of it, and I think that the state and local self-government are doing well, and that's not the problem, and that's one of the benefits this report mentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46314	Thank you. Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46315	Dear fellow Boric, what you're saying is incorrect. It's not true that there were no spatial plans in the Republic of Croatia, it's not true you know that. There were spatial plans in your area, so people were building illegally. What's the problem and the fact that from the money you've collected from legalization you should've taken care of the space. It was some idea at that time of the law. And I must personally admit I wasn't a big supporter of legalization, but it was clear to me that should happen because we had to draw a line somewhere and move on. Your task as head of JLS was to reassess the urban space and to all those people who paid off with those who paid for it earlier and were damaged by illegal construction, today live in an urbanized space, communally equipped. When I speak communally, I don't just mean electricity, water and sewers. I'm thinking about social content. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46316	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Honorable Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46317	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Minister, my colleague. Here you have just said that people do not want to live in poor areas, in areas where growth is weaker and development and I agree absolutely with you. However, how to explain that when today's government launched the project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, precisely in order to ensure the uniform development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia and to ensure better quality conditions in those areas where poverty is greater, you, or the opposition, were out of all vote against the project, especially during this interpretation which was here in Parliament several weeks ago. That's why I really don't understand how you explain it now, because this report just shows that this project is justified, that it is actually one way to solve these problems that have accumulated over the past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46318	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46319	Dear colleague, I would agree with what you said if the project Slavonia were a vision of Slavonia's development, but this project of Slavonia is the most common PR project. That's what the problem is. And I think the last time there was a debate about it was clearly shown what you did with that project of Slavonia and what you were developing in that Slavonia. I agree with you that you should invest there but there should be invested considering someone's vision of developing that area and you don't have those visions, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46320	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Minister Darko Horvat will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46321	Thank you, Your Honor, the Vice President, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, the Parliamentarians. Here in these, I dare say, a little more than 2 hours in a half-politicized but partly very constructive debate, and precisely identifying who uses sentences or data from the report itself, and who is trying to do a little improvisation, I would only like to demystify the theory of illegality and something that is not in accordance with the law. So, honourable Vice-President of the Parliament, to facilitate the professional services of the Parliament when they prepare an explanation why we are not discussing a four-year report but a five-year or six-year report, I will only remind you and you remind you of the Parliament's professional services, that the same sentence was used in 2012 when the report was discussed and accepted, which was to be reported four-yearly in 2008-2011, and it was five-year-old in 2008.-2012. On the other hand, we had here a few carefully listened, very interesting sayings. We tried to define whether the conclusions and recommendations or parts of the report were flat-rate or general. And I'll agree with the parliamentary representative that it's an enormous difference. Therefore, we responsibly argue that the recommendations following the analysis are general and are not an action plan, but the report and the implementation of these recommendations are part of some other documents. The parliamentary representative said carefully in her presentation, in principle it should be every 4 years, and I fully agree with her and only ask her to insist throughout the debate on what she said, which is also recorded and what has been verified. Here we tried to talk about trends, and then we mentioned the Doing Business Board. I will take the right to know little about it because as Minister of Economy I formed a professional working team that was supposed to improve the business environment in the Republic of Croatia and in 2018 and 2019, and we succeeded in this. How? Well, two years in a row on that Doing Business scale, we grew up. Until that moment, the Doing Business Board was a potent story on a daily basis because we were falling for 7 years and at one point in public debate, the Doing Business Board moved and forgot because we grew up on it, as well as all those verifiers of some good trends and indicators that took place in 2017, 2018 and 2019 and that we had a Doing Business criterion for 2019 that should be done at the end of 1. 5. In 2020 or presented to the public somewhere in the 10th month. In 2020, then I am sure that the third year in Croatia in the Doing Business segment or other indicators would be good. Why? Because it's a good point here. In the construction permit segment, we're in 159th place. Why? Because of this, Zagreb was not included in the integrated system of digital licensing as the capital, which is the verifier of all Croatia. Now it is. because we were named that year as a country where business is difficult to run or digitally impossible to run, so the system started today, or almost a year ago, and made it possible. And if we just sum up those two steps and progress on that scale, then the growth on the Doing Business ranking for 2019 would be more than 5 places. And what's already been said here today, we're working on a multi-annual catastrian measurement programme for the period 2021-2030. and this will be another contribution to the development of the entrepreneurial climate in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46322	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46323	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Minister. I'm extremely sorry that there's a good report on the state of the room one, I would really even dare say an excellent document that should be told to all those who are dealing with space, every mayor or mayor or someone who would be good to have out of it you have a series of data that you can use. So I have something that I always keep at home, and I'm going to keep reports on the situation in space, but you know your history is a life teacher, so then you always have to watch it a little bit and move on. Therefore, we did not have a report on the situation in the space even though it was an obligation, and the report that was adopted in 2013, was adopted under the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which was at the time, and at the end of 2013, we adopted a new Law on Spatial Regulation, which clearly states the four-year report. I'm very interested in the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46324	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46325	I have one sentence left in my mind again, we didn't have it even though we needed it, now that you've justified it, I have to admit I don't know, but you'll explain it to the public. What I am saying is, in this segment, this report is based on a recommendation that must affect complements, changes, the completion of strategic documents according to these recommendations, so one, one key goal, or one key objective, should be made. It should be said that the spatial arrangement must reconcile several things or aspects, therefore, the demands of the population, the needs of development, but also the protection of space. To what extent strategic documents and defined laws provide, we could also discuss this, perhaps not in this House, but we could discuss it informally because the strategic documents are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46326	Thank you very much. The replica of the respected representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46327	Dear Minister. You keep trying to explain inexplicably, how four years is equal to seven, how what you did something after seven years you should have done after four is right. But I don't want to talk about it. What's the key to everything you wrote in this document is conclusions. These conclusions, when you look at that document you were attached to in 2008-2012, are very similar. What is the problem is that after such conclusions were written, after realizing what the problem was, you did not take measures or moves that would reverse these trends and that is what the problem is. What's the problem today in Croatia are people, there used to be really space problem and space protection, today we have no one to protect anymore or as far as we go we'll have less.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46328	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46329	Thank you, Vice President. I don't want to go back to the part of the saying at all because they're not a replica, they're not a question, they're not a comment, they're nothing like that, and I'm not trying to explain it inexplicably. The numbers you simply cannot kill, from this pay phone they were spoken a minute ago, 200,000 employees did not fall with no but should work hard to reach that number. And all these exact indicators, and I have to admit, I'm glad that when you realize that we have brought before HS a very high-quality and exhaustive document, so by all these sectoral policies, the figures are clear and exact. Like it or not, it's a more subjective impression, but what the government wants to do is come before HS with clear and unequivocal reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46330	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Fabianic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46331	The law was passed in 2013 and the fact is that under this law it was passed and the regulation was in force on which the structure of the mandatory content that is related to the report of the situation in the area must be defined, the cities, the municipalities, the county. However, the structure of this report is not exactly in line with this Regulation, so at least they look, at least by structure and by mandatory content. And there's one more thing that I also noticed when we talked about the National Plan of Work, but before that on the Development Strategy, we don't know who was the holder of this report or who was involved in it all from a professional point of view, no. You have every honor of the minister who defends this because you are here on behalf of the promoter, but here again we have but to me which you are forced to defend.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46332	Your Honor, Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46333	Thank you. So, the holder of this document is the lady who is here today with us head of the commission and who has all participated in this commission taxively no secret is presented to the Croatian public. And what's a fact, this is a document of the ministry called the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46334	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Pera Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46335	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. One of the important definitions of space and transport of the Republic of Croatia in the international context, due to its favourable geographical position, is very important in the integration of European space. Two main transport network corridors, the Mediterranean and the Rajna-Dunav Corridor are going through Croatia. The development of transport infrastructure is crucial for strengthening the development potential of the Republic of Croatia, the basis for the development of the economy and is a basic prerequisite for the quality of life of citizens throughout the area. Transport within the Republic of Croatia is well connected when it comes to macro-regional centres, Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, but the concentration and urbanisation have led to an unequal regional development and deepened the differences between urban and rural areas, so we need to improve traffic availability with a view to balanced regional development. Today we have a quality road network, the construction of highways is about 90%, thus achieving European standards of international road connections. The network of state roads is also comprehensive and is in good condition according to national standards and EU standards. However, the rest of the road network, i.e. county and local roads, developed unevenly because over the last 20 years the emphasis has been on highway development. Ageing the population and migration of the young population contributes to the overall state of the space, an unfavourable demographic picture and an unbalanced development of Croatia are our big problem. Transport development should certainly be taken into account in this situation and should contribute to a more uniform development of all regions. The report also points to the need for better road and other modes of transport, primarily in access to airports, sea and river ports and railway stations. The length of railway lines per population in the Republic of Croatia exceeds the European average, but unfortunately with everything else we are far below average. In this decade, the focus of railways is a challenge, but it is also an opportunity for Croatia to join the establishment of a single European rail space and achieve sustainable mobility. I therefore fully support the projects of this Government aimed at investing in rail infrastructure and linking it to Croatian ports, as well as the increased investment intensity of other stakeholders, the underlying corridors, and other routes and suburban parts of the railway infrastructure. In addition to the railway, as analysed in this Report, the network of inland waterways is a significant but insufficient part of the national values of the Republic of Croatia. On the one hand, this is the reason for long-term neglect, and on the other hand, these are also difficulties in applying interstate agreements on the use of border rivers because we know that most of our waterways go through the border of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia is a maritime state and at sea we have developed a port system consisting of 6 national ports, of special international economic importance, 42 county ports and 285 local ports. The feature of the often difficult environment is that about 90% of the operating surfaces of the ports are located in urban units, resulting in limited or no possibility of their spatial development. We need to further modernise Luke, increase their intermodality and accessibility. Airports should be properly included in the regional transport system. As we know, the ports are not connected by rail or tram, the transfer of passengers takes place exclusively by cars, buses or taxis. The accessibility of airports in the Adriatic is particularly problematic during the tourist season, while in Rijeka and Pula airports there is a volume of traffic at the lower limit of cost. This Report well shows identified problems in space, analyses the situation and changes that have occurred and makes proposals to improve spatial development. The traffic connection from available transport affects demographic development, with the increasing aspect we have great importance, from a spatial point of view there is a great deal of importance, we need to mitigate the current trend of the demographically threatened areas in Croatia, improve the availability of impact parts of Croatia, even and politicntric development of Croatia with a better demographic picture, I am sure that the goal is for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46336	The following will be spoken by the respected representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46337	Mr. Reiner's esteemed vice president, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to say that this Report on the State of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013-2019 is one of the best-quality documents we have ever had the opportunity to discuss. Much better than pompously called development strategies or resilient plans. This report is full of useful data without embellishing the truth and often with very concrete recommendations which could improve the management of its space, establish mechanisms for more effective supervision and which problems continue to exist or arise as new. The space we use is the territory of the Republic of Croatia according to which each of us, its citizens, has a duty to protect it. He has an obligation to fertilize him. From the Report it is clear that Croatia spends its space and environment as a resource and is exhausting irrationally and treats it recklessly. Our agricultural land is largely abandoned, unprocessed, irrationally fragmented, and we have done nothing today on this issue. The Law of Cooperation, which is in force, proved to be inconclusive and we should have passed a new, enforceable law long ago, but it wasn't done and we don't know when it would be. Our coastal belt is covered by an unplanned construction that creates enormous pressure on the local infrastructure of our small coastal towns and settlements that adapts to the peak short-term burdens of the tourist season, which is expensively paid for by locals throughout the year. Our major cities and urban units are often messy, and the entire city districts of our largest cities have been built unplanned and over time their public infrastructure has become insufficient for all the people who live there. The urban commission that was once long spoken of in this report is mentioned as a failure. Unfortunately, Croatia has through its history had several unfavourable periods in which we have left even basic space management tools such as the cadastre or during the former state period we have left even the concept of private civil property. And the period immediately after the creation of a modern Croatian state marked urban and spatial plan nelados. What should be explained in the first place when we know that some of our local self - administrations have not made the first spatial plan since their design until 2007. In such an ambience, illegal construction flourished, so with fire measures in the last decade, mostly without criteria, we legalized anything that was legalized or at least that part of the illegal construction for which the owners were still showing interest. But even legalization wasn't complete, so in this report we find out that there are 40 thousand other objects that are illegal are not legalized. So it's about 40 thousand objects that remain illegal, so we need to ask ourselves what's going to happen to them? What is further concerned in this report is the note that illegal construction has continued to this day and that the state has not established an effective mechanism to prevent illegal construction, and direct construction control has largely been transferred to the municipal offices of local self-government. Since I'm running out of time here very quickly and I don't have much time for this debate, I would like to point out that we must finally finish the work of editing the land registers and records, and resolve property legal relations on them. It's one job we've been doing since the '90s, but we can't bring him to an end. For example, in the Law on Islands adopted by the Assembly in 2018, the Government predicted that it would be in place within 2 years. bring up a state programme to clean up and bring disaster and land books into the islands. Program not received. Minister, I asked you very clearly, please answer, what will happen to 40,000 of our poor woman's facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46338	We have one replica, stay a colleague of Miletic, a respected representative of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46339	My colleague Miletic, I would ask you to give your opinion, which is why, for example, The disaster on islands and land books has not been solved, the program has not been passed in any way promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46340	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46341	It's a rhetorical question because in civil society and where the state does its job properly then these things can really be arranged in one reasonable period of time. We're still waiting, I hope we don't wait too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46342	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of the God of Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46343	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Someone will say that the state of some country and some sector in the country is like tourism, the economy before the crown belongs to prehistory because what was worth before the crown is no longer valid today. I wouldn't agree with that. I'd say this crisis has only made everything that's been going on and what's been going on under cover of success. A little virus came along and showed what's not working. For example. It has shown that no serious country is based on its economic growth and development on one economic activity, such as tourism. But if we're going to learn something then we don't have to cry, it's enough for a government analyst to take this report from 2013 to 2019 and look at what it was doing and what it was trying to do in those six years. and compare the figures from February 2020 in the economy and tourism, and it will be perfectly clear what needs to be done. I'll take some numbers from this report and the current situation. According to GDP, Dubrovnik-Neretva County is above the average of the Republic of Croatia, even some above, 4 in the country, over 54% of the county GDP from tourism. You know what happened when the epidemic came? Collapse. Armageddon. 15% have come true. And to these same people, you didn't find it appropriate to go out on a date and give the moratorium credit. Interesting. It's the only county in the last 20 years. which has not practically made any value added growth in industry, which also makes it a recordr. Following the overall exports of goods in the 18th place, the share of the value added processing industry in the county was halved in two decades. So everyone down there will tell you today tourism is a monoculture, and that monoculture is the ones that managed that county allowed. They were on their way and they were fine. Among other things, in this report you can see that infrastructure is missing. But you're talking about gasification here. So you know what people will say to you that live 25 km away from Dubrovnik? Give us water and electricity, take the gas because they don't have any water, no electricity, and somebody let that happen. I will not speak about the insufficient number of ports of nautical tourism in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. A publicly known problem, and this is a county with a marked tourist activity. And all the pains you see today are visible after one failed season. After one failed season, tourist people became vulnerabilities. What happens, can you imagine what happens if this season happens too? Imagine those numbers. But there's a way to turn these trends around if there's going to be, if there's a will, it can be more successful. Therefore, the state should first be just and should be paid in a fair manner to Dubrovnik-Neretva County as much as the same county paid in the state budget by tourism and paid the most. It is also necessary to reduce airport charges, to increase the connection but also according to maritime lines, to brand that county but together with all products, so that the sale of one product will raise others and we will have a branded product that raises our price. It is necessary to increase the number of connections in nautical ports, and what needs to be done in economic, esteemed ministers, all administrative jobs should be made more efficient, faster and simpler, and you have shown that you can do so when the earthquake in Zagreb happened to you, suddenly there was no more need to collect any papers. He shouldn't have walked on the counters. Here I am asking you, let the trouble not make you, make it possible for people because faster administration means greater benefit to citizens but it is easier for investors who will come and invest their money and that means more jobs and that means that we will not be dependent only on tourism. We will also continue to advocate lower VAT rates in catering and tourism, but on the other hand we will provide grants to all those who are at risk at this point, in this epidemic. And that's what you need to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46344	Thank you very much. Thank you. The next debate will be that of Stishana Shahina, please. ... The next debate will be the respected representative of Nevenko Barbaric, please. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46345	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since it is not possible to give a complete comment these few minutes to the Reports on the State of the Republic of Croatia for that reporting period, I, like most colleagues, will comment on one of the factors that certainly affect the spatial planning itself and the state of the space, if not spread then certainly at a specific micro location. In the public space of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in this Assembly, BiH, a neighbouring and friendly country, has often been mentioned, unfortunately almost always in the context of political objections over the position of the Croatian people in BiH. The position of the Republic of Croatia in relation to BiH, 1000 km of land border, a number of touching points of interest for both countries and the like, condition the coordination and joint planning of either infrastructure projects, water protection projects or, in general, water economy projects, environmental protection, energy and the like. I would single out corridor 5C Ploche-Osjek-Budapest, pan-European corridor that is still under construction, important for the economic development of Eastern Slavonia, important for the steps in tourism and... The Republic of Croatia is providing a huge economic perspective in BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the port of Ploče is one of the main strategic ports of Rh in maritime freight transport, both in container and in the transport of scattered and liquid loads. The port of Ploce is of special importance for BiH and its economy, with the completion of the 5C corridor mentioned, the port of Ploce is given the opportunity to expand business to other Western and Central European countries as well. However, the expansion of the capacity of the Ploca port depends primarily on the development of railway infrastructure through BiH and the integration of the south of the Republic of Croatia with continental work. I stress, in addition to those traffic touching points, a number of examples of common approach to harmonising planning documents with the aim of ensuring conditions for use, protection and management of space on both sides of the border are of mutual interest. The spatial planning of the crucial importance is for order in space, controlled governance and development and protection, in itself, the demanding discipline that governs me, 13 laws, 3 strategies, declarations, regulations, so I point out the situation in the area in this border work when further efforts need to be made to comply with the rules of the two countries, often different priorities and interests. As the number of inhabitants, demographic trends but also the educational structure are important starting... The development of future socio-economic development, the draftr of this report offers an analysis of natural growth, migration, says population ageing problems, the educational structure of a working-age population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although the process of migration or migration from BiH has slowed down for the past two decades, I wonder if it is possible to bring a quality full programme of demographic measures without analysis of the situation and assessment of trends in BiH, above all with Croats in BiH? And in conclusion, the comment of this report, I point out the steps in the protection and management of the space that are recorded in this report. The report reminds us of valuable development potentials, I would like to personally wish that the debate was before the National Development Strategy, it would be clearer proposed objectives or recovery plan and resilience, and I would see the details of these documents clearer. And yes, this report reminds us once again how beautiful the Republic is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46346	Thank you very much. The next debate will be...... Yeah, well, we can go now, we won't go now, now we're going to go to free speeches since here it is, in just one second, now it's 1 hour, and then we're going to go to a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46347	Let's continue with our agenda, reminding us of the state of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013-2019, we are at individual debates, now it's Mr. Stipan Sashlin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46348	Dear Mr Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to express my satisfaction with this report on the situation in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013-2019, and I really think that this report is very, very high-quality, comprehensive, thorough, and what I think is even more important than all of this is that in all chapters and after all the problems seen it gives clear guidelines, clear instructions as well as in what way, what to do in order to remove any negative, negative impacts or negative changes that have occurred over the past six years. What I would particularly like to emphasise in this presentation, i.e. in this report, is that these are three topics that I consider very important and these are under 1, administrative and territorial division of the Republic of Croatia, and then under 2, development indices and 3, demographic situation in the Republic of Croatia and trends. When we talk about the territorial division of the Republic of Croatia, we know that the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia is determined by the Law on districts, towns and municipalities, so we currently have 20 counties, 127 towns and 428 municipalities and 576 units of local self-government with the City of Zagreb. Such a territorial structure of the opposition very often attacks and are just saying that it is the cause of many problems, that it is ineffective, that it is too expensive and that it is not adequate for the Republic of Croatia. But when we look at this report and we read a little bit more, then we just see that this report just refutes these thesis and their theory because if it wasn't for these small municipalities, I'm going to talk about these smallest units of local self-government that are generally the most underdeveloped and that have the smallest number of inhabitants, that picture would certainly be even worse. Be careful, by abolishing or by abolishing these units of local self-government, we might get a statistically better picture because it would fit into some larger units, however, what would we get on the ground? In the field, we'd get much, much worse. And believe me, as head of the local self-government unit, I really know it in the field and I'm behind it. I can back that up with a series of arguments. The best arguments are that you, through this territorial structure, can in some ways act through various projects, so let's say capillaryly help those most vulnerable, those smallest ones, because these municipalities also maintain life, maintain through various projects and this space and life in that space. And here, I really think that this is very important and that once we stop this already, it is practically necessary for the municipalities to be abolished, etc. When we talk about development indices, it is evident from the report that there is a huge difference in the development of the northern and western part of the Republic of Croatia compared to the eastern part and the south except the local self-government units to the south that are by the sea itself. This fact also speaks of the justification of projects such as the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem which is the result of these reports, i.e. indicators, which are designed and implemented for this reason and designed to balance and accelerate development and to get as much as possible equal development as possible of all parts of the Republic. Of course, the opposition is against it. We saw this in particular in this interpretation recently, is it, about the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srem when they advocated that, or said that this project was worth nothing, that we had no vision, that it was just some kind of project of our own. When we look at demographics and trends in the Republic of Croatia and the indices of development, if we compare these two cards that we see in this report, we see that they practically match. And here, given that we're running out of time, we just have to conclude that really through these projects that are currently being They do, but we do have some positive indicators, and I think we're on a good track... [[Thank you very much. Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46349	Thank you. You have replicas, the first line has Mr. Begonj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46350	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Shaslin, the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem was discussed here in different contexts. I am interested in your opinion that this project will contribute specifically to the development of the space of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema and Croatia as a whole, with this and the development of demographic processes in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46351	Here, answer Mr. Shashin, here you go. [[Here, thank you for asking.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46352	Indeed, this is to say the biggest current project under way, however, there are a number of other projects that are from regional level or county level, with local levels being implemented primarily to develop infrastructure in these areas. Because we are aware that infrastructure is a condition for economic development. And the economy, i.e. without economic development, without new jobs, has no survival in these areas of life or added value. So it is very closely connected and without such projects, we simply cannot talk about the survival or development of these areas. I'm saying this is the most capital project and it just kind of unites all the projects that are on county and local levels, in a way, in a self-porting way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46353	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46354	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, you were talking about the index of development, defending the territorial structure of Croatia. Tell me to what extent can local leaders influence this index of development of certain parts of Croatia and not rely solely on government or state apparatus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46355	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46356	Thank you, Vice President. So, you see, it's all based on people. The ability and quality of local leaders, or people who run local self-government units with their teams, really depends on a lot. How creative they will be, how much they will have visions and ideas of projects that will develop in their fields, the development of the whole area depends on it. Of course, they also need support from the county or regional level and ultimately from the state level. Where these are, in some ways, complex processes or where they are set up, where people really invest themselves and really have a vision of this development and support from higher levels, the results are curdicated and better, we believe that this will continue in the next period and that we will succeed in our efforts to, in some ways, preserve those spaces.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46357	Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46358	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Shaslin, I agree with you that often, in fact, in public space, the public discourse speaks of the need to abolish the municipalities. I'd say actually if it were, most of the time it comes from the left spectrum, I'd say it's actually demagogy and flossulas. In fact, the question arises why is it not specifically said which municipalities that need to be abolished, to specify the exact name, to call the municipality that needs to be abolished, and then let the colleagues on the left go to the elections, these local elections, so we say we're about to abolish that municipality, so let's see how they're going to be held on them. On the other hand, I would like to highlight this very reform which is being implemented by this government, many municipalities, I am talking about the area of my electoral unit, specifically from the Varazdin County, the budget has been increased, many kindergartens, schools, transport infrastructures are being built, which in fact allows this population to remain there, that young people remain in these municipalities and areas that are less urbanized, and that is exactly what one of the objectives and this government is, and I think to all of us in the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46359	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46360	Yeah. The fact is that it is only a fact that in a relatively small number of municipalities or JLS, to say left this option in power and normally to them as such corresponds to the abolition of as many municipalities as possible and possibly even the county is. This one, but I believe that this will not happen and that, for the most part, it will not succeed because the inhabitants of these municipalities recognized it, they have realized how important and practically all of you who are coming, who are the leaders of local self-government, are aware of how many people come to the municipality daily from various different needs, practically all relying on the municipality, not to talk about the work of associations, about the complete social to tell life in these areas, all of this is kind of based on the municipalities right now. I really can't imagine how that would work tomorrow without those municipalities on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46361	Mrs. Devereaux. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46362	Well, I'll give you a couple of counter arguments. So, municipalities, municipalities are meant to be local developmentists, right? Okay. What's the base of development? What's a development base? The development base is to a lesser extent the territory, to a lesser extent the resources of these or them. The key development base is people, people are the development base of every community. When you have a municipality of 1,000 people, 150 of whom work, and others are no longer at work age, then you do not have a development base for the municipality and it cannot develop on its own because there is not enough or own income, nor is there a sufficient number of people who can develop economic activities. And then what happens? The municipality is directly dependent on the state budget. About who? About you. And this is your goal to make as many of them as possible to the smaller ones, the more dependent on HDZ and its givings, so that they can't choose their own governance on their own, but to manage who will come and go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46363	Thank you, ma'am. It's a ben. Thank you very much, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46364	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a thank you for this question, I'm going to deny you through specific figures or states. I've got 2700 residents on the list. Our budget, the original budget, is somewhere around 7 million kuna. Each year, through various projects, primarily the EU, we withdrew over 40 million kuna worth of EU projects in these few years. And now you can't explain to me that such a community doesn't need people and that it's a burden. In fact, people recognize it, people see it, infrastructure builds. Unfortunately, these demographic problems that you're talking about they didn't come up now in these last 5 or 10 years, unfortunately it's been going on for 50 years, our villages are dying out, our people are leaving, a relatively small number of children are born, etc., but it's also related to mentality. So that's one broad topic that could be discussed all day, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46365	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46366	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46367	And now it's Mr. Jure Bourkan's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46368	Dear Vice President, respected ministry gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing meaning of the report on the situation in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013-2019. Now, the space in which we live is the base that determines the appearance of our country. However, she has identified each of us as an individual. Depending on what kind of space the branches of the economy will be defined, the system of settlements we will live in will be defined whether we will protect or use parts of special meaning. The latest report on the situation in space was considered in HS 2013 and was related to the period 2008-2012. A series of laws have been adopted since 2013. So we have a new package of laws in the area of spatial planning, construction and construction inspection. There has been a development of the information system of spatial planning, and an intense process of legalising illegally built buildings. Much has happened in the period of 6 years, and therefore we have a complete document of approximately 240 pages of very useful information. All this and complex, complex and, complexly and done through 4 chapters, first points, second analysis of the assessment of the situation, third analysis of the implementation of spatial plans and fourth proposals for improving spatial development with a basic recommendation of the measures for the next period. The report doesn't give the final conclusion that our space is good or not good, that's not even his goal. It only determines the situation which is in the space of the observed period. What is clear to read from this information that we have received is that, that negative demographic indicators are defined, the structure of use and the purpose of the surface area of the Republic is given an analysis of the settlement system and a brief overview of the economic activities that affect the space. The equipment of the infrastructure of importance for the Republic of Croatia has also been analysed and analysis of the use and protection of parts of the area of special importance has been shown. So, with such a full report as one scientific one, we can call a document of a period that has been observed since '13. Until '19. For years, I'm quite satisfied. However, what I was particularly interested in as mayor of the city of Makarska to see where my city is in all of this. And so the report shows that Makarska is located in a county located in another group above the average rankings, that as a city in the Adriatic county located in a protected coastal zone, we have a share of the construction area in the total area of 6.35%, below the national average of 7.14%, but therefore had a share of isolated construction areas, separated uses outside the settlement in our case of the city of Makarska, and that is the total share of the area of 2,63%, which is greater than the national average of 1.99%. Therefore, for Makarska, the number of inhabitants per hectare of the construction area is listed from 14,81 to 20,66, according to the planned system of central settlements as a sub-regional centre and according to the Regional Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia is defined as a smaller urban area. About Makarska in this report we can still see that there have been 16 to 30 urban planning and that, unfortunately, from the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, we have not received support for the development of spatial plans. As regards the legislation of illegally built buildings, from 669 to 1291 decisions on the state of play per catastrian municipality have been taken in Makarska according to the information contained in this report. As I just said earlier, it's not something that, whether it's good or bad, it just determines the condition it was in that period. I know that after that we brought in several more urban planning arrangements, that we further protected the space, and I believe that all this expensive effort in the next four-year report will be seen in the next report. This report also concludes on proposals to improve spatial development with basic recommendations for measures for the next period, related to demography, legal and institutional framework, education and strengthening of human capacities, international activities in spatial planning and monitoring of the situation in space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46369	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46370	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, this report clearly articulates all good but equally bad when it comes to space. I will stick to what I think I have both references and knowledge, and at the end of the day and experience, which is these five Slavonian counties, the space of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. In order to solve this problem that can be read from this report, of course it requires a consensus of all factors, from the state and local authorities. Every region in Croatia has its specificities and I don't think there is a universal solution that could solve all the problems we have. Slavonia, Baranja as well as Srijem with their natural resources, which are arable surface, forests, water, geothermal sources must have priority not for the reasons of compassion, but for the reason that they can run Croatia economically. That's what we need, and Slavonia, Baranja and Srem certainly have it. But much injustice has been done in history when it comes to Slavonia, Baranja, and Srijem. One of these is certainly legalization. Legalization is a good thing when it comes to legalizing objects but today in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem it costs more legalization than it costs itself. That's the problem we have to deal with, and that's why we have in Slavonia, Baranja and Srem so many illegal objects because people simply have nothing to pay for legalization not only houses there are other economic facilities for their machines, tractors, everything they have, and it's so expensive that they just can't handle it. I think that's where one big mistake was made, one big injustice right about these rural parts, I'm not just talking about Slavonia, and that's where Zagora and Lika and all the passive ends of our beautiful country can be classified, and I think that's where we made the mistake. We know that legalization was made to legalise what was illegally built and what might have been destroyed, and in the end Slavonia paid a great tribute. What I certainly think is important, the units of local self-government are very, very important factors when it comes to solving space not only through spatial plans, but also with their budgets, with the planning of their budgets. Today I think we went into one dimension when fountains and horticulture are more important than the economic recovery of those units of local self-government. We can't do that. So I think that all the leaders of the local self-government units, regardless of ideological, political or any other belongings, must sit down and agree what is most important to their end. That is why I said that this problem cannot be approached universally, but all of us in particular our five Slavonian counties must know what are the priorities that will attract investors to this Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem quickly and encourage economic, economic growth. That shared lobbying is very, very important. I don't think we're gonna move without it. This is all that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does, and through the project Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, through these various changes of laws that we have finally passed through these few months in the Croatian Parliament, there is, of course, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, have their chance and I am sure that the leaders of our local self-government will not miss that opportunity. But we have to raise capacity, there's no development of agriculture without capacity, and these are floor warehouses, they're refrigerators, they're centers, regional fruit centers, vegetables, anything that can be stored and sold when the price is much higher than it is at the time of harvesting itself. Demography, certainly one of the biggest problems in this area that I come from, but in demographics there will be no special boom until we raise these economic activities, until people have their jobs and, of course, have adequate wages for it. These must be priorities and I will rightly end it, precisely the Government of Andrej Plenkovic wants through these amendments to the laws that we have here entirely on our benches to make of all Croatian sites that we have equal conditions and preconditions for both economic and demographic and social development. This consensus is something Croatia needs and without which Croatia will not be able to make significant progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46371	Thank you. You have replicas, Mr. Shimičević, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46372	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor, you said this report was written so that everything is good and bad in it, and now it's up to us to change what's bad for the better, and what's good is to make it even better because man is actually the subject of our interest, so without people, there's no state, so there's no report. You come from Slavonia and I see that you are interested in making it even better in Slavonia, so what five things would you set as a priority so that the situation could change, clearly with all the support of the Eu Funds or the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46373	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46374	Thank you very much. The first thing for me and for me is the only important thing of the headstone, raising economic activity, without it absolutely there is no development of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema. Once again, I will apostrophe and say that the project, or advice for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, gives us that opportunity, has taught us many things. Many of our local leaders did not have the capacity to write EU projects, during these three, four years they trained some of the people, invested some of the money in that, and I think we will now be much more prepared for the new EU envelope, but also for what follows from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46375	Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46376	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow MP. You mentioned the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, we all know that this project is non-existent but is actually a series of tax-listed projects, including national projects that would be in this project anyway, because they are really focused on revitalising Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem would certainly not give priority to the restoration of the facades of social homes and markets but rather on investing in the economy, the future, the family. And you said it yourself that now we're in a trend to rebuild some kind of social homes and squares, which isn't really good. How, then, do you explain such dissuasive allegations, on the one hand, you are celebrating the project Slavonia, Branja and Srijem, on the other hand, you are aware of the lack of this project because we still have the seats of the county that have not solved the problem of kindergarten, or the problem which is the prerequisite of both parents' employment equally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46377	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46378	Thank you very much. I wouldn't say at all if I'd been obstructed in any way, I've said it a few times. And I'll tell you, even though you know it well, you come from that part of our beautiful country. Last year, or before 233 kindergartens were built through a 7.4.1 measure without capacity, without infrastructure, there is no arrival in these parts of the investor or anyone else. So there's a time when we're doing it, but there's a time when we say good, now we're going up that stairs. I just think we've come to a time when we need to focus all the activity on what I've been talking about. So I think there's money, there's will, and it's up to us just to see how ready we are to get into that whole story, not declarative, but action.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46379	Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46380	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. I always follow closely everything you say because it seems to me that you have this many constructive discussions, and for a moment I actually thought you were sitting here with us. So you've said everything nicely and what's in the report and what we're witnessing today, so trends in poor demographics, reductions in the number of agricultural holdings, the decline in the number of cattle and cattle that we can see, the need for more organic products, more processed agricultural land. I am very interested in whether those of you who are there in this area mean Slavonia, but the whole of Croatia is a problem, are you sitting there talking about whether you have the impression that you are listening at all, so you are still part of the ruling majority? And in the end, can you from this pay phone guarantee that all of these big announced projects and strategies will guarantee that in the next report for the next four years hopefully not six years, that they will show that trends are much better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46381	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46382	Thank you very much. I think equally good advocates are sitting on both the left and right side of the assembly and that maybe that's not the most important thing. Five Slavonian mayors have just launched a story of the establishment of institutes or Councils for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijeme, meaning the consensus of all five Slavonian mayors at that time were not all of those mayors from HDZ, which I think is absolutely irrelevant. It was the first of those laxatives, this primitive test that we've tried to see if by consensus, we can run a joint initiative of course the state, the government, without whose investment there is no development of that end. We did it. If we've made it 100%, we probably haven't, if we can do better, we have to. This is what we point out, but still these 5 Slavonian mayors are sitting together and you saw the October 5th in Nasice when the 11th Council session was held that we had an addendum to a contract where 10 other projects were still listed. related to all five Slavonian counties. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46383	Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Ivanovic, listening to you and your presentation in the section in which you were talking about the Slavonia project, not that you were not contradictory to the views and suggestions, the suggestions resulting from this report, but that you were entirely with them because there you are talking about stopping the depopulation, about encouraging demographic measures, whether direct, or indirect. When we talk about indirect conditions, then it is certainly the provision of living conditions and you mentioned and there is both transport and municipal infrastructure and economic infrastructure, social infrastructure, you mentioned kindergartens and a measure of 741, so all that contributes to improving living conditions and depopulation and that is what is supported and I absolutely agree with you that in this context then the project Slavonia is absolutely in line with this, with these recommendations resulting from the reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46385	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's just that he didn't do a good chronometer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46386	Yeah, let's keep it that way for the end. Let the Institute of Slavonia, Baranja and Srem be a platform from which we will go further, more, stronger and better. That's what the esteemed representative Bačić said. There is no such thing as setting up the basics of Croatia's development. Let's be honest, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem paid high prices and Homeland War and all that came down to Croatia after and after the floods and storms and droughts, all this went through with Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and again I say Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem do not seek compassion, they seek partnership and seek to be a driver of the economy in the Republic because they have capacities, people and everything that is necessary for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46387	Thank you, too, no more replicas. Now it's Mr. Erik Fabianic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46388	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues regarding this report, the first impression is that this report is essentially not a report, but there are indications that it is because there are certain facts in it. But to be a report, there's one thing missing, which is we don't have a comparison of the initial and final year of the report. Let's just let it be four years old or not, that's what my previous colleagues were talking about. And there's not much about strategic goals and measures that are related to different strategies either. In fact, I mentioned that there was no beginning and end as regards certain trends when I spoke to the reply, or I replicated that I had data related to the 2018 CO2 emissions, we do not know what happened at the beginning of the reporting period as well as at the end of the reporting period that we know what trend is not, and it is worth repeating. This is a classic example of some sort of state-of-the-art analysis. which is connected to the road diameter. So we have built 90% of highways or roads. That's what the report says. However, we do not know what was done during this reporting period. And when we're talking specifically about the state of the area as I come from the Primorian-Gorski County, I'm missing two things here because they might exist, maybe they don't exist. And that's the combination of the highway so Križiste – Yellow Lock and where I also saw our Minister Butkovic about the Matulji's merger with the Učka tunnel, not this is one of the things that I personally miss. There are other things that I'm going to try to sum up a little bit of this, so this is a document that needs to give an analysis of the existing state in space, it needs to be given this and certain orientations to make things better. One is a legislative framework, and the other is to improve the planning and development space and systems in the first order of those infrastructures. However, in this report, a kind of report on the ministry's work is given, laws are explained, strategies and other documents are explained, we can also call it praise, but we do not have to, and in the final chapter of the report, no recommendations have been set out to improve spatial development with the proposal for activity. Here are the specific examples. A number of spatial plans have been drawn up since the entry into force of the new Spatial Regulation Act 2014, which established a new spatial arrangement system. However, this directly indicates that in 6 years, the system of spatial arrangement was blocked, when we look at the beginning and the end of the reporting period. In view of the fact that the state spatial arrangement plan is still being developed and that it is nowhere near the adoption, it is doubtful to argue that the new spatial arrangement system is set by law and will improve the planning of space in the future. The conclusion should be that the established system is wrong because there is no end in this system block, because here we can talk about concrete examples. He's talking about composing no, that there's a lot to be done, okay, what's done about the state of the space in this reporting period and how we're dealing with this problem when we're talking about, I'm also assuming that it's important for this part of what many colleagues have looked back on about Slavonia, Slavonia and Baranja, but that is. What we have in that plan, whose debate I could not participate in. Dear colleagues, if you take the financial plans of each ministry and give it a collection of geographical origins, then that's your plan. Well, that's not your plan, that's the facts. Now if we want to put these pieces in and name them that it's related to, to Slavonia and Baranja okaj, but it's just a matter of collecting geographical, geographical investment in the financial plans that already exist in a particular ministry. So, there's one more thing, we don't even see solutions here, but we see problems, which are the same about the situation in space, and that's the environmental part where all the counties, regardless of the party's color, do the waste management centers, but they don't know where with the product of what they are, which is a side product of those centers, and that's the part that's connected to the fuel, to the fuel from the waste. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46389	Thank you very much, thank you. You don't have a replica. Mrs. Devereaux. Martina Vlasic Iljkić. And then we'll have 10 minutes of epidemiological ventilation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46390	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, I come from Požega and I know very well the state of Požega-Slavon County. All citizens are very aware of the situation around them, and unfortunately the large majority are hostages of HDZ County authorities for years that have been promising progress, growth and the development of the county. And it's good that these reports confirm what all citizens know, and here I'm talking about Požega-Slavon County and generally undeveloped Slavonia. Therefore, according to the report on the situation in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013-2019. Požeško-Slavon County is at the very beginning of development in the Republic of Croatia. These indicators and figures clearly say that. According to the State Statistics Institute, GDP is in 2018. It was EUR 12.270 per capita, with the lowest in 4 Slavonia County, Virovitica-Podravska, Brod-Posavina, Požeko-slavonska and Vukovar-Srijem County, approximately EUR 6,500 per capita. GDP per capita in the highest-ranked counties is approximately twice as high as in the lowest-placed. The minimum intensity of the investment climate and activities was recorded in Požega-Slavon County, Lika-Senjska and Virovitica-Podravska County. Minimum number of employees in 2019 notes Ličko-senjska, Požega-slavonska and Virovitičko-Podravska County. It's numbers. Between 2011 and 2019, the population of Croatia was estimated to have decreased by 5.3%, and the largest decline occurred precisely in Vukovar-Srijem, Sisak-Moslavina and Požeko-Slavon County. These figures speak all and are very contrary to the reports you mention, and here is the "Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" which you place. The investment climate in Požega-Slavon County is the lowest and we have only heard about growth and economic development for years, ruling to sign contracts that are never realised. We are at a time of negative demographic trends, and the development of the economy and sustainable development depends greatly on adequate transport connections and highways. In the report, we are witnessing an unequal development of road networks and the fact that it has been in the past 20 years. was an emphasis on highway development. Unfortunately, two Slavonian counties, Virovitica-Podravska and Požega-Slavonska are two counties that do not have one kilometer of fast road or highway. The state these counties are in are indicators that put these two counties at the beginning of development in the Republic of Croatia. For example, in Virovitica-Podravska County Virovitica is 70 km from the nearest highway and even more to the fast road. The inclusion of Požega as county headquarters on the highway in the fastest way than so far what is 34 km Nova Gradiška is the topic of the last 20 years. in which different solutions were promised, and the posjestina remained isolated despite all capacity and development possibilities. Under the urgent need to modernise the road traffic direction of Požega-Rešetarija 3, as well as modernise the rail network to contribute to a better investment climate. As we listen to jokes about tunnels every year, especially before the elections, we suggest that Croatia's leading roads that are in service of pre-election promises of citizens' security on existing roads, especially roads crossing over the crossing at Banicovac, crossing over the hill of Bunjevac and the road Novo Selo D-38 and the disputed bridge on which there have already been fatal outcomes. As for demographics and recommendations listed in the reports, lower those activities to local self - administrations because they really don’t care. Cities and municipalities should be the leading holders of support for families through active employment of women, support for mothers' families through the provision of available kindergartens, and we do not have everywhere available kindergartens, and indeed make sure that this is final, consistency and professional and family life, development of cooperation with the family center, provision of available counselling and preventive activities to work with the family, improving activities in the field of health care. For years, recommendations and activities have been in all possible strategies, but they are not implemented starting with at least local micro-levels. It is a shame that the services to families are constantly nice words in all strategies and reports while our entire families are moving out, and no one takes responsibility. Such inertness in the area of demographics shows systematic concern for the future of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46391	Thank you very much. Mr. Shimičević's replica. Stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46392	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my esteemed colleague, I'm not going to go into the content of your expression, I just wanted to ask you to comment on that '60s Possica cauldron today when it comes to demographics. Then it was much harder to live, but there were many more children and people and marriages. Is the state always necessarily to blame for all the bad things that are happening, or are the people who, when planning their families, do such things that they prefer to have a pet than have a child? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46393	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46394	I thank you, so in any case, people choose themselves at will and given their wishes, means the way and the way they live and make communities and means planning their family. What certainly the state is, you mentioned the state, responsible for adapting, so local micro-government needs to be adapted to the needs of the present. We can't compare to '60 now, '70. And the '80s. And whoever was then, so we need to turn to the present and the needs of today's family. And the needs of today's family are truly satisfying these needs are miserable because from the very beginning if we talk about kindergartens, all families and all mothers, they don't have the opportunity to put their children in kindergarten and look for employment and be equal, means to their partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46395	Thank you very much. Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Break, open the windows, break to 14 and 40. [[MEETING IN 14.25 HOURS]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.44 HOURS]] Now it's Mr. Zeljko Pavić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46397	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I think the question has already been asked several times today whether it is a legal report or not written and submitted and I would no longer really talk about it, but I would ask one more question, have we achieved with the report the goals that the reports should achieve? If we look at the structure of the report, the report is fine. If we're looking at the data that's in the report, the report's fine. However, given that we are 3 years behind on this report, given that it has not been covered for 4 years but has been covered for 7 years, it is the impression that only form is actually satisfied with this report. So, we submitted the report, we have the report by 2019, and the next period ahead of us for reporting will be from 2020 onwards. What bothers me is that we have actually learned from the 2008-2012 report and how we actually, what we have learned, have been implemented in the period from 2013 to 2019. Are some problems gone or have they escalated? Have we choked negative trends and reduced positive trends and managed to strengthen them even further? I also think that we can conclude that we have not learned anything since the report itself states that most of the trends present in the 2008-2012 report are also present later in this report from 2013 to 2019. But now it's not just that. Since we should learn something from these reports, since we should take some corrective action after certain reports, we must ask a question, and who is it intended for, who is using it? Who is responsible for the corrective actions in that report? Did we even carry out corrective actions and corrective actions? After carrying out these corrective actions and actions, did we write what the results were? Have we learned anything after these corrective actions or have we learned nothing? The question is also raised, given that this report came now and 2 years later, so it came to our tables in 2021, to whom was the report presented in early 2020? Who analyzed it in early 2020? Has anyone said what corrective actions and corrective actions we will do in the next period? I don't think so, here's just one example. Here's a sentence from the report. "At the conclusion of the 2008-2012 State Report, it can be reiterated that in the system of spatial planning of the territorial structure of cities and municipalities compared to the size of the statistical surfaces, it is still not optimal." What did we do about it? Absolutely nothing. We still have the same problems we had in 2008, so in 2021, 13 years later, the problems remained the same. We didn't do anything about it. I've already turned the minister's attention to having failed who were at our disposal,... The portal is actually not interactive and we have a hard time getting data on these portals, and another problem we can and later on is that on these portals we don't have any historical data or I couldn't get historical data, if that's possible, I would ask you if you could get that data to me then tell me how to get that data because it would be interesting that we can compare on the portals the data we received in those periods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, let's look at what happened to our data regarding the establishment of a fast internet. We have a fact inside, we don't have a fast Internet, we need to establish it, but what are we gonna do, how are we gonna do this? Any suggestions for action, that's not there. We're talking about the coverage of the next generation's networks. We have to have them, but what we're gonna do, that's not gonna happen. We also found that we have 50% or less than 50% of people, households have access to fast internet, or at less than 100 MB, what have we done? Absolutely nothing. So we have a lot of problems because this report didn't come in time and we haven't written down which corrective actions and actions should be to correct it in the next period and to have more positive, better and quality numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46398	You, too. You've got replicas, ma'am. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46399	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pavić, I think that in your last part you have well touched the subject of actually data distribution. So we have the National Space Data Infrastructure Act. We have an obligation to use the inspirational directive, we have the data that is in place and which is managed by the State Geodetic Administration, we have... The information system of spatial planning, which I personally think is extremely important that you can access different data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then you have one platform that has the Ministry of Regional Development but what's important is what you pointed out, that it's relatively simple to come up with quick and light tools. That at any time you can get information about some brownfield investment, about the possibility of using space and there we're actually kind of a limp cat and there we have to strengthen the whole story and it seems to me that ISPU or the Information System of Space Editing should be the base from which we go all the way away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46401	Thank you, Your Honor. I thank you for giving me the opportunity to further explain that sentence I said. It is that we in Croatia have a large number of databases and there is no one here to deny that in the past few years, so over the past few years, we have made a major step in relation to what we had in 2011, 2012. Today it's incomparable much more and with that data we have to master today. Unless we use these data for our analysis, unless we use them in some systems for business intelligence, unless we put it in context of some big given data we have no use for it. And if we, say, nat nat average informational writings can't get to that data and if we can't process it ourselves, if we can't come to any conclusions, then how will a man who can barely access the Internet do so? We don't benefit from that data, and the institutions that need to use them don't use them at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46402	Thank you. Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46403	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor. You wonder who this report is using, for me, mayors and mayors who have been really long for many years in the most underdeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia. What are your expectations of the recommendations listed in the report, who will hear them, who will finally start to implement them, and how do you view these recommendations that have been in different strategies for years as recommendations and are not systematically implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46404	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46405	Thank you very much. Look, as far as the report is concerned, we have a whole series of problems that I didn't want to mention here, and I didn't want to mention, and I don't want to trouble you, let's just say, first of all, with some data we stopped in 2017, so we have data from 2013-2017, but '18. and '19. We don't, then we haven't had a report since 2013-2019. That's the problem. And then what you're saying is, we only have indicators for some locals, let's tell the powers that did something, get some money from the eu funds, or they've managed to isolate something from the budget to show them that they've done something and they've written it down somewhere. Well, that's not enough. Just because we did 233 kindergartens doesn't mean anything to you if those kindergartens are empty. So we've got kindergartens now we're just making kids and we've solved everything, but that's not the solution. We need to make some kind of plan to manage with these resources and then help local leaders and mayors of municipalities and mayors and mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46406	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavić. Now it's Mr. Branko Bacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46407	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. This morning, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I supported this report in my debate, and I cited the reasons why we want to report and support it. At the end of my presentation, I referred to proposals to improve spatial development with basic recommendations that are very, very detailed, precisely listed in the report itself. And I have singled out several important recommendations that are also mentioned in the report, which are supposed to be economic development for Croatia because without quality spatial-planned documentation, without the adoption of spatial plans both at national level at regional or county level and then local, whether it is the spatial planning of urban and municipal planning, whether it is urban planning or not, there is simply no economic development of Croatia. I also said that during this period all the plans of all units are in force, so all the counties, all the cities and municipalities and that they are largely bringing in spatial-planned documents that are at the level of the detailed plan or urban planning. And that's one of the assumptions I said, when we're talking about economic development the second assumption of this same development is a well-ordered tax system of a country that often doesn't change, which is settled if I can say so, but to then go into some investment, first of all a greenfield investment is necessary to have a sorted cadastre and a land book and it's written here. When we passed the Law on geodetic measurement and made a catastra real estate then I spoke on behalf of the club and now I will repeat it, and I have information that the State Geodetic Administration has prepared a multi-year programme of cadastral measurements for the construction area in the Republic. So it's a document that one assumes to make new cadastrian measurements, speed up change and its implementation in the cataster, and then eventually in the land book. Since the Republic of Croatia has about 60,000 km2, and the construction area according to this report is when we talk about the construction area of the settlement, outside the settlement and those areas outside the settlement, somewhere around me it seems to me that over 500,000 hectares will then use this multi-year programme that is listed and which is done by the State Geodetic Authority to cover the entire building area and everything that is stated, here is the exact information that is somewhere around 403,000 hectares, i.e. 7,14% of the construction area of the settlement and outside of the settlement, i.e. the economic zone, the catering and tourist zone, the sports recreation zone, etc. It includes an additional 112,000 hectares, so about 420,000 hectares, but I say this multi-annual programme will cover about 600,000 hectares, which means that with this programme of government that should be fully implemented in the next 10 years, we should cover all those areas in Croatia where almost 90% of all economic activities are happening and if we do so and if we do so in this period, then we can say that we have mainly taken care of and updated both the cadastre and the land book, and I say one of the important, important assumptions of any fast realisation, any economic activity in Croatia and when we talk about infrastructure and when we talk about the construction of transport, municipal and social infrastructure. Therefore, I hope, in addition, that during the debate on a new four-year report on the situation in the area, we will conclude that in the meantime, we started with this realization because it is the brake of any investment in Croatia, so here in this sense I wanted to specifically single out the need for Croatia to finally start making catastras and land books. Only one information that units of local self-government that have created a new cadastre and land book almost double their financial incomes on the basis of accumulated compensation, real estate tax given increase the value of land so that it is a multiplier factor in improving work and local self-government, and otherwise [[Thank you very much.]] in Croatia through such a kind of catastra and land book arrangement. [[Intruder: Thank you Mr. Bačić]] Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46408	And now it's, you don't have a replica, and now it's Mrs. Marina's Pauper Billic's turn. You need to turn on the microphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46409	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like first of all to say that this report is quite concrete, objective and even very interesting because there is a lot of data from several angles, from several aspects, we can really look at and get information about the situation in the Republic of Croatia. I must say, of course, that I am myself, and I believe every one of us who has read this report at the beginning of those first pages must feel pride because so many resources, so much wealth when I read about the basic spatial features of our beautiful, climate, sea, islands, lakes, rivers, forests and even the forests that are not mentioned here, but here we have in my county near Okučana we have a jungle. Indeed, when we look at all of this, we can say that we have everything, and then somewhere there is a stalemate, noise because if we read further this same report we see that in all activities of industry, tourism, production, agriculture, negative trends follow us. And when we look at the previous report for 2013 we can see that we haven't made a lot of moves and that's what's key. Especially when you look at the east of Croatia, which is the last place in everything. We know that the demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia has been characterized for many years by the trend of the natural depopulation of the population and that Croatia is in fact on the negative position of demographic indicators because in this observed period negative natural growth, migration and in itself the decline of the total population, which is even more pronounced in Slavonian counties. To change this we need a system that Croatia needs, we need a system that will not only sustain Croatia but develop. And we need projects because the projects themselves need to be more concrete and more focused on growth and development. After 20 years, some of the key things needed to develop the Republic of Croatia have not been solved. As I said, we're a rich end to perspective, and what we're famous for today, unfortunately for moving out. And there have been years of investment, not that it wasn't, but the result today is more than a defeat. We make food less and we import it more than ever. Although this report does not cover the pandemic period, the coronary crisis has actually revealed all our weaknesses. Food production has proved to be a strategic matter and that Slavonia has a potential that is several times larger than what it produces today. As I say when I looked at a little previous report, what I did for the four-year period from 2008 to 2012, I have to say that there are no big differences in data from that and this report now. So six years didn't change much. What I want to do is, apart from the situation in space, use recommendations and visions that we want to do, where we want to go so that when we don't discuss a future four-year report, we're actually only 4 years old or God doesn't just give God 6 years older, and that we don't actually see any more concrete project implementation that can certainly enable the development of the economy by then and we really have room to open up new jobs and stop actually this negative demographic trend. I hope here is that the rule will focus the funding from operational programmes, which will ultimately focus on the specificities of our space primarily in terms of economic development, because this is what is extremely important. We are all witnessing that the funds are not always the best targeted, so let's say we have an example of investing in the Slavonian devastation villages in the construction of social homes and kindergartens as people move out because there are no jobs. Finally, to sum up on the state of space, the impact of space on society would ultimately mean that people feel good where they are, if they could have a safe home, a decent life, a regular salary, and equal opportunities for advancement. And unfortunately with all the resources and all the national treasures we still have the eviction trend, which means people just go looking for a better one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46410	Thank you very much, no replicas, thank you very much. Now it's your turn, now it's the clubs again, final. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS and will be spoken by Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go. Here you go. It's on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46411	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, a respected deputy minister with a colleague. So, we're discussing the report. The report is done correctly, it's done well, it's collected all the data on the changes that happened in space, and we're all kind of unhappy because we expected that compared to the report that was for 2008-2012 to see some steps, but the processes that take place in the space are long lasting. These processes take a long time and it's hard to see some steps. I'm kind of thinking that if we really want to do something, and everything is deep, I'm afraid that someone else who's going to debate or one of us in the next report might repeat the same sentences, I think it's good that in the same ministry and the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and the Ministry of State Property. But we've been talking for years about knowing what state property is. One thing that really needs to be taken care of to happen soon, which is that we really have a record of state property. Then the report says something about the brownfield investment database. You have, you may have a database, but that database is to be filled in. I am absolutely certain that the state should not develop and should not be used in its development spaces that are not built, that there should be no use of some green spaces regardless of whether they are within cities or borderline, but we have quite enough space of old industries, abandoned industries, skipped parts of the city, military spaces. And if we want to take some step, if we want to be friends and investors who come from Croatia, but also foreign ones, one of the platforms that should definitely insist on and insist on it, which is on the Brownfield investment platform that finally someone who wants to invest can go out there to see what are the skipped parts or what is and what can happen there and be sure of something, and that his property-legal relations are resolved. And that would be something you would really expect to be apart from the database that we have for that database to be both good and up-to-date. What I'd only want to say in this remaining time would like to say three things that I've seen, which are defined in this report as something that should be done in the future. One of the things is to deal with this relationship is how much of a load of space. What exactly am I talking about? We have different loads of space. You have a space that you use for 12 months a year, you have a infrastructure that is for that, the infrastructure that you maintain, but you also have tourist zones that are located by the sea or hotels that are not used for 12 months a year, that are used for a much smaller period, but you have to make the infrastructure, you have to have public lighting in function, you have to have the road that you maintain, and you keep it all 12 months a year, and you use 2 months. And you have some and so you have, so this topic of space load is something that should be taken into account in the future. In light of that, I can see that the theme of secondary housing has returned. Now, these are parts, of course it's always parts up the coast. There in the 1970s, spatial plans were especially part of the coast called "spaces for the weekend settlements". Then, in another period, it was concluded that this weekend settlement that we should call it different, so it was defined through spatial plans as houses, so not secondary housing, not holiday homes, but as a normal, normal apartment, and I see again that the topic of secondary housing has become current. There's a real danger of you being raised where the interest is again those building areas because the people who live there will say okay, here are the weekend settlements, it's a secondary apartment and I don't have the opportunity to develop, so primary housing for the settlement. That's where you took a big bite and we'll see how you get out of that bite. Of course I don't have any more time, but okay. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Some other time, some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46412	Thank you very much. The dictatorship of the chronometer. And now on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Mr. Fabianic and Mr. Pavić share five minutes, they know how, but they will share them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46413	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Oh, I signed up for the end of the club to finish certain thoughts from an individual debate. But the fact is, it's hard to support this report. First, because you yourself know that the reporting period does not correspond to a business or legal framework. And secondly, its structure as such is not in line with the rules or regulations that speak of that content. But since it is, to continue that part that I dispute with the code, in the very content itself, I'm going to say for example. that, the report found that currently the number of construction or construction areas is that they are pre-named. Therefore, the share of construction areas in the Republic of Croatia is 7,14% and 403,758 hectares respectively. In the final part, however, we do not question why this happened? So, which are the legal regulations that caused this increase, this increase in this construction area because apparently the regulations made it possible. It's the same as the part where I talked before that, the question of the problem of the compromise, and we can talk about other things. There is another thing that is very important to me, and this is an analysis of the existing state of use of space cannot be based on the planned purpose of surfaces from spatial plans. Namely, spatial plans are not an indicator of the existing state, but of the planned state, so the report shows data that are slightly different from that of the real state in the space, which this report also describes in the analysis is also a problem, e.g. solving property-legal affairs because there is also a problem, but we also have no conclusions or suggestions on what to do to solve such a situation, and they are a brake, without further investment, whether it is public investment, with that we can determine the public interest here, so it is, then, it is a little easier than when it comes to private capital. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46414	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46415	Thank you. Here's another note on the subject of a colleague named Eric. We have in our Report a table showing us the index of development of our local self-government units where we see that without change, below average was 2013. 303, no change, above the average 118 and 2013 is below the average in 2017 above the average of 134, and now let's take an example for a county where it says it is below the average of 21, above the average of 19 and below the average of 2013, and above the average of 2017, 15. It would be wonderful now if we had the data that was being taken into this local self-government so that we could in other local self-governments in which the development index remained small, take such or similar actions. Such or similar activities, to help them from the state level through various activities, through various funds, to help these municipalities, or cities, too, to come to an index of development higher than the average, that would be great, but that's not there. And we don't have that data, I've talked about it before. That's why it's important to us. We have to learn something from the report, if we don't learn anything, that report doesn't make sense. We have another situation that appeared in this report, which shows you that one municipality in 2013 had a development index above average, and in 2017 below and it is important that we know what happened in that municipality. What were they doing wrong? Which is why they have fallen with their development index and there is still that information, which is the problem we mentioned earlier, that with some data we stopped in 2017, we do not have that data for 2018 and 2019 and we do not know what is going on for those two years, although the report is actually from 2013-2019 and then, in the end, is still below that table and states that it is actually difficult to determine whether it really happened in those local self-governments to improve living conditions or not because of the methodology used. So, unfortunately, here's what we've been saying, that's true. Let’s not fill ourselves with reports just formally Let's learn something from them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46416	Thank you very much. And now it's state-owned, ma'am. Secretary of State Dunja Magash has a final word on behalf of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46417	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, thank you to the honourable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives for the constructive debate, above all. Several MPs pointed out the need to edit spatial records and resolve property-legal relations, which is intensively done, and was also mentioned by Parliament's representative, Mr Bačić, when he explained that in the government's procedure, the adoption of a multi-annual programme of cadastrian dimensions of construction areas for the period 2021-2030. In the previous debate, Ms. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Ana Mrak-Taritash also mentioned the Register brownfield investment. I'd just like to point out, it's a submodel of our spatial system and it's finished and it can be looked at on our system, it's being filled daily. Furthermore, it should be said that the spatial arrangement, that the spatial arrangement must reconcile the demands of the population and the needs of development, but at the same time, protect space for future generations. That's what we all agree on, and through the report, we emphasized it. Most MPs have declared that the report is exhaustive and complete and thanks to the designer, the Institute for Spatial Development, for the effort made to prepare such a comprehensive document. Furthermore, further challenges have been raised in the debate in terms of halting illegal construction, addressing the consequences of illegal construction, preserving the environment through spatial-planning measures, sustainable tourism. As a ministry, we will continue to focus our activities towards improving the situation in the area in accordance with the recommendations of the Report, and in this we welcome the broad support of all resolutions, professional and scientific and the highest public without which the results cannot be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46418	Stay, you have two replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46419	Thank you. Respected, in this report, so you said and which is exhausting, it is said, too, that the biggest problems are actually intruding against the protected parts of nature and in the marine good. In Split we have one problem, there is always some danger, that there is, in particular, protection on Marjan, wider construction areas, the amendment of the Split-Dalmatia area's spatial plan is under way, in which it seeks to abolish the obligation to develop a spatial plan of the area of special features for Marjan. Here's how do you propose to protect Marjan and prevent an effort to expand construction areas in the Marjan Park Forest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46420	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46421	Thank you very much for asking. As you know in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning, all spatial plans in the PDO mean a protected coastal belt to come to an agreement at the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property and be sure if that spatial plan is not made in accordance with all laws and sub-concession regulations, it will not get the consent of our ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46422	Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46423	Respected secretary of state. I don't think there's any right for any of us to question the data that's listed inside, and we think... the data that they're comprehensive, that we've been able to read a lot of things out of them, but very little reading, and that's what I've said before. The data is very expensive today, you have them, you have them at your disposal, give them to us at our disposal so that we can manipulate them more easily, not in a negative sense than we can process them, that we can analyze them and that we can propose in our local environments changes, changes, additions to our various programs, our projects to make us more successful. So it's not a criticism in the sense that we want to blacken you, but in the sense that we're asking you to help make it more systematic and that we can normally manage it with that data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46424	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46425	Thank you for asking. You've pointed out that several times in the debates, I can only tell you that these data in the report on the state of the space you've received on the benches are data that have been available to us as designers or the Office for Spatial Development of this report. So all the public bodies, all the documents from the county, the cities, the municipalities that we've been looking for, they've been installed here. The missing data, meaning that there is no such data, the development index of the latest data from 2017. Why were some data late on GDP in the county? Because they're late, because they don't exist, at least they weren't delivered to us. So all the data we've been looking for, as prescribed by both law and regulation, they're built in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46426	Thank you. Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46427	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state. It would be tied up in the area of health care there is a fine description of the system of health institutions in these seven years. I assume you're doing reports like that on a regular basis and for now this coming year. I was wondering if you sat down with the Department of Health, did you talk about a network of health institutions? It is clear to all of us that the problems with demographics, that the problem is that public health protection must actually be available, so whether you went to sit down and in terms of these reforms that are waiting for us in terms of health care, which we all expect, and in terms of some national consensus, and I commit to what Pavić said, so you should actually give us all the information that we can then give some useful advice from our area. So, I come from Međimurje I know what the situation in my area is about the system of health institutions, someone could tell you from the Split area, so if you need a consensus then we all have to sit together. And did you sit with the Department of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46428	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46429	Thank you very much for asking. I'll repeat, so in this report are the data prescribed by law and regulation. All the data we've been looking for, means between us and the Ministry of Health according to what we need for the report have been delivered, what you're looking for might be good if we had the possibility of affecting something, but it's in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health about the primary and secondary health care network so that probably it has to be in their planning documents and strategies and it has to be... where the holder of these documents will be the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46430	And at the end of the day, Mrs. Naughty Billic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46431	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state. We know that the Croatian economy marks low capital investments, so entrepreneurship in Croatia records a negative trend in the number of active companies and crafts, and according to this report in 2016. was almost 9.3% less active companies and crafts than in 2013. Tell me how you comment and how you plan to fix this trend since your relationship with entrepreneurship has been continuous and without much movement for a long time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46432	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46433	Thank you very much for asking. I can comment from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Space Planning, and that's, above all, what we're in charge of, and that's spatial plans. You know that units of local and regional self-government in their own self-rule have both jobs and tasks of spatial planning. We have brought a strategic document of spatial development that is directed to all units of local and regional self-government how they will plan their space. Of course, it could be an economy that needs to achieve the preconditions, primarily the economic zone, bring in a complete infrastructure and I think that my minister in the previous speech even mentioned how much the state invested in this direction, as much as the space-planned area, but also in another way decided that certain economic zones were opened and that they were equipped with the municipal infrastructure needed for investors to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46434	Thank you very much. Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the next item of the agenda: - Half-yearly information on the financial situation, degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy in the first half of 2020. The holder is the Croatian National Bank based on Article. 62. The CNB law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Government delivered an opinion. Does the representative of the applicant governor of the CNB, Boris Vujcic, want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46437	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all and in accordance with the legal obligation, I will briefly present the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy relating to the first half of 2020. Last year, as we know, she marked the pandemic of COVID-19. The pandemic has caused a global crisis and unlike the previous financial or economic crisis, this one has really covered the whole world. Although it did not have a starting point in the economy, which is typically for the economic crisis in the financial sector or in the real sector, there is no single economic segment left intact. From oil and inflation prices, available consumption and supply chains, everything changed overnight. To the economic crisis of this intensity and character, it was necessary to respond urgently and vigorously. The CNB has also done so by providing extremely high support to the state and the economy with a large package of measures. I remind you, we made a decision to close the economy, so-called. lockdown last year at this time, found in a situation that wasn't described in any textbook. The economy's almost stopped. All earlier projections of economic movements have become groundless and international financial markets have reacted with strong decline and high volatility. As I said then, the situation that was not foreseen in any manual, nor do we have experience with it, which was essentially a war situation. In such circumstances of complete uncertainty, we could develop new methods of monitoring current economic movements and at the same time communicate them both with the markets and the public. If we were relying on the usual statistical indicators and models we normally use, it would mean that we are late for real economic movements and are unable to intervene in time. At that time we had on the financial markets two types of pressures that were very complicated on one side, we had pressure on the foreign exchange market, strong pressure on the depreciation of domestic currency, and on the other hand, we had great pressure on the government bond market. So, practically liquidity in the state bond market was missing, I remember the moments when we would look at the markets in Reuters or Bloomberg in the morning, and not only was there a liquidity shortage in the domestic government bond markets, but at some point we didn't have quotations for German government bonds, so there was simply no quotation, we had to intervene on the market and there was a problem selling German, which means a safer state bond. So it's a very difficult situation because when you intervene on the foreign exchange market, and we had to do it to maintain the stability of the course, then you create additional liquidity. By creating that extra liquidity, you're reheating the attack on your domestic currency. So, extra depreciation pressures. So the two things you have to do, one thing to stabilise the foreign exchange market and the other to stabilise the government bond market are basically unconsistent, is, in one way, you're pulling the kunas, the other way you're creating kunas, and you're trying at the same time to stabilize the other market, and in that situation, the question is, how long can it go, how many bullets do you have, how credible you are to stop such a situation? In order to address these problems, since the beginning of March 2020, we have taken a number of measures in the area of monetary policy in three directions. So, foreign interventions like I said, we've preserved exchange rate stability, ensuring sufficient foreign currency liquidity due to demand for foreign exchanges. This prevents the pandemic from being a trigger for the realization of exchange rate risks and thus huge losses both in the financial system and in the economy. The CNB placed 2.7 billion euros in foreign exchange funds from 9 March to early July, making up 5.7 GDP. I'll just point out that despite this management of international reserves, we're in the first six months. In 2020, they made a profit of 54 million euros, although it is in this 6-month period. 60% of state-owned securities accounted for a negative contribution. So it's not a zero, it's a negative contribution. In doing so, liquidity and security as basic objectives in managing international reserves have continued to be retained. To calm the course in early April, particularly favourable influence had an agreement that we reached with the European Central Bank on the currency swap. The agreement was concluded on April 15th, making 2 billion euros more available to Croatia by the European Central Bank in exchange for kunas. The agreement has been extended twice, and according to the current arrangement, lasts until March 2022. The announcement of this swap arrangement and I must point out that this is the first time that a country that is not the Central Bank that does not issue the reserve currency is not one of the main players in international financial markets and is not in the exchange rate mechanism it has received the Rohit arrangement. Prior to that, the countries had not received the support arrangements and other central banks that requested the arrangement in principle received repo arrangements. And repo arrangements are much less useful because they mean re-involvement of the country's foreign currency assets and shorten the country's foreign currency position. At the moment it was published on Bloomberg, the news markets responded favorably, and the pressure on the kuna fell. So... The situation on the foreign exchange market has calmed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It opened up a bigger space for intervention on the binding market. With structural and regular operations and a 12 per cent reduction in reserve from 12 per cent to 9 per cent, we have increased the kuna liquidity of the banking system. In this way, interest rates in the stress situation are kept at low levels. In fact, in 2020, Despite this strong crisis, interest rates continued to decline and were lower than in 2019. Finally, the stability of the sovereign securities market where the volatility of the market caused a large part of the investors in the funds at one point decided to withdraw their shares in the funds, exit from the funds, and this created great pressure on the market because state securities had to be liquidated. This threatened the growth of interest rates on Croatian debt, and it also threatened the funds at one point to stop paying off shares in funds. As most of the funds in Croatia were sold through banks on the same counters where people perform their bank operations, it threatened to create mistrust in the banking system because it would probably be difficult for people to distinguish between the inability of funds to pay them and the security of deposits in banks. The situation would be at stake with the stability of the entire banking system. For this reason, we decided on a state securities purchase programme to stabilise this market of course on the secondary market using largely the fact that in Croatia the second pillar of the pension system was developed, capitalised savings which at that time proved to be very useful. This was, of course, necessary in order for the state to be able to finance relatively favourably on the domestic foreign market, on the one hand and on the one hand, to help and the economy in preserving jobs. As a result, the reduction in the number of jobs was only 50,000, and on the other hand for the normal functioning of vital public systems but without funding would not be possible either. In addition to the above mentioned monetary policy measures, we also took supervisory measures, which have provided room for optimal use of monetary policy instruments. We temporarily allowed banks to use the liquidity layer, so-called. Liquidity coverage rate below the prescribed minimum amount of 100%, which directly supported the liquidity of the economy, further facilitated the financing conditions, but also helped to preserve the stability of the kuna exchange rate towards the euro and thus essentially protected all debtors in euro in Croatia. The CNB also temporarily allowed access to supervisory rules on the classification of existing and new exposures according to the degree of their charging. We have made it possible for credit institutions to have non-risk clients until then, so those who were non-risk at the end of 2019 and continue to treat independent payment delays or new financing to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic. At the same time, in order to preserve insolvency and liquidity, we ordered credit institutions to keep the profits achieved in 2019. And schedules to capital, and adjust the payouts of variable receipts, various bonuses, rewards and so on. The resulting profit of banks in the first half of 2020 was reduced, practically halved due to the decline of almost all operating income and the rise in costs caused by the increase in credit risk. In addition, we have taken a number of direct measures to make it easier for citizens to operate such as lifting cash charges on ATMs from a network of other banks, emergency issuing cards for protected accounts, increasing the limit for unconnected payments without a pin to 250 kuna and so on. We have dedicated our particular concern to the protection of consumers, and regarding the moratories to consumer loans, we have determined that new conditions and payment deadlines should not violate existing consumer rights, and that consumers must be timely and clearly informed of their rights. I would point out in particular that despite all these interventions that we did in the first half of 2020, foreign reserves have returned to a pre-crisis level to date, and this year will be much more than they were in late 2019, so before the crisis. In view of the monetary and supervisory measures taken, these high capital reserves in banks did not need to take macro-prudential policy measures to preserve financial stability, which was not the case in a large number of other countries. In other words, despite the exceptional circumstances, there was no need to apply all the measures at our disposal, as we made the financial system sufficiently resistant to withstand the shock of these scales and intensity by a prudent choice of policies in previous years. I would add that as we had an earthquake in Croatia other than the pandemic in Zagreb, and later the purchase earthquake outside the framework of this half-yearly information, then some of the measures that we brought about the pandemic spread to citizens and businesses affected by the earthquake. The type of moratorium to postpone the payment of the loan and so on. All of this took place simultaneously with intensive preparations for entry for Course Mechanism 2. Close cooperation, i.e. Croatia's entry into, or Croatian National Bank into, a unique recovery mechanism and a unique banking surveillance mechanism. It is all, despite the crisis, realized on July 10, 2020 in the spring. I must say that in the spring when the pandemic began almost no one believed that we would succeed, they all said forget about July 10th, we will deal with it after the pandemic, but by resistance we also succeeded during the pandemic to take final steps towards entering the course mechanism, which was then realized in early July. In the end, the CNB was also internally affected by the pandemic, we had to organise special working arrangements to simultaneously worry about employee health and ensure the continuity of key functions that must at no time stop, such as our treasury, international reserve management, payment traffic in the country and similar or supply of citizens and the economy with cash. The earthquake severely damaged the buildings and the offices from which we work, our other building is practically a good part out of operation still, we hope to put it into operation by autumn, which, along with the pandemic, has further made it difficult to organise the job. What did the economic situation look like through the figures at the end of the first half of 2020? An exceptional decline in real gross domestic product was expected, in the first half, by as much as 7.8% compared to the same period of the previous year. The main reasons were the reduction of personal consumption, during the lock down, investments and total exports, and in particular the export of services, i.e. tourism. The country's consumption increased slightly while personal consumption decreased by 6.8% at year-on-year. The decline in personal consumption was the result of a reduction in available income due to negative labour market developments. The favourable labour market developments in early 2020 were recorded by March, however, this 4 months have seen a strong decline in the market. At the end of the first half, the number of employees, especially in the accommodation activities, as well as food preparation and services, was reduced. A year-long favourable trend in unemployment has also stopped, and wage growth has slowed significantly. In mid-2020, the average nominal gross salary was slightly higher compared to the same period of the previous year, due to strong measures to support the maintenance of employment in the form of support payments to businesses. The expansion of the pandemic has, of course, affected the reduction of inflationary pressures in general, and in particular in tourism-related services, due to a significant decline in the number of passengers and in permanent consumer goods due to the reduction in investment. Consumer price inflation slowed from 1.4% in December 2019 to minus 0.2% in June 2020 mainly due to a significant decrease in energy prices, mainly oil derivatives. The basic inflation slowed slightly from 1.2% in December 2019 to 1.1 in June 2020. The pandemic has also affected the dynamics of economic relations with abroad, it has reduced the surplus on the current and capital account of the balance of payments, meaning the surplus we have practically since entering the European Union, of course, due to a significant reduction in net exports of services, which has been particularly affected by tourism. I would like to invite you to the CNB again in the first half of 2020 for an open exchange of views with the Assembly Clubs who have come to visit the CNB since the last report, three clubs so far, thank you for accepting the call, and the rest I warmly call and hope that you will soon respond to your visit. In the end, I wish you all good health, thank you for your attention, and I will now be happy to answer your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46438	Thank you, stay, stay, have your replicas. Mrs. Karolika Vidovic-Kristo first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46439	Recently, an indictment has been brought against you by a well-known Todorovic and others for damages of 18 billion kuna, which has been caused by the issue of uncovered bonds. The key roles were played by banks and their factoring houses as a certain Zdravko Maric, today's finance minister. That mega crime was supposed to stop the CNB, but it wasn't. If this had happened in the United States, Germany or the Czech Republic, because of the extent of the damage we can call epic, you would all be in prison, and not on days are the CNB or the Government, but you from the CNB continue your inaction, you are still breaking the laws, allowing banks to terroristise and rob Croatian citizens through interest agencies, B2 capital and Eos matrix. Are you aware that you are breaking the law and are aware that you will eventually answer for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46440	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46441	Thank you very much for your question, so just the opposite of what you said. The Croatian National Bank did everything to prevent Agrokora's bankruptcy from adversely affecting financial stability, i.e. the banking system in Croatia. I suppose you know, if you don't know, I'll repeat, and here I've already talked about it, the CNB has over that period carried out continuous supervision of banks and limited exposure to Agrokor banks exactly if there was a problem with Agrokor group so that it wouldn't pull back from the Croatian banks, or that it didn't reflect negatively on financial stability, and we've successfully done that, and we've got all the praises of all those who understand what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46442	- Mrs. Crescent. Rose... Please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Rose of the Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46443	Thank you. Dear Governor, therefore, the Croatian village is deeply in charge, over-indebted and chronically lacking financial resources. For a long time, however, we have been suggesting together with farmers the establishment of Agrobank, everyone seems to be resisting it. The village needs Agrobank because commercial banks are often ready to lend loans under rather difficult conditions, but also high interest rates. The village and the peasant need loans that are easily available, quickly available and with lower interest. What do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46444	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46445	Thank you very much for asking. Ha, as far as it's concerned, it's one issue that's been going on since I've been in the CNB, so 20 years is being talked about, but agriculture funding can be solved in a number of ways, not necessarily by setting up Agrobanka. In order for someone to start a bank, they must have a very clear business model that is sustainable, from which sources of funding, what are the costs and how much money can be made on the side of the assets. If someone has such a model, however, Agrobank is welcome, however, if we look at the experience of other countries, we see that agriculture is often funded with the help of development banks, such as us, such as HBOR type and in collaboration with commercial banks or with the support of a direct state, in our case, largely through EU funding through.../incomprehensible/... policy fund. These are some systems that have proved relatively effective in most countries and which, I think, have no reason not to function effectively in Croatia if it is well placed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46446	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46447	Here, thank you. Dear Governor, I would ask you a question about how inflation is calculated, and at a time of the pandemic crisis, given that during times of crisis, consumer habits and this consumer price index that is otherwise used, whose poll, I believe, last time it worked, seems to me, was, in 2017, so in times of crisis, people's habits change, more, I don't know, buying food and some essential things, these nonessals don't buy, so some countries have resorted to collecting price data online. So, does the CNB think about doing something in that direction or using still this index which in some way then we have the wrong feeling that inflation is lower than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46448	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46449	Thank you. That's a good question, you're right when you say that during crises like this very,.../incomprehensible/... this is really, this happens once in 100 years or more of these, the kind of crisis where we have lockdown, where we ourselves stop the economy, change and the way consumers behave. If not because you would change it yourself, simply because you can't have that... The consumption they had before, and you definitely have that right again, also affects the measurement of inflation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the standard is to use that inflation published by the State Statistics Office, but we also deal with other prices, as you know the CNB, for example, pay particular attention to real estate price developments, in order to intervene with macroprudential measures, if necessary. We also do some web-scraping prices, let's see what happens to them, but for official purposes this indicator of DZS is still used when This situation lasted longer, we wouldn't have to. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] change, but if she's temporary, then... [[Thank you very much.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46450	Thank you very much. Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46451	Your Honor, Governor. Unfortunately, as we know, the coronary and lockdown epidemics have led to a significant rise in deficits in the budget. The result, therefore, is a high public debt growth of over 30 billion kuna, while GDP fell at the same time. It is obvious that Croatia will have a problem with high public debt in the coming years. Will Croatia be able to deal with such public debt and what measures is the CNB preparing to help the Croatian economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46452	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46453	Yeah. What you said was a fact, so the truth. We have now recorded the high growth of public debt as in the extreme line most other countries during the epidemic and now, according to our forecasts, that public debt from the level at which it was somewhere near the top of the peak before the beginning of the public debt should again be reduced gradually for the next 5, 6 years, faster than it requires... stability and growth, or it requires it to decrease by twenty percent between 60% and the current level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the next 3 years, according to our forecasts, we see that public debt will decrease by more than one twenty, which is good because we will reopen the gradual fiscal space that we may need in the second crisis. The new crisis will come again, we don't know when or what, but we're going to need that fiscal space, and that's why it's crucial to open it over the next few years, and the CNB will continue with the expansion of monetary policy. So far, due to relative benignity. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to support it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46454	Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Governor. I see that the report says the state of the moratorium of 32.4 billion kuna, so I ask you, the latest data, perhaps from 31.3. which is the state of moratorium, this, for loans, and to see how many citizens there are, how much is in it, how much is actually the amount according to companies and your sort of assessment of the state of the MPL on these moratories because that's actually what we can see in the balance sheet that still with the state of 30.6. is not showing up. How is it going to be and how much of this part of the uncharging loans could be found after this Covid crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46456	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46457	I'll check for 31.3 if we have more data, but in any case, moratoriums are dropping, most of it's according to businesses, a small part of it towards the population. So far, they have materialized.../incomprehensible/... not materialized in the growth of MPL, non-income loans recorded, precisely because of these supervisory measures I've been talking about, which are still in force. So banks aren't still these loans that don't essentially come back, on which the moratorium has been classified as MPLs, but what we can see is that so-called. Stage two, loans that are in phase 2, means that they're returning very badly. You, if you add up the number of MPLs, means those that are phase 3, who are not coming back and those who are speculative, phase 2, that's practically now about 1/3 of total loans in the economy. And that tells you that part of those who are now in phase 2 will still be spilled into phase 3 and become MPLs, it's hard to say exactly how, to a large extent, it depends on what kind of tourist season it's going to be with the pandemic, it's going to affect that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46458	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46459	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Vujčić, of course we are concerned about a debt that is greater than it was at the end of 2019. However, we are aware that the state had to find a way to finance all the costs expected or unexpected during this period. However, Croatia has maintained an investment rating, so this is what has significantly led to the fact that the interest rates were also very low in these borrowings. And that's what you mentioned earlier, swap with the European Central Bank. So here's a little bit more to explain that the public hears what it means.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46460	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46461	Yes, of course, it's very important that the investment rating is retained, it's the consequence that we just had that fiscal space. So the public debt fell continuously before the crisis started, and then we had this fiscal space so that it could grow without going over 150% of GDP as in some other countries that have problems with investment ratings. That was significant. Another significant possibility was that we also showed that the central banks of such a small, open country, which is not part of the euro system, can work to buy securities and keep stability on the market, which, as you said, has contributed to this swap arrangement with the European Central Bank and should be aware that this swap arrangement with the European Central Bank is essentially a significant consequence of our journey to the euro. If we weren't on that journey to the euro, the question would be that we would be able to get it. We got him, as he mentioned again, as the first country outside the course mechanism without it being a turnip that wouldn't have helped us so much. So at the moment of the investment agency, Rating agencies also estimate that further steps towards the euro could raise an investment rating by about 2... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] Two degrees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46462	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thanks for now. Do the representatives, the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, no, no. [[Intruder Vujčić: Thank you.]] I'm opening a debate in the clubs first. She's the first. Ruzica Vukovac in front of the House Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46463	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the CNB, colleagues and fellow MPs. So the global economy and the euro area were affected by the pandemic of the virus in the first half of 2020, and the Croatian economy also faced unimaginable challenges until then. The long-term economic impact of the pandemic is still on the horizon and inflation has weakened globally due to a drop in demand and major uncertainty. This sentence begins the introductory part of the half-yearly financial situation information presented to us, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy in the first half of 2020. If nothing else, we must recognise to the rapporteur that the presented document is professionally made up with the demonstration of a large number of data which clearly demonstrates the situation at the time of the pandemic. But something is missing. On the one hand, many public actors and representatives of associations, agricultural producers and individuals have for years warned the relevant ones of an extremely difficult situation in the Croatian village. They warned of the lack of clear support for food production, the production of raw materials which should be the backbone of the survival of the processing industry. We have warned of the favoring of large systems, which, for example, proved to be extremely risky and potentially harmful to the economy. I agree with the work of this document, which speaks of the drop in income, the drop in the number of unemployed, or the drop in the number of employees, the reduction in exports, the reduction and inflow of funds into the budget, the difficult functioning of the economy. But did we have to allow for the processes that made us so vulnerable all these years? As a consequence of the pandemic and the measures introduced to contain it, Croatia's real GDP was reduced by 7.8 in the first half of 2020 compared to the same period last year. We are mostly due to the reduction in personal consumption, investment and total exports, especially the export of services, so we are talking about tourism, while the state's consumption has grown. Personal consumption decreased by 6.8% at year-on-year, with a decrease in available income due to negative labour market developments, a decline in the consumption of services whose weapons were limited by epidemiological measures, as well as a lower propensity for citizens to spend due to measures of physical remoteness and avoidance of the risk of infection and a significant deterioration of consumer optimism. The number of employees in June 2020 was 3.3% lower than a year ago, primarily due to a reduction in the number of employees in the accommodation activities and food preparation and services. The unemployment rate measured as a proportion of registered unemployed persons in the overall workforce in June 2020 was 10%. Fiscal measures, such as subsidies to businesses, have facilitated the decline in employment and growth in unemployment. Also, salary growth has slowed significantly. But what does the rapporteur say about the situation in the country? All know the fact that a very small number of OPGs have been given the opportunity to participate in the measures this government has prepared as aid measures for the fallen entrepreneurs. Many have not received any help, and when we talk about milk producers, so the sector that is most endangered over the years, and it produces the most important food products, meat and milk, we have helped them with 70 kunas per head of cattle in milk production, and that is maximum for 20 cows. Yeah, 70 bucks you a whole 10 euros. We once again showed how important they really are to us. The village is deeply over-indebted without a pandemic. Our farmers are getting poorer every year to do the seed, they have to be in charge of the bank or of the buyer. Do you know what interest the farmers really owe to the ransomer? Did you know it's about 2% a month interest? Immediately after harvesting, farmers surrender their crops to a buyer who additionally charges them a fictitious cost of buying grains for which no one knows exactly what it represents. I remind you once again, the stockpile capacity of the state in privatisation sold to some for 1 kuna and thus mutilated our farmers. Is the rapporteur aware of the fact that farmers are obliged to enable the purchaser of their products to book a mortgage on their property. Those who do not will not be financed through seed financing contracts. The mechanism for recovery and resistance is the highest part of the temporary recovery instrument, so-called The next generation of the European Union, presented by the European Commission on 27 May 2020, in response to the global crisis caused by the Covid 19 pandemic. The basic intensity of the new long-term budget is to ensure flexibility mechanisms to ensure the ability to address unforeseen needs. Such a budget should correspond not only to today’s reality but also to tomorrow’s suspenses. The total accepted value of the next generation of the EU instrument is 750 billion euros, out of the total of €49.1 billion from the recovery and resilience mechanism under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for Agriculture, a total of €988 million was planned within the Economy component, sub-components Improving the use of natural resources and strengthening the food supply chain. This amounts to a total of 2% of the funds planned by the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. The whole two percent. The largest item in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan is the sub-component of Network Establishment, logistics infrastructure to strengthen the production market chain in the fruit and vegetable sector. The estimated cost shall be 62.35% of the total projected investment in the sub-component or almost two-thirds of the same. 610 million kuna is intended for the construction and equipment of logistics and distribution centres for fruit and vegetables, and only 6 million kunas for strengthening the position and visibility of manufacturers in the food supply chain. The question arises whether Croatia with existing capacities has at all needs for such additional capacities and who will manage logistics and distribution centres? The degree of association of manufacturers in our country is very low, and if they are public institutions, the quality of management of such systems will be problematic. The share of fruit and vegetables in the output of agricultural production has been moving between 5.2-9.2% in the last ten years. It is no doubt that Croatia needs modern logistics and distribution centres under the control of the producers themselves who will know how to manage them, however, is the basic assumption of this association that must be raised to a far higher level than the current one. It was therefore wiser to increase the isolation to strengthen the position and visibility of the producer in the food supply chain. Further consideration should be given to how many logistics and distribution centres we need, which is not visible in the proposal for a recovery plan and to be sustainable and profitable in the long term. The conclusion is that other key factors should have been included in the process of drawing up the plan, although they mean the grants that will be made available to agriculture, I believe that other sectors that face structural problems and the unsettled market should have been included, so I primarily think about the production of milk and meat. And for the end of the question, couldn't the percentage allocated to agriculture be slightly higher, given the importance of agriculture and the production of healthy and local food that we need so much, especially at this time of crisis? In addition, we could show our willingness to achieve green transition, social and territorial cohesion, health, and economic, financial and institutional resilience. So we could help strengthen the objectives, for which also the rapporteur in the half-year information presented on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy advocates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46464	Thank you, too. The SDP advocates' club will now be presented by Mr Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, to the governor with his associates. It is before us today that half-yearly information for the first 6 months of 2020, and it may be a prelude that, perhaps here we as advocates think about it, because today we have already finished the first quarter of 2021, and the information is being processed much faster today, it is much faster, coming to the public, that we may consider in which way we should be current, and that we do not bring the governor here into a position to talk about the data for the first 6 months of 2020, and in fact, today we are already dealing with information for the first quarter of 2021, so that when we talk about some discussions, we can give Croatian citizens a clearer picture, and certainly the debate that, that the government can influence on its instruments, that we can influence the current problems, right. So we certainly need to seriously consider how these discussions, discussions, should be current. I'm governor, the governor was also talking about, the policies of the CNB that I personally think were okay, that they were, that they were timely, that they were timely, that they calmed down the market, which is the most important, as simple as we think it was, that we witnessed the past, that our past is lush where we saw that it wasn't so simple when it started to panic, when the sale started, when it was just fear, that it wasn't easy to stabilize, as much as you think you have some instruments and you think here's someone on the side can. Citizens' psychology is something you can't predict in which direction you're going. But here we speak both economics and psychology, nothing else, in which citizens expect and see certain problems. And actually when they give up, this is not a coronary virus like a virus, so citizen psychology stopped the economy, so that's what we're talking about right now. So our perception of what we expect and then you can have whatever measures you want, but if the psychology of citizens is so difficult you can correct these certain measures, right, that they give a certain effect. So I believe it wasn't easy, and this governor also said about some monetary measures and supervisory measures that affected and stabilised the bond market, which is also very important for the Ministry of Finance that it could finance all of these, all of these expenditures that actually happened and ultimately all of these measures, so that, when this panic is actually stabilised in the first part, it's actually going to blow up, and in that part they're smoking, and then citizens are different after 3-4 months and they see some kind of, some perspective, right? What's actually in my debate is I'm going to try to touch it, that's two measures, and that's what the governor was actually talking about these moratoriums about 32 billion kuna in this, in this first quarter, and that's what our expectations are, right? What are the expectations of the CNB, what are the expectations of entrepreneurs, what are the expectations of citizens when these measures are actually released, when they end the moratorium, which is the speed that this month will finally take place in the month, when citizens start paying their wars, when the entire systems are actually unblocked, they are the expectations of citizens, and therefore I have asked what the expectations of the CNB will be for the bad MPLs and the non-income loans of the food, according to this report is actually a frozen picture, 5% of the MPLs are, even turns out to be companies, yet, even the MPLs are shrinking in the companies in this report. That's why I say it's a little bit and it's unrealistic, and it's unrealistic, and you have to say it like you can't show it otherwise. However, what expectations are not only in this year but also in the following year, some projections, which is very difficult, which is what we actually have to deal with in the future, but this is what these MPLs will do, especially from these citizens, and unfortunately we have such experiences, whether they will be back on the debt market. Let's not forget why these are low, low MPLs, low levels. Because the banks in the last 5 years, the governor knows, they've sold some of the claims, over 30 billion kunas have gotten rid of their claims and their balance sheets, they've found themselves on the debt market that bought those values at 10 or 15 or 20%, and they've actually created the debt market and those citizens who've been blocked have now found once from the bank's balance sheet in other balance sheets, more than in the banks' balance sheets, and that's why my question is how much this new covid crisis could be relocated and poured into the debt market, is it? In this context, it was actually my question whether the government has to do it again or not, is it, the government will have to react as to how to regulate this debt market, whether to introduce some new legal solution, etc. And so on and so forth. Is it the same as these, this part of 30 billion they haven't, they've been growing for years, and they've primarily come from that financial crisis since 2008. Yeah, well, that's what banks kept 3-4-5. in their balance sheets and then they got rid of each other and then they found themselves in the real sector, that part where citizens were left at the mercy of these agencies. The second question is, the CNB has been running an explosive monetary policy for several years. This is seen from all, of all actual CNB numbers and is very simple and plastically realised when you see that the situation in the CNB account is where banks hold more than 65 billion kunas that are not, which the CNB has released in various operations, and they have not been found on the market, on the market where entrepreneurs or citizens are needed. Just to get the ratio in 2015 was about 5 billion, now it's over 66 billion. So 60 billion kunas are generated to be found in the economy. But what happens on the other hand? As the aversion to the bank's risk has increased, the money that has been released very hard on the dropper will also be provided to businesses and citizens. The only thing that grows is the real estate market and through this part of the explosive monetary policy, unfortunately, I'm not saying that it's part of the explosive, one part of it has had the influence of the government through these housing measures, the real estate market is growing strongly. Even so, it had an impact and an earthquake for citizens from the city center to go to the edges of the city, and it strongly raised the price of real estate on the edges, especially in Zagreb. However, my question is today, today the DZS announced 370 billion is somewhere around GDP, but the total supply of money M-4 monetary aggregates came to 366 billion kuna, right. That's 99% of GDP. Money supply in Croatia is 99% of GDP, right. Used to be in that 4-5 years ago. It was about 75 to 80% somewhere. Now it's my question, when money, why isn't there still in that part of inflation, and there's better experts than me, or there's still no twisting, the speed of turning money, right, just everybody's still afraid, there's no spending, there's no... Now it's my question, when it's all off, is it, when it's all off, as we see in London and Israel when it's off, will it be in 2-3. This part of M-4 that really came to a serious level of 100%, I'm not saying in that expert, whether there's an impact on, that there's going to be an inflation increase, right, is that, that's one part that CNB was pushing towards the economy to recover and especially in these conditions that it is. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the issue here is now open because it has already come to four offers of money has come to a hundred percent of GDP just to know in the future in a year, two or three which are actually on that part of a certain risk. Because as the governor said initially when he defended in that part of the swearing course on the other side he had it with that liquidity again he went, so it went towards devaluation again. So they used that money. So they're not simple measures. So it's in that context to look at the part that looks at us in a year or two. And what's actually a little absurd, but these situations lead us to absurdity. Last year, the state had 27 billion minus. But what this crisis has done is that citizens' deposits have increased 27 billion. 27 billion grew citizens' deposits, that growth of deposits in banks. The bank's activity has come up to 440 billion people seem to me to be active banks primarily because of a certain growth in deposits. And imagine the absurdity, 27 billion and 12 billion are growing citizens' deposits, and 12 billion company deposits in times of crisis. And what I'm saying right now, the main reason is that people stopped spending, they stopped spending. One part goes because people pulled one piece of money from investment funds. It seems to me somewhere about 8 to 9 billion between the second and third months from the investment funds of about 23 billion, somewhere 16 billion were withdrawn simply that money was simply withdrawn and about three billion were withdrawn from pension funds. So 11 billion kunas just sucked out of these funds, one piece was found, found in the structure probably deposited by banks. However, what is now showing again because of very low costs has changed completely the structure, that more people keep on transaction accounts than in deposits. These are also not some kind of activity that makes it easier for you to put in place some kind of long-term policy. So monetary policy has done one part of what it should, but now it's up to the real sector how to defend it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46466	Mrs Grozdana Peric will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46467	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear Governor and Vice-Governmental Associates. So we have before us half-yearly information on the first half, on the financial situation, on the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for 2020. We've already moved away in 2021 and what we know is that the first quarter information in 2021 is already somewhere on May 28th, so we're going to figure out very quickly how much this pandemic and the earthquake and everything else has affected our GDP and otherwise the entire economy. In the long term, when we look at these influences of the pandemic, it has affected our economy, as well as the global economy, and what we still cannot see in the long run what is going to happen in the future is actually this product of uncertainty that is waiting for us. As is generally known in the euro area, the decline was about 3.2% in the first quarter, and in the second quarter over 14, and 14.7%, respectively. In the United States, it was about 9% in the second quarter, while China, for example, had a pandemic origin in the first trimester, but already had a recovery in the second. The GDP itself was reduced in the first term around 7.8% and this is compared to the same period last year. The reason is that the primary decline and reduction of personal investment consumption, and the total exports, since we did not have, i.e. the tourism that the export category had, in fact, an effect of 50%. Significantly in that segment, personal consumption dropped about 6.8%. When we talk about the labour market, it is very important and what we all noticed was that this labour market reacted very quickly, and by March it was actually a trend in increasing unemployment. However, it was stopped precisely because already the measures taken by the government were very active and proactive at the time, where the drop in unemployment stopped precisely by aid measures for the unemployed, or employees, and thus significantly reduced the decline. So here's what I was saying today when you look at the employment rate now after a year of this pandemic and the earthquake, we actually even have an increase in employment and retention, or a reduction in unemployment. When we look at the nominal salary in 2020, the average nominal gross salary was slightly higher in June 2020 than in June 2019, and that is the indirect impact of these support to businesses while the annual inflation rate of 1.4 in December 2019 was as negative as 0.2% was already mentioned in 2020. The impact is primarily the reduction in raw oil prices which was over 40% lower than 2019. All central banks of countries with developed financial markets reacted rapidly to these particular economic activity contractions, as the report says, by adopting unconventional measures and reducing key interest rates. Also, our CNB intervened on the foreign exchange market where it purchased government bonds on the secondary market and also conducted structural and regular operations. What is interesting is that the CNB managed to conclude a contract with the European Central Bank on the exchange of euro kuna for 2 billion euros, and when we know that the CNB actually placed an additional 2.7 billion euros in late March and early April, that active monetary policy in fact prevented a significant decline in the kuna and secured additional foreign currency liquidity. We can talk about whether everything's done right, I think it's personal, and that shows all the parameters. And finally, when we look at the projections that the CNB as an independent institution is doing for the future period, then the projections for 2021 are the GDP growth that you are predicting with 5.9% is very much something that must in one way encourage us to believe in a really high quality and good monetary policy, but also fiscally where the government has at the right time taken all steps to reduce pressures, to maintain security and maintain employment and thus actually reduce all this that also has been said by fellow Lalovac that this uncertainty and all the negative effects that can cause one mass hysteria if this uncertainty is deepened. Also thanks to monetary policy measures, relatively favourable conditions of funding for domestic sectors have been maintained, so that interest rates on long-term loans to non-financial corporations have increased by some 80 base points, but have also increased interest rates on re-contracted loans, which is not unusual, while those interest rates for the first time have been reduced. During the first half of 2020, credit institutions increased their share of non-financial corporations by 3.7 billion kuna and that reached about 4.1%, while the population slowed down this growth in plasma, especially these cash non-intentional loans. However, housing loans increased over 7% compared to 2019. We can also mention that at the end of the first half, the international reserves of the CNB were lower by 6.7% compared to 2019 and even during the same period the net reserves were reduced by 5.4%. This is how the HDZ Club supports this particular CNB report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46468	Thank you. We move to individual debates, the first Mrs. Karolina Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46469	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. If HS were an authentic sincere representative of Croatian citizens, then after the debate on this point we would decide on the immediate resolution of the governor of the CNB and the appointment of a temporary governor who would have the task of making an inventory of the real situation in an institution bearing the name of the CNB because the national banks, as the name itself says, work for the people. The CNB works for banks, not Croatian people. In this dry text which you of the CNB call a report, there is no information that you received a warning from the European Central Bank that it is a Unicredit i.e. The Zagreb bank was involved in money laundering and in high style. What we know is that the President of the Board of Zagreb, Miljenko Zivjaljić, submitted an unrevocable resignation unexpectedly and suddenly in early 2020. And why did he resign? The Croatian public has been deprived of its right to information because the Croats would have what the Germans have. For example, in Germany three years ago, there was a famous scene outside Deutsche Bank headquarters in Frankfurt, and one morning over 100 police officers in vested news, armed with long pipes and blocked the headquarters of this largest German and one of the largest business banks in the world. The siege lasted for hours, no one could leave the facility, and this was all done to secure evidence because the bank broke German laws and damaged the German budget. The German has the right to his people's bank that oversees the bank's operations on the legality of business, but the Croat does not. That's why the German pays rent by 1.5% to 2%, which is why consumer credit is 3%, and Croats pay twice as much. The matter is very simple, the legality and order mean market security. And it's in the interest of the vast majority of citizens. Infringement of the law and corruption that is possible only with the assistance of state bodies or institutions such as in this case of CNB is of the benefit of a purely narrow handful of powerful people, and contrary to the interests of the vast majority of Croatian citizens. How can you from the CNB allow business banks to systematically violate the European Data Protection Regulation, the banking secret and participate in interest-bearing activities against their own customers? I personally wrote to you that Addiko Bank gives information without the client's consent to the Agency for the collection of claims that threatens families with a mob way and disturbs them. Well, we're a member of the EU, not some wild west. The CNB was obliged to submit a criminal application against those responsible in Addiko Bank and to withdraw their work authorisation from the management of the bank. The CNB is obliged to ensure that financial institutions work legally. The CNB Act clearly describes your jurisdiction, if any company provides services in the area of finance, then it does not have to be baptized by the name of the bank, but it automatically belongs either under the supervision of the CNB or HANFE. Your and HANFE claims that you are not in charge of the business of B2 Capital or Eos Matrix that buy from credit banks without customer consent, and which is explicitly contrary to the European Data Protection Regulation, are incorrect. In addition, scandalous Croatian courts accept lawsuits on the basis of the so-called contract. CESI, but there's only one cell if three sides have arranged something and signed it. There's no question about clients here, and we know why. Banks sell their claim for 20%, and customers are asked for 100 and more percent of the debt and are charged extra interest. Since they are aware that it is a criminal offence of interest, the courts do not at all require the identification of those agencies but accept agreements on a system in which no amounts are indicated or the contracts in which the amounts are blacked out. There's little to say that the laws of the courts and the CNB are being violated. You're the ones who wipe the floor with the laws. You do not openly apply the laws, maliciously and incorrectly interpret them only to please the handful of powers of the same banks and interest agencies and their political protectors. I'm asking you, man, can you sleep with consciousness that you take a roof over your head to families with 2, 3 or 5 children, which violates their civil and human rights, and they finance you through their poverty who are in charge of protecting them. For your illegal activity, you will eventually answer and you know it. And we Croats will fight for the rule of law as we have so far fought against and far more dangerous opponents than this present corrupt government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46470	We have one replica, distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Kristo and I think that in many issues we can have drastically different views, to express myself diplomatically, but in this debate you have raised some important questions that I believe and I hope that the governor in his final speech may say something about them. And that's first of all about the business of the so-called so-called business. It's a debt buyout agency. So more and more citizens and citizens appear, and we even get information that the percentage of the debt is not 20% but that it is much, much smaller, and that citizens are expected as you yourself have said a much, much larger amount of payment and is pushed constantly into debt from which they can't actually get out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46472	Thank you, colleague Glavasevic. It's true what you said and Governor Vujcic is familiar with it. And why do I know that? Because I personally introduced him to it, but this agony continues. The only thing I can do is from this pay phone, invite the citizens of the Republic of Croatia not to be discouraged but to go towards the charges and to the CNB, but ultimately it will also be lawsuits against the Croatian state because this violation of the law is absolutely unbearable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46473	Next individual debate, distinguished MP Domagoj, Milan Vrkljan. All right, he's gone, he's losing his right. The following is an individual debate, the esteemed representative of the Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46474	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, unfortunately the epidemic of the coronal virus and the locking of the economy that followed led to damage to the economy around the world, in Europe and so on in Croatia. We see that more or less from the CNB reports. We have a drop in employment, a rise in unemployment. Of course, the highest deficit has increased, and as a result, public debt growth has been marked. In addition, we have other harmful things for an economy such as a decline in consumption. In particular, we must point out that this is where the dependence on tourism came from. Croatia is a tourist country, tourism will always be an important part of Croatia's economy, but apart from the seasonality which is a problem for tourism in Croatia, we see that the dependence on tourism will therefore become one stumbling block for the Croatian economy. As for the very growth of public debt he grew that due to an epidemic of corona virus. But we must also say that the conukture in the European economy in the last five years that has spread over to the Croatian economy has allowed income growth and growth in gross social product. The objective government could have used the last five years to better set things up in the Croatian economy, could have reduced public debt to a greater extent, and even now that there has been a crisis and public debt growth, the public debt would be lower today than it is than it has been for the last five years. What we discussed last week in the Assembly is a national recovery and reconstruction plan. The part of the reconstruction for Croatia was added due to the earthquake, although we know that the renovation has not yet started at all, even though it has been more than a year. This National Recovery and Reconstruction Plan, let us all hope that it will be used to boost the Croatian economy. But we all know that, and it was said last week in the Parliament. The money will be managed by politicians, bureaucrats, which could go wrong. However, more than the National Recovery Plan itself, I think we can rely on the European Central Bank, its policy in terms of providing part of the money, liquidity in the economy that will end in one way or another with commercial banks and ultimately in the economy. Let us hope that the National Recovery Plan will lead to as much money withdrawing from European funds as possible, to make as much use of this European money as possible for the economy. However, I think that the money the European Central Bank is letting into the economy will still have much better consequences. That's what I'm saying because the recovery from the last crisis that started in 2008 was due to the policy of quantitative easing of the Central Banks of Japan, the American and others. It was then that the recovery of the American and other economies began over a few years. Unfortunately, the European economy has stagnated until 2015 when the policy of quantitatively dropping the European Central Bank began, so let's hope that this policy will also lead to economic growth. Yes, the question is, of course, whether it will create a problem as inflation has already been mentioned today, but since this policy has been led since 2015 we know that by 2020 there has been economic growth, inflation has not been a problem. Let's hope that's the way it's gonna be in the future. What we especially need to be concerned about is this growth and public debt, because it can lead to two things. We will see what kind of situation the Croatian economy will be in afterwards. In the event that public debt will be a bigger problem, it will be if severe austerity measures are to be implemented which will lead to a further decline in GDP to cut the public debt. Another possibility is that the economy will stand better, but in this case the public debt again makes it impossible for Croatia's middle class to be disbursed in a more significant way in the future, especially in Croatia's middle class, and thus to encourage the Croatian economy. Also, of course, since we talked about the report today, there was no relevant topic, and this is the question of how the growth of public debt as a consequence of the Coronal Virus epidemic will affect the introduction of the euro. Whether this will shift the time of the euro's introduction that Croatian citizens mean they use the euro in the future. This is important for the strength of the Croatian economy if we want to build a common European market. It is certainly important that there is a common currency, and also some of the problems that we have had in history if we look at the last ten years with currency clauses certainly would not exist if Croatia used the euro. Let us hope that, therefore, it will not be delayed for longer because of the corona virus's introduction of the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46475	Replica's esteemed representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow, you were talking about the state of public debt. I think in one part you mentioned actually the state of the economy how quickly we're going to get out of the crisis, that is, we're talking about private debt, so we're talking about the debt of citizens and the long company. That's what the problem is, what I was actually trying to say at the outset is how many unpaid claims are going to be, that's what we already know from these MPLs, from these 32 billion kuna moratories next year on the debt market. We already know that's gonna happen. And that's what we should already have some instruments for citizens who are now in the moratorium, and still can't find on the market, I can't find, we don't know what our tourist season is like, it's a big problem and we don't know what business balances are. Well, maybe that's my question to the governor if it's final, because I know they've been doing an analysis of how many and how capable Croatian firms are for the new investment cycle and for the new economic activity after this covid crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46477	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46478	I agree with what you said about the debt of the citizens. I referred first of all to the debt of the state because at the end of the day the state withdraws most of the money from the Croatian economy and certainly when we look at the problems in Croatia that we had with state companies, with subsidies, with the corruption that was related to it has always proved that the best way to support the economy is to cut taxes. You too were Minister of the Government of Zoran Milanovic when the income tax was significantly reduced, helping Croatian families, but it was also a good incentive for the economy. That is why I wanted first of all to refer to the public debt of Croatia. I believe that in the last five years, before the Coronal Virus epidemic, more could be done to reduce public debt. The result would be that the public debt ahead of the Coronal Virus epidemic would be lower because of the lockdown and all of course there would be a rise in public debt, but it would be lower public debt than it would be now which would again be much better for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46479	Following is the final debate on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Governor Boris Vujčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46480	Thank you very much for your discussion and your questions. I think I'll try to answer what the esteemed representative Kristo said first. Then somehow I'll combine these discussions on macroeconomic, public debt, interest, surplus liquidity and MPLs. As regards this information on money laundering, it is completely unethical, so the European Central Bank has not informed the Croatian National Bank of something in the Unicredit, but it is the contrary to the supervision of the Croatian National Bank that there have been irregularities in the reporting and prevention of money laundering and, in addition to the fact that it has been notified to the European Central Bank, the European Central Bank and the European Commission will assess in any way the CNB in its work cycle, although it is only one of the institutions that is fighting against the prevention of money rights, we also have an office to prevent money, all reporting units, etc. which must also be fought against, we will have that assessment in the process of entering the euro area. So if we don't do it right, we're not going into the euro zone. That's exactly one of our criteria, one of the four criteria that we're looking at, and I'm quite confident that we're being watched by our colleagues from Europe that they're just convinced that we're doing very well, and I think the fact that we started in the biggest bank and that's how we did it, I'm not going to brag about my own people, but I think they got off to a very good start on that job and it's going to be evaluated that way. As for the sale of claims, the Agency for the collection of claims, I fully agree that there are problems and that this is an area that needs to be further regulated. However, what needs to be known, and Agent Kristo was in the CNB, and we explained to her that with no regulation, the CNB has been designated as the competent supervisory authority of the Agency for the collection of claims but is exclusively a supervisory body which controls the application of only certain rules governing the sale of credit institutions. In other words, at the moment these agencies are not in any particular law, and especially in order for someone to be in charge of the CNB to be regulated. However, at this point, there is a working group working on the Credit Service Service Service Providers Directive for credit customers and collecting collateral that standardises the regulatory regime at EU level, meaning definitions, authorisation for the work, supervision and rules of operations of those agencies. As we know, they have grown largely in the volume of business since the major financial crisis in 2009. when a lot of credit came into the status of non-payment loans and largely the banks sold these loans. Of course, the possibility of selling the loan of the Cessium is again fully governed by a different law, which is the Law on Mandatory Relations. The 80th regulates the system as a contract between the parties with it, the CNB has nothing to do again, and what is also the fact that the bank secret to which the esteemed representative was also called in the event of the sale of the claim, so the bank can be excluded from that bank secret, it is the same in the zoo. The 157th century 3rd and the point. 2. Here, so much eye, about that. I would also say that in December of last year, a working group has been formed at the Ministry of Finance which is tasked with the proposal for a law which would then adapt the regulatory framework of the Republic of Croatia, after the adoption of the directive at EU level, in order to transpose EU regulatory initiatives related to the problem. As far as the other questions are concerned, I'd say a little bit, those are macro questions that I think are very good and that concern one side of what we expect with uncharging claims. On the other hand, concerning some of our assessments that might happen after creating such high liquidity, it is correctly said that 65 billion kuna is currently structurally surplus liquidity, which is huge, no. But that means that banks overnight in the CNB every night, 95 billion kunas per interest rate 0%, and they can place them at an interest rate of 2-3-4-5%, instead they prefer to hold 0% in the CNB. As I once said, it means what central banks can do, and this is now a feature of the position of most central banks or large central banks, not just the CNB, the European Central Bank. For example. You can sort of lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink. As much as we create excess liquidity if the banks prefer to hold that liquidity at 0% or hold it if it is exchangeable at a negative interest rate, the kuna holds at zero, all they have foreign exchange payments in minus is about 55 cents the cost of holding 0.55%, means the cost of holding foreign foreign foreign deposits. If they prefer to pay negatively that interest rate or zero than to place those funds then the problem is somewhere else, then the problem is that they don't have that demand where they could place loans by means of the risk they're willing to take at that point. At this point as I was saying about a third of all loans in the corporate sector, so in the citizenship sector the situation is much better, but in corporate loans about a third of all these loans is either in phase 2 or 3, so they have a problem with the payment, so that's every third credit. This is potentially a very high loss for banks and therefore banks are cautious about giving new loans. As far as moratorium is concerned, we have this data at the end, so far it's only at the end of 2020, it didn't have 31.3. So we have 24.5 billion kuna of remaining moratories. And as I said, a small portion refers to households, only 3.3 billion kuna, non-financial corporations 11.5 and other sectors of 9.7 billion kuna. However, what is important here again, and I said that the share of these loans in phase 2 has increased and the banks have started to make bigger reservations without advertising them as non-income discounts. How it will end in the end is certainly going to be a significant part of these loans that are now in phase 2 seen as non-income loans when it comes to reclassification. As much as I'd say again it's hard at this point to say exactly still because of the high uncertainty of the pandemic. We, it will really depend in Croatia at this time for the next 6 months most on how measures will be mitigated or what will happen to the tourist season. Most of these corporate loans that are in a difficult position are precisely hotels, food services, hotel services, catering and transport, carriers. So the ones most affected by these measures. If season means what is said 5.9% is currently the forecast of CNB for GDP growth in 2021. I must say, in that assessment of GDP growth, the assumption is that tourism will be at 68% in 2019. So higher than 2020. Whether or not this will be realised there is uncertainty and the most depends on how, what will happen to the measures and when the journeys to Europe will primarily take place which is our main market. As far as this high liquidity is concerned, whether it will affect inflation has already been an issue of inflation before. I'd say it's still worth the old one that printing money creates a price hike. However, it creates it at this point not only in Croatia but in Europe as a whole, America, on the international market, primarily through the rise in the prices of financial assets, not through the rise in prices of what we define as a basket of goods. Where you see the real effect of printing money, inflation, stock price, bonds, real estate that you also mentioned, while the rise in the price of a basket of goods we take to the consumer price index is limited by strong competition on the international market. So we have a situation where today's competition is global. You as a company if you decide to significantly raise the price you have to be very careful that someone else doesn't come and take some of your market, and that someone can come from South Africa, Brazil, China, Germany, anywhere today. So the competition is extremely large and globalisation and the drop in transport prices, so the transport prices have fallen incredibly in the last 20, 30 years, which allows great competition on the market, retaining these prices under control. Other things that are behind this are the strong productivity growth in emerging countries, China primarily but also other countries,.../incomprehensible/... a super-cycle of 30 years of extremely high productivity growth to a large extent because they had, because these countries had a very large pool of labour that they translated from agriculture which is very low-productive in the industry that is highly productive in terms of agriculture and this productivity growth has created pressures on them not to grow strongly despite the printing of money and everything else. The moment this pool of labour is slowly being exhausted, you already have the transfer of part of the production from China to Vietnam, Cambodia, meaning countries that have lower salaries, and there the wages are growing rapidly, when we get to that waga push component of inflation that will be on the international level, we need to think truly internationally when we look at it, we can't just watch Croatia because Croatia is an open, small open economy, then we can expect a rise in prices, consumer prices. But this CPI or consumer price index as we know it. When's that gonna be? In three, four years, it's hard to predict. Many times already, people predicted that inflation prices would rise, so it didn't happen. What is happening now is that these power plants that have been working on productivity growth and kept low prices are turning in a different direction, but we have a new component, which is robotics. So to the extent that robotics will increase productivity and keep the wages controlled again, it can happen that despite this high, expensive monetary policy, CPI means these prices of goods that we spend the most on remain limited due to the high growth of the production caused by robotics. So these are all the components that will impact in the future, affect it. Of course, the increase in inflation would be a particularly rapid increase in inflation would have an extremely strong impact on the financial markets and would lead to change, sudden changes, or expectations for this to happen, would lead to a sudden change in prices and shares and bonds, and then eventually real estate. What this excessive liquidity does at the moment, although it does not create an offer of credit or placement to the extent that it could hold interest rates at historically lowest levels and interest rates will continue to fall, but that does not mean that much more credit will be necessary. So it'll be cheaper, but it doesn't mean the volume increases that much. Public debt, I said the same thing, and that would end with it, of course, is something that is especially important for a country the size of Croatia and Croatia's credit rating, and it must not increase too much. Especially now by entering the Eurozone I would say to some if we are entering the Eurozone we can have a greater public debt, the European Central Bank will be behind us, but there will come a time when it will not be so, believe me. I don't know if it will come in 2, 3 or 4 years, but the public debt will be seen within Europe and it will be better in that group of countries that have no excessive public debt and as such we need to join the monetary union and we need to stay there. Current projections again say the public debt will shrink again to 60%. I think that level of 60% is one good goal for a country the size of Croatia. Of course it depends on fiscal policy, so on growth. The best we can do again I will return to structural reforms that stimulate growth because rapid growth reduces the share of public debt, and allows taxes to drop at the same time, if GDP does not grow, then taxes cannot fall. So it's connected, and the most function at this point, I'd say, with a macroeconomically-manageric combination of monetary fiscal, there's no room anymore, there's what can be done. It is now a matter of structural policies, to increase the potential growth rate and thus reduce public debt. As for the introduction of the euro and public debt, we will practically be in the 5th month. Now, on spring, have an EU Commission assessment to say whether, again, it gives... the fiscal criteria she gave in 2020 due to the pandemic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At that time, she said she would not initiate an excessive deficit procedure against EU countries because it is a pandemic. If it does so in the spring of this year, then it will be a question of interpretation whether it applies to nominal convergence criteria, entering the monetary union, if it applies, that would allow us to enter the excessive deficit procedure without entering the excessive deficit procedure, we can enter the monetary union within the fastest time period, which is 2023, otherwise it will be delayed. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46481	Here, we have a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vujčić, thank you for your comments on the Agency's ransom claim. In one of your last, not yours, but the CNB's macro-procedural diagnostics, it is warned, among other things, that it is inaccessible claims from citizens pose systemic risks. On the one hand, I think, so the CNB obviously recognizes the problem, and you have also expressed various aspects of it and of its competence, unclear regulation, etc., so whether the CNB is, say, or whether it is your opinion that the CNB could, within some period of time, come up with a set of recommendations that would, for example, be just as bold as things that we can read in macroprudential diagnostics that are genuine, among other things, and based on facts, and are related, specifically to such things. Because, on the one hand, if the bank or whatever the original owner of the claim is able to accept 20% of the debt, why wouldn't they, why would they sell it? Well, then, is it? [[Intruder: Time.]] Because that only increases this risk that is being warned of. Thank you, I've extended a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46483	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46484	That's a good question. That's not clear to many, I'll try to explain. First of all, I would say that the CNB has already made a decision on the purchase of plasma and it was done in 2013 when we saw that banks are starting to do so, and we have asked these decisions regarding the purchase of plasma for the purchase of plasma not the ones that put the debtor in a worse position than it was before. And that the bank is solidly responsible with the Agency means that it has to be careful what it does if it brings the consumer into a worse position. So we can't raise the interest rate or any conditions of that loan. Now, why are the banks selling it? At 20, let's say Lippa, for the kuna, because if they forgive the debt 80%, then there's always a moral gambling that others will see it, stop paying back the loans and also ask that the bank and it's a huge risk for the bank and therefore rather sell that someone else is charging it than saying, okay, so that there's no financial indiscipline, that people don't start using it wrongly. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46485	Next replica, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Governor, so what you said and actually my exposure was, structural excess liquidity, 65 billion kuna, and now that they're listening to Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs now in this crisis, in the CNB or.../incomprehensible/... it's 65 billion kuna per 0%, right? And now I'm here, I understand that anymore, you have nothing to do with it, you've secured the expansion, and it stands at 65 billion kuna per 0%, and now the entrepreneur says, so I have to come to me, pay something, so I can pay the season now, so I can open the season, so I'll go back, etc. And on the other hand, we only have the integrity of systems and states through HBOR and HAMAG, right? We now have one such paradox situation, that there's 0% money, and that entrepreneurs can't secure the season. And now I'm appealing here to the government. She has to go into economic restructuring. We don't know what it's going to be, it's probably this sequel to what you're actually saying, the government has to pass some kind of law, what are we going to call it? ... like somehow in America, he has to go into restructuring, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Especially the service sector because it can't have that flow heater stuck somewhere. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46487	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46488	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46489	Yeah, okay. It's not there yet, we're working here, but it's not over yet, so what we've been doing before, which has shown that a third at this point is creditworthy, now it's going to be less, just waiting for the pandemic to end that at this point doesn't make sense with the uncertainty about the pandemic, but we'll have that too. And that's what we're very interested in. As for this other one, I'd just like to remind you that we've launched an initiative for something called Covid Score. So as soon as the pandemic starts, that's a good thing. It's something that FINA needs to collect data from companies that are in trouble and integrate data, not only on their debt to banks but also on the tax administration and other institutions, on employees and on everything and this Covid score then it could be a good basis for banks to decide on the client's creditworthiness, whether it can give him credit, whether or not it's up to the state itself to decide whether to give him additional support or not, or whether it makes sense, whether that company has a potential life or not, if it doesn't, it has to go into restructuring because otherwise you're throwing away money that's never going to Come back. [[Intruder: Time.]] And if we had a united system, that Covid score is a good thing, and I hope we're going to be completely there soon. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46490	The next replica is the esteemed representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46491	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Governor, in the past year, the so-called "Governmental" has happened. foreign swap. Exchange of kuna for euro at 2 billion euros, which also maintained exchange rate stability. Can you explain to us how this happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46492	So the beginning of the crisis, so you know what happens, every crisis when there's a lot of suspense, what the Croats do, they run into foreign exchanges. It's been like that for decades, and it's been showing up again this time. So when this crisis began, a large number of people began to turn their kunas back into foreign exchanges in panic if you remember the 3rd, 4th months. It all closes down, we watch pictures from Italy, people don't know what's going to happen, and that's why it was just a panic at that moment that we had to calm down. So that's what I used to do every week on TV, say, "Calm down, it's gonna be good," on the other hand we sold 2.7 billion euros to banks to meet the demand for foreign exchanges, and in 6 weeks, it's in a very short period, it's really a situation where a lot of people were walking around the city and said kuna would depreciate 20.30%, people change quickly everything you have in foreign exchanges, and that's really a situation where if you don't stop it, you risk your entire financial system falling apart. Fortunately, we managed to stop it because we had large reserves, that we reacted in time, and that we were also in some kind of conversation with financial participants, all convinced that no one was in the interest of that moment. from the big players to go towards depression because they'll all lose and people figured it out in that moment. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Even big banks and big investment funds and everybody. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And finally we got a swap deal with the European Central Bank which is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46493	Next replica, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46494	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Governor, I mentioned in my statement that China is, in fact, the only country in the world that concluded with growth in 2020, unlike both the Euro zone and the EU and the United States, etc. and that when it looks further than 2020, that in 2021, it has already jumped 18% significantly, their GDP compared to all others. And it's even expected to be a 7.9 growth somewhere, I think, in 2021. How do you actually interpret this one specificity of world scales?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46495	Well this is primarily the consequence that China as such has the greatest growth potential of all major economies in the world, without further an epidemic or without epidemic, they are still in that cycle of high productivity growth, they are very organized, so they know what they are doing, they have raised at this point the capital equipment of their production to a level of already developed countries, so they are already highly developed and still... part of the population of very low productive activities in increasingly productive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they still have the next 10 years of high growth potential. And they were able to control the pandemic quickly as another thing. Of course, in their own way, Chinese which may not be in democratic societies as easily applied as there but that's their way, they managed to quickly control it, so they had relatively less costs of lockdown or closing the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46496	The last replica, the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46497	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Governor, that part of your exposure to real estate and real estate prices, that is, the price of apartments on the market. There were always some locations in Croatia that were attractive and that had a higher price of apartments, so it was the city of Zagreb and it was a coastal line. After the earthquake in Zagreb, in the city of Zagreb the prices of apartments, new apartments went really amazing to the sky, but we have another process when the state decided, so the state can intervene with a stable housing policy. These housing policies are different, in some countries, in some working cities so they build apartments for rent, they build some other models, we decided the government decided to subscribe to loans, so put the citizens back on depending on the banks, so to speak, and that all indicators show that it was one of the increased prices of a square meter apartment, so this earthquake added something else, but you have certainly analysis of the relationship when the state intervenes and increased prices of real estate squares. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46498	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46499	Thank you very much. Yes, we've been doing an analysis that shows that APN contributed during the period that we analyzed the price of apartments for 20 percent and some percent, now I don't remember exactly how much, I think 23.4 percent that was APN and 75.6 were other factors that contributed, among other things, to the earthquake, is it, where people started looking for new properties outside the centre of Zagreb, while in the center of Zagreb there was no liquidity so it doesn't reflect on these measured prices and the third factor that is important, that is, probably, at this moment, what we talked about, these 65... Let's connect it, 65 billion kn liquidity, means the banks are paying for a zero deposit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The banks have too much money. Now in foreign deposits they even charge... Yes... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People get 0% in the bank, they start pulling money out of banks and investing in real estate. They're going to rent for as long as possible, I'm going to have a profit of 3, 4, 5%, no, and it's also pushing prices up because people are pulling deposits out of banks and putting in real estate that creates a very high demand, which is one of the consequences of this expansional monetary policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46500	Thank you, Governor. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. [[Intruder Vujčić: Thank you.]] Now, you have to take a break for 10 minutes for air, and we're going to continue at 17 and 20. It's a 17, 10 o'clock meeting. The next item of the agenda is - Final draft law supplementing the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 106. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16,20 HOURS]] The SDP representative club shall be proposed on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 174 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal following the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Construction. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an explanation? Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46503	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected State Secretarys of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings was adopted in 2012 and has been amended on three occasions. On the other hand, the devastating earthquakes that hit the city of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County in March 2020, and Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovačka County in December 2020. They've done a lot of damage in all these areas. According to rough estimates after the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County, damages were reported to nearly 45,000 buildings, while 26000 were reported after the earthquake in Zagreb. The Croatian Parliament has adopted the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged in the area of the city of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County, and following the earthquakes that took place in December 2020, it has also initiated amendments to that law in order to extend its scope to the consequences of these other earthquakes. The Law on the Reconstruction of Buildings in Article 15 provides that existing damaged buildings and buildings which are not considered as existing illegally built buildings are to be renewed under that law, but only if the law is passed within the prescribed specific law and if they are legal. A special law is considered to be the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, so this law that we propose to amend. It also restores buildings where the construction elements of the building have been illegally reconstructed or removed, i.e. unlawful changes affecting the building’s mechanical resistance and stability, if the owner or co-owner agrees to return the building to a state before an unlawful reconstruction affecting mechanical resistance and stability or agree to reconstruction until the required degree of mechanical resistance and stability, and after all costs related to it are secured. The real situation after the earthquake showed that a number of citizens in the earthquake affected by the affected areas were due to their lack of guidance, whether because of a poor financial situation, did not comply with the provisions of the law on the law of their houses applied within the prescribed time limit, and these houses as well as others were damaged or destroyed in earthquakes. For these reasons, their houses do not fall within the scope of the Rehabilitation Act, which in practice means that these houses cannot and will not be renewed unless the deadlines laid down in this law are extended. With this law, we propose to extend the deadlines of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings from 30 June 2018 to 30 June 2021 but only in areas affected by the earthquake in March and December 2020. In this way, that part of the buildings affected by these earthquakes would be included within the scope of the Rehabilitation Act, which shall be submitted to the competent administrative authority by 30 June 2021 at the latest. The adoption of this law would indirectly extend the scope of only the Law on Reconstruction and to illegally built buildings which are not legalised or for them until 30 June 2018. an application for legalisation provided that those structures are subject to a new legalisation application until 30 June 2021, respectively. Since the process of legalising the building is urgent and the competent public legal authority is obliged to resolve it no later than 30 days from the date of receipt of the notification to the Reconstruction Fund that it depends on the resolution of the requirements for the law of the building, it is expected that the restoration of damaged or destroyed buildings could be carried out more fully, and for the purpose of which the Law on Reconstruction and adoption is intended to help citizens and to create conditions for the establishment of normal life in earthquakes affected, the more the implementation of the Law on Reconstruction is defined as the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the public interest. Taking care of such a state of affairs, and in the context of the financing of reconstruction as many buildings as possible damaged or destroyed in last year's earthquakes, the Republic of Croatia would assume more fully its obligations as a social state in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and care for the economic development of all its regions. Simply put, the change of this law would allow citizens to apply for legalisation in the earthquake of damaged or destroyed houses, which is a prerequisite for those houses to be renewed in the process prescribed by the Rehabilitation Act, realistically to be renewed at all. As a result, the reconstruction of these houses would allow for a more complete realization of the whole reitalisation of the area in the City of Zagreb, Krapinsko-Zagorje, Zagrebačka, Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovak County, which should certainly be the goal of the Republic of Croatia. And probably everything else would be left on one opposition bill that the Government will refuse, if we didn't get the opinion of the Government, which should be included in the textbooks of cynicism by principle, Đura will forgive you for beating you up, and it says: "The proposed solution is flat-rate, given that they put citizens in a more favourable position whose properties were lost in an earthquake, which would thus exercise the right to both law and refurbishment in relation to other owners of illegally built unlawful buildings that would not have any rights to the status of their property." So the message is better to have a collapsed building in an area where there's an earthquake than an illegal building in an area where there's no earthquake. This should indeed be congratulated on the governmental justification for the pride of all those who took part in writing such an opinion and on the pride of the Prime Minister who signed this opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46504	A few replicas. The first replica of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk will be time for this opening presentation of yours to say something during the time I speak on behalf of the club, perhaps individually, I don't know, but what I would ask you here is that you have thoroughly read the introductory explanation of the law itself to tell us what is the scope of the houses that this law would allow legalization? So, do you have the number of objects that would allow you to report your illegal building by June 30th? I think it's very important for the later debate that we can discuss and discuss better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46506	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46507	Thank you. We passed this law on January 20th, and today somewhere on April 20th, so in three months, the government could determine how many such buildings would be, and of course, it could have done the renovation better than it does. So all I can tell you is that when we're in a position to run a government, you'll at least get an answer to this question that you asked, which the government should answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46508	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46509	Thank you very much. So, you've decided to go with an amendment to the Law on Legalization, I think there may have been a basis for the motion to amend and supplement the Law on Reconstruction, so we say something. But imagine the next case, the illegal house, the house collapsed in an earthquake, the state would tear that house down to the end, people would put it in a container and the house wouldn't rebuild because they had an illegal house, people would stay in a container like the potatoes don't know until when, and those people on that say it's out of the building area, let's go to the end, they can't even get a building permit, and they can't even have the desire and will legalize in the existing gabarites. So, the way in which the Rehabilitation Act did not in any way refer to the fact that there is illegal construction unlike some other cases is very, very interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46510	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46511	You have very well described the reasons for proposing this law, but for these people you mentioned the Government is afraid that they will not be privileged, it says in their explanation. I wonder if they're normal? So this would all be like this to the level of the opposition ruling debate if the maltenes didn't make fun of this argument. Not to us, but to citizens who have a problem that needs to be solved somehow, otherwise they'll be left without a house and no legalization, and no property with containers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46512	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46513	The state always helps in case a major natural disaster or a higher power occurs. Whether it's earthquakes or floods, so the state is in such a difficult situation to help, it's beyond the possibility of people predicting, to prevent it in such situations, especially if they hit such a wide circle of people. Croatia certainly as a social state should help, it should go out to meet people. It is good of course for these citizens and individuals for some sense of security in the country, but it is certainly good for the Croatian economy as well. In this way we give an impulse to economic development and restoration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46514	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46515	Thank you. So we've seen the problem and we've proposed a solution and we can be prepared to listen to a better solution by the government, withdraw our proposal and wait for this to be a better government proposal, but here I don't see the government seeing this as a problem. And these stories of how good this is now to delay the problem for a while, but I would like to hear from the government's representatives in addressing whether this problem wants to be solved in some other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46516	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46517	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Bauk, therefore, this bill suggests that this deadline for the application for building law be extended for buildings from the area affected by the earthquake until 30 June 2021, and therefore states that it refers to the territory of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska, Zagreb, Sisak-Moslavina and Karlova County. Now my question is, for example, in the area of my county, therefore Varazdine, due to these earthquakes, and in March and December, several buildings were also damaged, some of them may have been illegally built, so it seems to me that then such a bill of law would be on the trail of what counterpart Bacic said to the same person was brought into an unequal position. Also, in case we have a future, don't give God any other natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, are we going to change that law again to bring some new lex specialis because if we don't, then we're going to bring those people who are going to be affected by these natural disasters into an unequal position again. In other words, all this together that you suggested, however good it is, I'm afraid it would fall in the event of a consent assessment. with the Constitution in the Constitutional Court itself. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46518	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46519	This debate of yours made sense during the Rehabilitation Act, if there were several cases in your county, then you should have added that it also refers to your county, not now. So, it seems a little bit like you slept through that part. I want you to know that there is no earthquake of magnitude in your county 5, 6 or as much as it is in mine and in everyone else, but when it happens, if such a disaster occurs, whose scale of the prime minister described it as something in 140 years that didn't happen in Zagreb, then I guess if it happens again in 140 years, some other assembly of the Croatian Parliament, which I'm pretty sure I won't be in it to react to, which is another way to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46520	Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Dear Secretary of State, Dunja Magash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46521	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are proposing to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings with the final bill submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the SDP for the following reasons. The proposer proposes this bill to allow applications for the legalisation of all buildings which have not been legalised or for which no application for legislation has been submitted, if damaged in earthquakes on 22 March and 28 December 2020, respectively. It is certain that the devastating earthquakes that hit Croatia in March and December 2020 unfortunately caused huge material damage to the buildings in the earthquake-affected area. For their renewal, a special legal framework of the Rehabilitation Act was established and adopted. The law on the treatment of illegally built buildings deals with the complex subject matter of law enforcement of illegally built buildings and, before any intervention in the law, it is necessary to make a detailed analysis of the impact that this regulation has produced in the current application since 2012, and in particular the analysis of damage data on illegally built buildings caused by earthquakes which has not been made in this case. The Law on dealing with illegally built buildings was passed in 2012 and has been amended and completed 3 times to date. More than 800,000 requests have been received under this law for the issue of a solution on the state of play or for the legalisation of illegally built buildings. Within a reasonable period, the competent administrative authorities have resolved most of the applications received. At the same time, reading this bill could conclude that more favourably, citizens whose properties were injured in an earthquake would thus be entitled to legal and refurbishment rights than other owners of illegally built unlawful buildings that would not have any right to the status of their property. This legislative solution would certainly further extend the state of play itself, given that it should first be determined whether the buildings for which the request for a solution on the state of play is indeed damaged in earthquakes, and all of this would also lead to extensions of the procedures for making the decision itself. I would like to point out that the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska, Zagreb and Sisak-Moslavina and Karlova County have also taken into account damaged buildings for which no solutions on the state of play have been made, but a request has been submitted within the prescribed time limit and will be decided urgently. According to the requirements so far processed, it was found that the large number of damaged buildings were not required to be built before 15 February '68, which were considered to be buildings built on the basis of a powerful building permit or for construction of buildings, whereas in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County it was built, reconstructed, renovated and refurbished in the implementation of refurbishing regulations or regulations on areas of special state care which are also considered to be buildings built, reconstructed, renovated and reassessed on the basis of a powerful building permit in accordance with the Construction Act, provided that the construction body issues a useful permit, which are simple and do not require large costs for citizens. At the same time, it is important to point out, in the current implementation of the Law on the Reconstruction of Earthquake-damaged buildings, we have not found that the applicant must refuse to renew the request, because his damaged building in the earthquake is illegal, or that it does not meet that criterion in the process of making decisions on the right to rebuild. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the proposed law and proposes to HS not to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46522	We've got a few replicas, the first distinguished representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46523	In the last sentence you said you didn't find out, which can basically be true because if people know they can't handle it, then they're not that they couldn't, they couldn't, they couldn't handle it, so you couldn't even determine, but I'm curious, do you see this as a problem? So if there are people who can't get their right to rebuild because of this deadline, and according to the law that is in force, if they had applied for legalization, so they didn't write a law for themselves, but the state wrote a law by which they would have the right, do you see it as a problem and how do you plan to solve it if you see it as a problem? That's the key question of this, this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46524	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46525	Thanks for asking, I'll answer right now. What the government managed to obtain from the data, given that we do not have how many damaged buildings that are illegal, but we have data, let's say, for Sisak-Moslavina County at the moment there are 29,384 buildings that, together with green labels, we also know, for Sisak-Moslavina County that we have damaged buildings in the war, what I mentioned, where we have the application of art. 176 Construction Act, which can be obtained in a very simple way using permits, we have such 18 562 buildings, and from our information system of spatial planning can be seen that in Sisak-Moslavina County there are, I will say, legalized plots, even if it is a false term because one solution to the execution can legalise more buildings, but we have issued 35 710 solutions about the state of play. If we did some kind of math, we can see that it's far more Legal buildings compared to these buildings that were even listed as damaged by the earthquake. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46526	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46527	Dear Representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is ashamed of the cynicism with which you explain why you do not support this proposal for amending and supplementing the law. You say, not one, not a single solution, because it has an illegal building, as far as I know, you've issued a total of 3 solutions so far over the past year, and then it's quite.../incomprehensible/... and you have a total of 100 and something requirements, 15 days ago it was the data with which it was handled. Of all 60 and several thousand facilities in the City of Zagreb, Sisak-moslavina, Karlovačko and Krapina-Zagorje County, I ask you. We've been on, I don't know if you've been on the Committee on Space Planning, then I'll quote the minister, we know about this problem, and we'll offer some sort of solution to the programme of measures. Or was I sitting on my ears?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46528	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46529	Thank you very much for asking. We don't have to be cynical or I'm cynical. As the minister said, this government will take care of every family that is in need and whose building is damaged. It's just that we need to prepare ourselves for the best solution, and the minister has offered to cover this with the programme, if at that moment we have all the data we need and what measures are possible through the programme, but at least we're going to propose, and if necessary, we're going to change the law. ... Some things can't be solved by the programme of measures, can be mentioned as some sort of, as part of the finding and the facts, but such things will certainly be dealt with by some law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Either the Law on Reconstruction or the Law on Construction or the Law on the Treatment of Irregular Buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46530	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46531	The Honorable Chairman has been injured. 238, insulting the MPs. The MPs here clearly asked if the government had an answer, the colleagues said there was no present and they didn't see it as a problem. I've been sitting on the same board that she's on, where it's said that the government sees it as a problem and will give some kind of a solution. I don't know what we're talking about here. These things that come out here offend common sense, both us advocates and people who watch.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46532	So it's not a representative, it's common sense, so you get a warning because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238. Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Brumnic, disrespects all other MPs, and I think you should have given him a warning. He insults the government's representative to be ashamed and ashamed of the government of that one, and then it's directed to her, and he's insensitively self-inflicted by what she is. The secretary of state responds with information that may not be correct, I say they are correct, but then he says he's being disrespected by the state secretary's information. I think he requested a colleague. Brumnic immediately warned about what he said in his first report, when he gave the replica. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46534	He's got a warning, and now you're getting a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46535	Thank you very much. So today we have an amendment and an addition to the Law on Legalization. But it is exclusively related to the Law on Reconstruction, so the Law on Reconstruction after the earthquake which was in the area of the City of Zagreb, Zagreb County, Krapina-Zagorska, Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovakia. You know very well that the law is applied through the programme of measures. The programme of measures was adopted on 22 January this year and in this programme measures, when it comes to, I have watched only when it comes to the destruction and construction of replacement family houses is the basic condition that the house was to have the appropriate documentation, so that according to the provisions of the second Construction Act it was legal. I have to continue to ask that theoretical question that I and Mr. Bauk, in the replica, so the state will tear down the house that collapsed and was illegal, people are placed in a container, and the state will no longer renew anything because the house was illegal. What are you going to do with these people? They don't even have 100 kunas when you turn them upside down to get into any process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46536	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46537	I've answered that before. The government will consider each individual case and based on the fact that they are on the ground when they see how many such buildings there are, such families will, in need, make an adequate solution that they are not on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46538	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46539	Thank you. Dear Government Secretary of State Magash, you have not answered our question here today, do you see that people in the reconstruction are mostly in Sisak-Moslavina, Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje, the Carlova County and the City of Zagreb having problems with illegal objects, so I ask you in particular in which cases and under what conditions the prescribed law of the party means the applicant... who has made a timely request the same can change or submit others? I am further interested in whether the applicant may amend the same in a way that only the applicant means his name and last name, so that the rights and obligations resulting from the completion of the procedure under that request are assumed by the new applicant and, if possible, to be used by whose institution the modification of the application is changed by the applicant himself. I would like to know what act or act makes a statement of will to amend the request.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46540	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46541	I didn't just understand what law, the Law on Legalisation or the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings or the basis of the Rehabilitation Act? The Rehabilitation Act. ... Yeah, the Law of Legalization. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have here regarding this law and administrative and judicial practice that, if the amendment of the request changes completely to the fact that you have amendments to the requirements relating to completely other cities, other municipalities and other investors, then the case-law has shown that this cannot be considered an amendment to the request. But if something can be connected to that investor and that part of it is to amend the requirements and supplement the requirements can be when it comes to the same cadastrian particle, so that the applicant can, wants to legalise more buildings and has submitted for only one building or something like that. So, there are various situations, but what I first said was that some kind of drastic difference that is a court practice has shown that you can't be considered that... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46542	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46543	Unfortunately, people lost their homes with families practically on the road. They can't possibly be privileged in any way. What I am particularly concerned about, the SDP Representatives Club put this in the process by act on 20 January 2021. It's been three months. That's what we're talking about right now. We need to act as soon as possible and I think this law should be in the process as soon as possible. We need to act as soon as possible to help people. It has been more than a year in Zagreb the reconstruction has not begun. A similar situation is unfortunately for those areas affected by the earthquake at the end of last year. We need to start helping people as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46544	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46545	Thank you very much for asking. I can only say that the government and my ministry are making huge efforts to speed up the reconstruction process. The entire ministry, all administrations are in function of this event of two earthquakes. My colleagues help each other and work on Saturdays and Sundays and talks with a lot of people who need and advice, and opinions and guide them on the right path. We've brought a legal framework. We are making and setting up a new sector for natural disasters that rights to decisions, or rights to recovery decisions. The solutions are being made. There are already 60 people in the sector, and when those decisions are already put in place a fund that implements and calls for competitions for both designers and other participants in the reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46546	Time. Okay. Thank you to the secretary of state. Would the Committee's rapporteurs like to take the floor of the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Spatial Planning? There isn't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the distinguished representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. He's gone, he's losing his right. The next debate is on behalf of Green-left bloc MP Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46547	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the legalisation process, those who have access to information and administration and those from rural areas are placed in an unequal position. It is not simply the same position as the architects from Zagreb and someone who, for example, is retired from the May Pole. When the law was passed, the State did not provide direct and mobile assistance to those not located in the administration or, for example, living in isolated areas where they have no access to neither infrastructure nor information. In addition, the earthquake situation has led many to homelessness or has made their homes dangerous, and this is what we recognize as the intention of correcting this injustice that has arisen from the initial. More importantly, we want everyone to have a roof over their heads after the renovation, and I think that would have to be some kind of goal. We must and want to use the reconstruction to bring order and construction and urbanism, but not by paying those most vulnerable citizens for the mistakes of the political majority in the last 30 years, but by paying the state to pay for the recovery of this situation because it is the most responsible for the construction and urban chaos that we have today. This proposal will cover only houses or facilities built by 2011. and visible on orthophoto recordings, so that not some new objects will be legalized, but only homes of people who have not submitted a request for legalisation until now, and when we talk about these areas affected by the earthquake, it is most often because they simply couldn't afford it. If we do not extend the deadline for such people or if they are unable to submit a legalisation request, they will simply not be able to obtain a replacement house from the state. That's our club's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46548	The next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished representative of Domagoj Prica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46549	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The devastating earthquakes that hit Zagreb, Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County in March last year, followed by the end of December by Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovačka County, caused major damage and more than 70,000 buildings were reported to be injured. Unfortunately, the restoration hasn't begun yet. The group that is particularly affected are our citizens who have not submitted a request for legalisation of the property by 30 June 2018. And that's why they don't have the right to rebuild by the state. That is why the SDP Representatives' Club proposes the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings in order to allow the deadline for the application of legalisation until 30 June 2021. Since there are more than 70,000 damaged objects, it is logical to expect a large number of non-legislative ones. I would particularly like to note that the draft of this law with the Final Proposal for the Law was put into practice on January 20th of this year, however, it was only now, months later. Unfortunately, time is passing, citizens will need help, and this bill is under discussion only after three months. They shall have the right to assist in the reconstruction of those buildings which are legalised or subject to legalisation until 30 June 2018. Given the difficult financial conditions of our citizens affected by the earthquake, the intention of the SDP is to extend the period of application for legalisation to those who have lost their homes in the earthquake because this is a necessary prerequisite for these buildings to be renewed in the procedure prescribed by the Law on the restoration of earthquake-damaged buildings. The earthquake is a higher force, and in this case the state needs to be helped to restore what is also confirmed by the adoption of the Law on the restoration of earthquake - damaged buildings. The recovery after the earthquake will help the economic recovery and exit from the crisis in which Croatia is currently in place and the return to normal life in the earthquake affected areas. The SDP believes it is necessary to help our citizens who have had an unfortunate circumstance to live in a place where the earthquake has destroyed their homes. We should also point out once again that citizens are financially burdened, it is about families with children who are not able to start up on their own financially. In these situations, the strength of the state and the strength of solidarity must be demonstrated. It's our duty to help the citizens when it's the hardest, and that's right now. Unfortunately, part of the citizens in the earthquake affected areas due to their lack of guidance or financial opportunities did not apply for legalisation in time, the higher power destroyed their homes and we believe they need an exit. One of the moral and legal foundations for this is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says that Croatia is a social state. Let us meet the constitutional principle and be truly a social state, let us take care of our fellow citizens. The legal solution of the SDP club is the greatest security to help our citizens, other solutions are not serious because they do not guarantee that people will really be helped. Only law is a legal basis which can allow for the extension of legalisation deadlines as a prerequisite for the right to refurbish. If someone finds this to be a privileged position to put citizens to whom this law applies, he is wrong. It is about people who have run out of room for life, for them and for their families, if they get an extension of the legalisation deadline then they need to implement it, and the right to rebuild is related to the construction reconstruction, they will, like other citizens, have a large part of the damage that does not belong to the construction reconstruction themselves to finance. There's no way to say they're privileged. The social situation of people who have suffered from homes is bad, many still live in containers in suspense is when the recovery will begin. The economy is in crisis and the revenues of a large number of employees have fallen as costs rise, and damaged homes need to be restored in an earthquake or built completely new ones. That's impossible, which is why the state needs the help especially of this group of citizens. Let us support this bill and enable the restoration of houses and apartments to our fellow citizens whose earthquake has taken away the right to a home.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46550	The next debate is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46551	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. There is an urgent procedure for amending and supplementing the Law on Legalisation or on dealing with illegally built buildings where the SDP Representatives' Club tried to solve a problem which is and will show itself in the restoration of buildings that died in the earthquake that hit Zagreb 13 months ago. and late last year, the area of Banija/Banovina left a trail in the city of Zagreb. I will somehow try to reason and lead this debate in two directions. One direction is what the country really is, the role of the state when a situation like this occurs and such an elemental disaster as in the area of Bania and Banovina, where people really can't help themselves, that the state takes over its role and helps these people in the way it can, in the way it knows and is fast and efficient. 13 months. It's been since the earthquake in the city of Zagreb and how we do it, I don't think you should believe my words, believe your eyes. And what I purposely asked in the replica can indeed happen that the man was illegal, that he was left without a house, that he was in a container and as you well know, the government's decision was to define a bunch of things not in the Rehabilitation Act but to define in the programme of measures that one was taken at the end of the year, 10th, 11th month. The second is January 22nd, which was more complete and was complete after all that madness when no one knew how to apply anymore. But we can talk about it on some other topic, let's talk about legalization. Why the Law on Legalization? So Croatia has one date, one date is February 15th, '68, all that was done before is legal. No matter where it's made, no matter how it's done. The law on legalization has arisen, I will not enter into some political context, I never thought in my life that I would deal with it, but at one point we did not know how many illegal constructions we have because the characteristics of construction in Croatia do not distinguish you in one street that something is legal, other illegal or something more quality and the other is unquality. So what were the reasons for the illegal construction if you wanted to justify it? One was unsettled property-legal relations on parcels, the other was the economic effect where people didn't conclude that they had money to build a house, but they didn't have money to document, and the third reason was the slow issue of building permits, if you've been waiting for 2 years, in 2 years you build a house, move into the house and do it. We have today had the first point of the State of Space Report and through the State of Space Reports it has shown how many requirements have been resolved and it has proved that I am not looking for it here now, so it is very easy to find, which is that somewhere less than 700 000 housing buildings or auxiliary facilities are legalized. That means it was the word of so many lawless buildings. When we were doing this and we were doing the projection, then we were thinking that, say, about 100,000 buildings are illegal in Croatia, that these might be some kind of upgrades, upgrades and other situations, it turns out that's not the case. What happened? A recording of the Republic of Croatia took place on 21 June 2011 and is the basis for legalisation. Why did it go with a certain deadline? So that people can apply for legalization, realize that they have to legalize their properties, I remember those situations where my good colleague, my college friend, called me and I said you'd extend the legalization deadline. I say we won't. He says, "Shall I file for you?" I'm saying you have to decide whether you're gonna file for your clients' request or not, we're not gonna extend the deadline. And he tells me, but I hear you will. I say so, then believe more who told you that we would extend the deadline than I, who was a resolute minister at that time. You know what I'm thinking right now? If we have the 21st of June 2011 as a code date, that what's on the footage, and we all know that it wasn't all on June 21st, that there was something later, so you remember that people knew exactly when the plane was going when it was recording, so some of them who knew, owned land on some islands, so they made an emergency out of some house cardboard to see it because from the air, only someone else could see whether that house existed or not, but that's another story. I'm thinking about today next. That we need to amend the Law on Legalization and say that everything that was done before 21 June 2011, and it wasn't legalized in the meantime, can be legalized. At a time when someone would decide to run and settle their real estate and conclude that it was smarter for him or that tax policy was actually made, so that someone who had had the opportunity to apply twice had the opportunity to double the outcome of legalization solutions, he didn't want it for any reason. It would be a serious step, so we know it's June 21st regardless, but that June 21st, we have DOF, we have air footage, we can even see with special methods if there was a tree somewhere, so when someone proves I had a tree and that or that, and then we wouldn't even be discussing the bania or Banovina which is legal or not. It's a step the government needs to take. That's something to say, my people, the main thing is obviously legalized, if there were a little less than a million demands, then the main thing is legalized. There's something left that someone said and now I'm not going to. Or someone didn't know. I recently got a call from someone who inherited from his parents, and my mom died, and he inherited something, and he got a solution to the inheritance and everything else, and he wanted to do something with that property. You know what he had? He had a building permit. The building permit was for one project, these were designed differently. It was countless, not a small number of cases. You had a building permit for a house of 10x10 two metres from the border. They built a house 11x11 4 metres from the border. You know what you can do with it today? You can if you have a plan to go get a building permit and everything. If we really want to take care of space and if we really want to base the report we discussed on the first point to be fair to all of our citizens in this, I have to say if we're already talking about constitutionality, you have people who've been going through paperwork neatly, collecting for years, going for their construction license, and you have that category that made it simpler, faster, cheaper. 13 requests were for an assessment of the constitutionality of the law. A single request relating to the regulation setting out the compensation was partially respected. All these requests were from the Constitutional Court, they were not respected, so that's why it means constitutionally. That's the basic difference. So to make the state decide that this is the moment where the government and the state decide to set it up, it's okay. And it seems to me that this would be the only thing that would make sense, because if the main thing is legalized, then under the same conditions someone who has forgotten is in a situation of inability. There are many, so don't just look at ours, the main part of our spatial plans doesn't allow two residential buildings on the same plot. I haven't met one, I've met one spatial plan that has allowed it under certain conditions. And you now have on one plot one house, two brothers have split up, you have two houses and that is, they can't even get a license for it. So these are the only procedures that have to go through legalization, with what is being sought today if someone has not realised their request. Why are we making a mess? It seems to me that at this point it would be the only right solution and that would make the job easier for the ministry. Because this is how you will have trouble restoring the one I keep talking about. People will be left without a house, you will have nothing to renew, people will be in containers. The people who died in the earthquake aren't potatoes. They're not like that. We pulled them out of their house, put them in containers. In these containers they will be satisfied for six months because they are better off because they have no place to live. After six months these people will be sad, unhappy and dissatisfied. Don't let the reconstruction of Banovina's hair line end the way age dies, and youth has moved out or already moved out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46552	Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46553	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have long been involved in dealing with illegally built buildings and in my professional business when legalisation was possible and this general legalization for all buildings that were built until 15 February '68. through my work, I was aware of the problem and trauma of many Croatian families. And as Minister of 2011 we launched the legalisation process with the terrible resistance of activists associations in Croatia, and even certain experts from constitutional and legal builders, urbanists, spatial planners who opposed legalisation. Regardless of that, we, as the Government, went into the process, we made the law, and between the two readings of the law we then decided that all Croatian citizens would be in the same position as those whose are essentially illegal to record the whole of Croatia. And we actually recorded it on June 21st, 2011 and this orthophoto footage was made on the basis of this aero... the recording was the basis for the law in the second reading, which was adopted on 15 July the last day of the 2011 summer session of the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As counterpart Mrak-Taritash said, and that law and the subsequent law she later, or the government that came after that, had passed a number of constitutionalities tests, because some would say when you think about it, you would justifiably say why I, who invested big, big money in settling property and legal relations, walking out of the location, building permits, working project documentation and later using permission to thousands, thousands of kunas of large coins were one move of feathers, voting in the Assembly equal to someone who did nothing but through a solution on the state of play would be paved through Croatian legislation in a section relating to spatial planning and construction. But that's how it is. The arguments were stronger that the state too, because it allowed, allowed such a large number of illegal objects. When we defended the law then I was talking about 150,000 objects in Croatia, it later came under this law which later came that 903,000 laws were passed for illegal, for dealing with illegal buildings. There were balconies and loggia and buildings and upgrades and everything and everything, but still 903,000. Now after 10 years, or better said after 8 years because the deadline was until 30 June 2018 to say that someone had not been quite informed, so now let me make it a little bit deplaced but I allow that someone did not know even though it was the most interesting one who had an illegal facility and he must have heard it in 10 years, in 8 years to do so. The fact that he didn't have the money to report his illegal, illegal and object is also a little hollow because, in order to make a request, he didn't need any money at that time, but only the fact that you applied, so when you were called by an administrative department or an agency that ran legalisation, you could have done it slowly, solved it and solved the basic question. If a man has every year to register his car 2,000 kuna every year, then I guess there's also one time in life when the state already allows you to legalize spending a few thousand kunas that may be two or three annual vehicle registrations, but I can understand that too. There are, there are people maybe and certainly there are those who are in a difficult financial situation and that is a big problem and it solves it and submits it and meets all the conditions. But when you talk to us about cynicism, then I can answer you in the simplest way that you wanted to achieve what you're telling us you wanted to achieve, which is to help those people who couldn't make a request, then you should have made a different law change, a different amendment to the law. And you know what, in a way that all buildings are restored regardless of whether they're legal or illegal, and those that are illegal and for which there's no legal requirement to follow the status of those buildings that they're also not, for which there's also no application for legalisation and they're not damaged because by this law you're just going to extend those that are damaged, I'm going to say the same thing, and those that aren't damaged, and where a man can also be much, much poorer than the one whose house is damaged, there's no such privilege that you would give him with this law. So it would be my opinion where and how right it would be. When you call on social, social sensitivity, then you should have told them to renew everyone, and those who have not filed a request, and we have restored them to follow the status of the objects of those who have also failed to submit a request, so their house is not legalized and it is not damaged, so if you are going to destroy them, then you will also tear down those whom you would now have provided, so that's what you wanted. And the other thing is, which is even more unwarranted. So you know that we have 5.5 categories of objects in the Rehabilitation Act there are 5 categories of objects. It's being restored even the non-construction element is being restored, so someone can really do it if it wants to be.../incomprehensible/... say that someone who might have been a little cracked chimney goes into recovery, and because he's got a cracked chimney, you're going to rebuild it because he's going into reconstruction too, and someone whose chimney hasn't cracked, or maybe he didn't notice it, or maybe somewhere on one, there's a crack on a bulkhead wall, so he didn't report it to him, maybe he wouldn't do it. So, no, you don't have the right to give someone else social insensitivity, cynicism, or I don't know what it is, the culmination of insensitivity when this law isn't, it's not, it's not correct, it's the question of the constitutionality assessment is whether or not it's correct, but I would accept your decision if you'd said it. Let us change the Law on the restoration of earthquakes in 2021 regardless of the status of the house, regardless of the status of the facility. Regardless of the status of the facility was he illegal, he was legal. I don't even believe it, I don't even believe it's such a lot, I'm not convinced that a very large number of these objects that are damaged, and that for them the owner didn't, he didn't file for it. And I expect from the government, I'll tell you this, I expect the Government to in its programme of measures that will be changed and the thematic session that was promised to the Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning to make a solution. He says he'll do it. But this certainly isn't the way because it's causing a difference, it creates a difference between those whose house is almost intact, so it can be legalized by someone who may be badly damaged and not reported by it, and neither of them has acted under the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings. It's not that, it's not correct. I don't think that's correct, and that's not good. And the third thing, maybe even the most important thing. You know that the Rehabilitation Act implies both the second and the third real estate, although not in the 100% amount of construction, it means that someone has 3 objects and 4 which he has not reported legalized and which is a little damaged that we will also legalize, and someone who has only one one and is the same, is also weak, weak, but there was no case of a little cracked chimney for him if you're going to read it, we're not going to read the government's position to him, he's not going to be able to come under this law. We won't let him because he hasn't cracked the chimney a little bit more than we'd grade it for him, so we won't legalize him. So, it's not good because this is the kind of bill that would create further, further inequality, and from a fair point of view if you wanted some justice, and I think from the point of view of constitutionality that I don't know by myself I'm not a constitutional legal expert, I wouldn't, I wouldn't pass. I'm saying if you really wanted to do it there were different ways. And I expect Mrs. Secretary of State to really take on one of these, a problem like this that clearly exists is clearly through a programme of measures that we will probably or will change the law that we would answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46554	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46555	Thank you. In this case of renewal we generally had several dilemmas in the Parliament and these dilemmas that you fellow Bačić brought out are legitimate to present. For example, the public discussed it by those who secured buildings from earthquakes and those who did not secure buildings from earthquakes. So it turns out that those who paid for insurance paid for nothing because they were going to rebuild these other states. It was also one of the criteria. Then we have what you're about to mention, someone who's filed for legalisation and someone who hasn't filed for legalisation, someone who's filed for legalisation and has a damaged building and someone who, therefore, has a lot of combinations. We rated the following, the state at one point assessed this and you said and our government in one part continued to weigh the argument that regardless of what some might feel discriminated against to overcome the argument that the buildings are legalized under certain conditions. We don't touch these conditions in this law at all. We only touch one criterion, and it's time to apply. Why? Because it was not the same situation for persons on 30 June 2018 when he pointed out that deadline at the end of December 2020 when he had an earthquake on his back to say so. So, you're setting the criteria of the partners in the breach, so the two who illegally built this building, and the one whose building was damaged, they're leveled in criteria, and we're putting together troubles, because the trouble of people has forced the state to pass the Rehabilitation Act. It is now two months longer from now that those to whom the earthquake criterion would have been that he pressed them, they came into such a life situation to apply without touching the conditions whether the request would eventually be approved or not. So here we just estimate that the earthquake criterion is stronger than the date criteria that the state set in 2018 in a completely different situation for these people. So that's what we need to figure out. I can understand your dilemma but the dilemma and this one is nothing less illegal. So people got one trouble on their neck, which is that they got an earthquake and their building was torn down, and now we have to go as a state to re-penalize them because they didn't do anything until some date. Okay, their choice. They didn't do it until then, there was one situation. Now their second life situation is that. And then we can further discuss what's fairer. So these laws and the Law of Reconstruction had a dilemma where the Parliament had to decide something. And the Law on Legalization had a dilemma and all these dilemmas must end up being laid down by the legislator, and we have suggested that these be removed from the burden of trouble if they already have the burden to build wrong, because this burden is still higher. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46556	A few replicas. The first one is Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46557	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bauk, we are now discussing the subject of the Law on Legalization and the fact that... another legalisation deadline that is exclusively related to a certain part of the country. So it only applies to a particular section where disaster has been declared for individual objects. No matter what you suggested, the government wouldn't accept it. But what everyone here we know next, that's the problem and that's the problem there. Whether it's small, medium or large, or whether the government knows it or not, we don't know it right now. Assuming there's not much of it. It's enough to have five, enough to have ten and the government will have to come up with some solution. And instead of let's see, so maybe the solution is through this law or through something else government in the usual way that we suggest, that we suggest it's Thursday and that it's a nice time the government would say that there are no conditions for such a law to be passed. But let's think about it, that's the problem you need to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46558	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46559	Perhaps she would have responded that the proposal was casual because if we hadn't made it clear enough that yesterday was Wednesday and that tomorrow was Friday and that they would have prepared a complete solution. But, basically, the debate is about the problem, which is why they serve the bill's proposals, and that's why Parliament serves. So, this debate may also add to the government's representatives and representatives of the parliamentary majority to shed light on the problem, so when they face it, they will already have some insight. It's the same added value of opposition bill proposals, and another additional value that once the position changes that we can just get out of the drawer that we don't have to write from the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46560	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You weren't at a committee meeting yesterday. It was then that the minister announced that this problem was being considered whether it was a programme of measures or otherwise how it would react. But when you mention it as... and the associate in trouble, so you would help this one other, you would help him financially and legally with this law, and he wouldn't need it financially, so he's not going to be legally, because he's still going to be illegal for the rest of his life. I think you have to see about it, I don't know how to explain it more plasticly that it's not correct and that it would be correct for you to call each other as you have really helped him financially, economically, and to help him restore his house, and then in a legal sense be even with that same fellow of yours as you called him whose house is not damaged, but whose house remains unlegalized, and then let them be in the same relationship. Let us help him who is in trouble, but let us not make the other one completely unequal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46562	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46563	Yeah, but well, then it's a fundamental agreement that needs to be helped. It's already progress. So our law has already fulfilled half a step and now you take the second half of the steps to help the most justly possible. This can be achieved by proposing amendments to our bill or by writing another law supplementing another law. So, we want you and it's you now, I'm glad that you've managed to get to the same semantics, we want to help someone in trouble. We've proposed financial and legal, you think we should choose, if I get it right, or one or the other. Maybe a combination. Help him with his financial and legal half. I mean, anything's possible, but that's why the debate works. It seemed to me, however, a fairer proposal than some other combinations, percentages, financial and real.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46564	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46565	Dear colleague Bauk. What's the name of the law we're proposing? Law on dealing with illegally built buildings. So, we've already helped some of the citizens of this country, why? Because we figured it didn't make sense to tear down hundreds of thousands of objects. Is because the state couldn't do it, whether because the state didn't know it, now it's completely irrelevant. But already there were those whose facilities had been removed, and his neighbor, because the construction inspection was too slow, he preserved the facility and then legalized it, and now the facility has become legal. We had no doubts like this back then. I think my colleague Bacic was a minister when it was proposed, I think he was, don't you? Now we want to help those whose house has been destroyed, killed, damaged by an earthquake. Tell me, is that a more favourable position when half the house is missing? to allow you to restore it? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46566	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46567	Thank you, Mr. President. I take your question as rhetorical. I was taught in the party not to argue after the president. You're right about everything you said. The arguments you have presented are merely showing the dilemma that the legislator always has in such situations and he must at one point determine which argument is stronger, which argument is fairer, which argument contributes more to the development of the state and which argument there is a legitimate objective. In this case, the restriction on the application for renewal and the right to reconstruction is disproportionately a failure made by the citizen. Did I use a good lawyer? And that's why we want to reduce that disproportionately, here's another way to argue our demand further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46568	The distinguished representative Maria Jelkovac is the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46569	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague. I've been offered this whole debate, and I'm asking you, do you think we haven't had any legal solutions so far where that solution itself wasn't just solved that they weren't all covered? We had them. So my opinion is that when we talk about this first, we have to think about not putting our citizens in an unequal position. If we were to change the Law on Legalization in this way, we would put our citizens in an unequal position because we would go on hand, as far as the extended deadline is concerned only for those whose houses are damaged in an earthquake and I'm not saying that these people don't need to be helped, but not in this way. That's why there's another law, the Law of Reconstruction, and I think it's very important, even though you've avoided the answer to how many of those are illegal objects, which are damaged by an earthquake object, because then it can and possibly be solved through the Rehabilitation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46570	So, I'm going to repeat this first part of the sentence, and I'm glad we agree that they should be helped, and I believe that if the Croatian government does not accept our proposal, it will send a better proposal, and as far as this second question is concerned, it's a little bit like that, a dribble attempt because it's very simple. If there are few, then it's no problem to accept the law because it costs little. If there are many, then it is not a problem to accept the law because the problem is great, so it needs to be solved. So in this case, it is not a key question of how many there are but that the burden we have put on the back of certain people is too great and that it is disproportionate to their mistakes in the past, the consequences they bear. That's why he could be on constitutionality and this law or some other. Whatever.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46571	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46572	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. So we have two topics. One topic is legalization, the other topic is renewal. Do we want to rebuild the houses that died in an earthquake in Zagreb, Zagreb County, Krapina-Zagorska, Karlovačka and Sisak-Moslavina? Supposedly we do. We'll see what and how. Are we going to have a legal issue for those who didn't have legalized? We will. Will the government have to find a solution? He'll have to. The SDP club went with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Legalisation, in which neither the Government nor the Resolute Ministry, but neither the club knows whether we are talking about 10 buildings, 20, 200, 2000. That's what we'll find out over time. And if we're talking about one thing, it's really worth taking care of and doing something about it. So what do we have at this point? We have the Rehabilitation Act, we have a programme of measures that says we're only renewing what's legal, according to the special law, so on February 15th, that I'm not counting something, so we have that. We have the Law on Legalisation, which is more reference to the 2012 Act, which had the application until 30 June 2013 and until then about 800,000 applications were submitted. There, in 2016, in 2017, it was understood that a lot of things had not been applied for because they did not believe the state that it would be a deadline, so in 2017 we adopted an amendment to the law where we said there was a new deadline by 30 June 2018 related to the submission of applications. And here is now the 3rd amendment and the addition of the law where only for a certain type of building in certain locations would be worth a year to those, so now it's less to apply for legalization. I made my position clear in the debate on behalf of the club, if we have recorded Croatia at 21. In June 2011, if the main house still applied for legalisation, it seems to me that the time has come to amend the law and to say that everything that was recorded then is well known under which conditions can be legalised. And then we no longer have the inequality of these, those, such or such, and about whether someone was killed by a chimney or the whole house was killed. So, I'm speaking based on the experiences I have. To me, legalizing me was one serious problem to realize that the state was going into a legalisation project. There are a lot of people who have and said you're a state, and it's your fault, among other things, that I'm the lawless builder you didn't stop me in time. Those pictures of the crash when you move out of the family house with things where the house is finished and then you tear things down, are pictures that shouldn't be. Different countries have different models, and I'm only talking about Mediterranean countries. Italy took the army out and the army went out, they determined everything they didn't have and what they found, and that doesn't mean they all went down. Imagine a country that has passed the war, where in the war the victims of real estate that has gone through all that is, that the decision of any government and Mr. Bacic of the government where you were or the government that I've been in is now going to go out and we're going to crash. There's no government willing to make that decision. And the decision was let's try to legalize that, that we have the footage of the situation, that we have in the archives that we know what it is. We now have in the archives really to know what is legalized it you have better for a bunch of other houses where the documentation has disappeared either like this or like this, you have now and it has been seen today in the state of the space report, that when you enter the program.../incomprehensible/... so there legally and precisely you can come to a solution and see what is legalized. I'm sure we should do two things with this SDP proposal. One thing thinks well about changing the law in a way that we can say everything that was possible under these conditions can be legalized, so then you have for all the same, for all the citizens in the Republic of Croatia the same. And the other thing you won't be able to get into the renovation, you won't be able to solve it through the programme of measures because you're going to have to do something else and you're going to have to come up with an amendment to the law and admit that you have a problem and that you're going to have to change the Rehabilitation Act to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46573	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and colleagues and colleagues, colleague Mrak Taritash, that was when we wrote the law of great doubt. Whether or not, given that we have lived until nearly 53 years in conviction, I apologize for 43 years in my belief that general legalization is possible for all to be legalised in Croatia without the need to apply until any date but that everything can be legalised other than what can not be legalised by law, which are spaces because it cannot be legalised, but we gave up because it would then be a signal of a general devastation of space. But what I was going to say, so when we discuss a law like this that's prepared with a number of doubts, with a number of questionnaires, then a few questions can be asked. I am sure that in HDZ we have written such a law, we have proposed a law in which we do not know what it is, which is, how, to whom it is, how much is left, is a lot of dubiosis and questionnaires that you in the SDP claim that this law is written to please someone. In order to find out maybe some unfortunate person out there didn't report the house, and his little damaged house would have turned out to be us doing it to legalize such objects. I don't think it's up to me to tell you, but I think you're doing this in a good way so this problem can only solve you because it's the wrong way. And that path is guilty because it will create additional inequalities on the one hand, so it will create additional inequalities, and on the other hand it will not help, without saying that it will also ask an open question among all other Croatian citizens who have not submitted an application and are not in that space. So that's, I think it's very important that we look at it. And one more thing, you see, if we go to help people who aren't, they didn't report their building to legalize it, there are those who have reported it, and they won't be legalized because the basis of the law isn't all legalized, and there's one among those who didn't report it, and now they wouldn't be able to legalize it, and yet they can't be helped by the basis of this law because it comes out that only those like we wrote, only those who can legalize it, but we're leaving them a deadline to further, another additional deadline to report their facilities so they can be legalized, and then they're restored, and then they're restored. Therefore, I think it is possible with a proposal prepared by the Government to see first and foremost how many such cases can be helped in how these people can be helped, but not in a way that creates new inequalities and new injustices. And I think that, that's the position of us at the HDZ Representatives Club, and I think I share the view of all MPs that we should help everyone as much as possible, but in doing so clearly do not create new injustices, something that will raise new questions and which is not well designed. Therefore, for that reason. Not because we don't want to help, we can't accept it like this, but we expect the minister to announce it at a session of the Committee on Space Planning and Construction in no way know which time that it will be very soon, at least he said, to inform us how and how to deal with such cases so that we know what the fund of these buildings is, that we know how many such objects that require one change of laws or that measures come out of these people. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46575	Replications. Honorable representative of the Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46576	First of all, I feel for you. Defend indefensible. Secondly, if this is not a problem, why is the government already considering how to help? Third, you said you passed such a law to be said to please someone. Yes, the SDPs want to please the Croatian poor and help them rebuild their homes so that they and their families have a place to live. We want to please people who don't have a roof over their heads, people who don't have the means to build a new roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46577	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46578	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think we've explained in these few sentences how much this law would create new injustices, so we don't know where you get that conclusion at all. But here I asked you a question, and what about those who can't legalize houses or give him a deadline and extend the deadline and his house is torn down or damaged? And after this law of yours, the same question remains. Therefore, it is not here because of this social element, because if it were, then you would have entered the second amendment of the law, and I think that since that legal knowledge of the SDP has enough when you're already pulling me into language, you would have done something that you would know is indeed a wish for all these social cases not to say another word to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46579	The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46580	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bacic, you have well concluded that just to go into such a proposal, not all problems would be solved because all those who would be allowed because of the extension of the deadline to apply for legalisation is the question of whether this legalisation would be possible. So again, there would probably be one number left that could not be solved again on the basis of this change. So what we're saying is that we're going to ask that all of us get rid of the restoration of earthquake-damaged objects, but not in this way, but in a way that will be better for them and not lead to an unequal position based on illegal objects, all of our fellow citizens. 'Cause let's ask ourselves what happens if there's an earthquake after this deadline that we're going to extend, and in that time, not all of us are going to resume and apply for renewal. to legalize their facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46581	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46582	I thank my colleagues Jelkovac. Yes, here as much as I've tried, I've said this before, to bring this social nuance into this law he may not have thought about it in the SDP when it was proposed, but I said that a little while ago allows for legalization. If someone has a fourth object and has not reported it, then they will enter the system of reconstruction and will be it with 50% of the funds and then in that case it is not exactly about someone who is a social case if he has several properties, so now we allow him to do so in this way if he has forgotten or failed to apply in time, we would now allow him to do so and then also the state with a certain amount of participatory reconstruction. Therefore, the law is not imagined until the end, it is not imagined as surely and I think there was a better way and I expect that the Government in this regard not only on such examples, but also on other examples. And there are other examples of where to react and... to correct or correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46583	Time. The next individual debate is a distinguished representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46584	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. There's something else to start here. This law was passed in the first month. Today's the 4th month. The government has thought for a long time about what it will do, or how it will reject this proposal and then give one of its own. I realized that he is fully aware of what the Committee is about, that it is quite clear that this problem should be solved but that this problem must not be solved by giving credit to someone else and that is correct. We live in a parliamentary democracy where 51% of the votes are carried by 100% of the authorities and that's the case. And that's exactly what you're doing defending what your colleague said is indefensible. You are aware that this problem exists. You are aware that this problem needs to be solved because what we agreed on in this Croatian Assembly, which we all voted for, was the fact that we want to help people in the earthquake area affected areas where we will keep them alive. It was the key to this law or that of the Rehabilitation Act. I agree with that. We did it. What happened in this case is that we have a problem that one part of the people whether out of their ignorance or what I believe out of lack of property did not approach the legalisation process, had no money legalizing the object he lived in or who had upgraded until 2011 when it was recorded and fine. But today we have a problem in allowing this man to live in an area where he was suffering from an earthquake. And now is the way to accept this bill or are you saying that this proposal is not complete, and there is not a single legal solution that is complete and that will never be changed in the future, and you and I are also aware that something will always happen in society that will need to be fixed. So here I call on you to either accept this proposal or, as we have concluded on the Committee on Spatial Planning, that the Government is proposing knowing that this problem exists in a more quality way, that is, a solution that it considers fairer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46585	Here's a replica of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46586	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Brumnic, it would be better if you had been a little bit more grunting, you would have made a simpler law and you could have written a simple amendment with very little grunting if you wanted to achieve what you were saying. And I believe that you wanted to do it, but it was that you should have written a single amendment to the Rehabilitation Act that all objects would be restored independently of their status was he illegal, he was legal. That would be what you're trying to say, but you didn't write it. Obviously, you didn't gurgle enough as you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46587	Dear colleague Bacic, I'll agree with you. Here is just a question in which law you will put this provision or allow a man to legalize so that he can then approach a renewal or what you say in the Rehabilitation Act you will say that the one who is illegal will restore it to him. It's just a question of what a chicken is before we can talk, but here's a suggestion. I believe that we on this left will have no problem accepting it if it's the only problem, write an amendment and a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46588	Next individual debate, the distinguished representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46589	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. To narrow down to the simplest situation. We have Croatian families, these Croatian families to restore their home, so that they can live somewhere they have to get out of their pocket 100 thousand kuna. But they didn't win the lottery, they don't have several hundred thousand kunas. How are they gonna rebuild that? It won't work. If this bill makes it possible for people to legalize, to get the right to help, that's great, okay. Maybe not all of them. It would be best if everyone could do it and everyone would do it. But if at least a part of them do that and if at least a part of them gets their home restored that way, so it's definitely something special, certainly something that's positive. Let's start with the state. In all our discussions, we know how many states there are. High taxes are paid in Croatia, Croatian citizens pay high taxes. The state budget spends billions, tens of billions of kuna. If you help ten, fifty, hundred, five hundred families it's a big deal. For the state, that money is peanuts. For families to be helped, it means their whole life. I think they need help. As for the fact that they have not requested legalisation anymore, they are not only financially, not all people in Croatia have the same opportunities, that someone as an architect living in Zagreb may have more information. But we have to go from not all citizens really being referred equally well. And in the end, not all citizens are equal, they don't have the same knowledge, abilities. Unfortunately, let's not let that part of the citizens that started for some reason be in such a position that he didn't do it because he had some problem let's not leave him alone now that this higher power has happened, after he's lost his home, let's not leave him alone now. Now let's go out to meet and help, so let's legalize those who are later with God and more force, because of the earthquake, they've lost their roof over their heads. This bill adopted by the SDP is short, clear, two articles. But the consequences of this are far-reaching, the consequences of this are that some people, Croatian families, will be able to rebuild their place of life, and that is why I think this is a good bill of law. There's been a lot of talk today, arguments like this or something, but at the end of the day if this is adopted, if this goes through, people will really be able to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46590	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46591	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Basically things are very simple here, I don't see why we should complicate them when it comes to the earthquake and the Law on Reconstruction as much as it wasn't ideal and there have been a number of amendments on our part, and even from fellow Brumnic, as I recall, some have been rejected. Rarely accepted. I remember specifically from colleague Vesna Nadj we closed our noses and de facto to the vast majority, if not to the absolute majority, the Rehabilitation Act was passed. This is about two articles shown by a fellow Witness, which essentially change nothing except that they move certain deadlines and that's it. I don't see any problem with that. Here it wants to suggest the issue of inequality not in action, but the fact is that it exists in politics, and rightly something called positive discrimination, and here in a particular case it would be about that too. I don't mind the support of the law, even with the ruling majority, so when what's a standard mantra in rejecting our proposals says because we're going to make a complete solution with the government great, great. First, let's do this, vote this out, and then wait nicely for a complete solution, a classic mantra regardless of the law, which is so our provisions will be put off. The fact is, the Law on Legalization is a patching up of an illegal state. You generally have two types of administrative procedure in countries, but that depends on deadlines. You've got to say so one German where you have to, where a citizen has to prove everything to the state. But the moment the state receives all the papers from you, it's resolved within extremely short notice. You also have some south-west European systems in which de facto administrative procedures last from six months to three years. But the burden of proof is not on the citizen but on the state, and then if the state has any dilemma then we call on the citizens to hear something I don't understand. Well, you see, we're inconclusive in the administrative process of combining one and the other. Di is the problem that if we're already a digital state when we're talking about the law from legalization to renewal. I'm the one, and this is my OIB, and I'm asking that my house be restored. So let the state say whether it can be restored, whether it can be restored, whether it can not be restored. But what's the biggest paradox as a citizen living in a thorny area, that word has one problem. Non-issue or issue of building permits in an area which is thorny, which requires certain conditions of construction how the rule of law worked and where the building permits were issued, and we know it's the zone, the area where the earthquake is. The biggest absurd happened to me in the river. Built the Faculty of Civil Engineering, they flew steel panels from the façade, from the Faculty of Civil Engineering. There's a storm blowing 200 an hour. That's what every Riverain knows about blowing a storm 200 an hour, but he's got a building permit. So some things don't really work out in this neighborhood, either. So we know it's a rotting area, we know that building permits have to be stricter procedures, and the fact is that it's always a dilemma why people were building there at all, and they know that their house is going to crash in a three-way area if they don't build it in a certain way. Because what the fellow Proverbs said is unfortunately about poverty, poverty, and indifference. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46592	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46593	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me go back a few weeks. From the same place I was talking about another law, a law that we changed the Law on Local Elections. We at SDP's Club of Representatives have had a number of objections to this law, but at the beginning we said we consider that a solution is offered better than the present state. Then we pointed out that some things should be changed, we suggested to you the direction in which it should go, and in the second part we submitted a concrete amendment. Why am I saying that? Because that's what you do when you're constructive and you want to help solve the problem. Are we all aware that there is a problem here? We did. Do we all want to help people? I hope so. Let's go together. If this bill was as flawed as you say you could suggest how to fix it. You're not. You've only criticised what your legitimate right is, but from that criticism without offering a solution through an alternative to the citizens whose houses have been torn down, and they won't be able to participate in the restoration because of that famous FT1P, or you're missing one piece of paper from that criticism these citizens will have nothing. Let's do it again. In the earthquake, not only in Banja and Zagreb, he suffered a number of non-legislative objects. Yeah, those objects aren't legal. No need to run from it, someone didn't follow the law when they were building these objects. No, it's a fact. If he had respected the law, these objects would be legal and should not be legalized at all. But imagine the situation of a lady who suffered from the house, she was halved in half, literally halved in half. I had a chance to get inside and I didn't care when I walked into that house because I was afraid something might fall on my head or God forbid it would crash while we were there. That house has an illegally upgraded sanitary knot bathroom, and now it will be able to be restored without it. What do you need a bathroom-free house in 2021? And the lady in legalization went to the municipality twice, and what did they tell her? You don't need to spend money, who cares, and then she believes it. So do you know why? Because he's an ignorant party. What we recognize as a person in need of help by all who have studied administrative science and administrative law, the principle of assistance to an ignorant party states in the General Administrative Procedure Act. This is where the help was – come on, don't bother me, go home. Yes, the lady was wrong when she built that sanitary knot. She shouldn't have done it, but she did. And others in her neighborhood are being legalized. They were smarter, they were craftier, they were more persistent, they ran into someone who taught them right, and their house would be completely restored. No, it's not a guess when your house is torn down. I'm gonna ask all of us a question. If you mean the opposite of what I just said, is your house being torn down enough reason to help you, so that we might legally put you in a more favourable position than someone whose house isn't broken down? It's for me. At the end of the line for all of us was twice when we adopted the Law on Reconstruction after the Zagreb earthquake and when we adopted the Law on its amendments after the one in the area of Banija, Petrinja, Gline and so on. That's exactly what my colleague Bauk pointed out. We helped people. What about putting in a more favourable or unfavourable position for those who were paying for earthquake insurance? Then we said that the arguments that are in favor of helping everyone, however, are stronger than the arguments against, and I supported it then, and I would support it again today if you were suggesting such a thing because you were right. When you suggested it, you were just right. When something is right, regardless of which party suggests it, we need to get the strength and say it – yes, that's good, and that's why we're going to support it. All right, you don't have to accept this proposal, but give your people yours, give us a solution on how to help those whose houses are torn down. However, as should be in the final presentation, I will look back at certain remarks. No, we don't think all the objects that have been destroyed should be legalized. No, we have an article 6. Law on legalisation that speaks of objects that cannot be legalised as for example buildings that were built and called building areas in the park of nature or national park. Well, it's not my idea to propose the law of a building like that, and that's exactly why we didn't suggest it. Read the law, it is very clear under what conditions and which objects can be legalized. Well, just for those objects that can be legalized we're looking for something, extend the deadline. With legalization there is one serious problem, and the problem is that legalization by nature is a construct, a construct in which you help someone who has at least one moment broken the law more or less. By definition of things you put that person in a more favourable position than those who respected the law, than that Ante, unlike the one who waited in line for two, three years waiting for a location and construction, paid for the municipal contribution, then paid for the connections, then applied for the pay and the communal fee he put in a more unfavourable position because he would have said to us in Istria Stupido. He respected the law, and then we let his neighbor, who didn't respect the law, come into the same position. Why? As I told my colleague, Bauku, in the replica, because as a state, we were unable to carry out the order. So when we weren't able to carry out the order and we confessed and we helped these people, so what's to prevent us from helping those who, clearly I want to say, are houses torn down or damaged? If we helped before, let's help now because these people won't be able to restore it. I'll do it again. No, where objects can't be legalized, we're not looking for legalization. Well, we're not deluded. Just where they could have been legalized by now, just extend the deadline to the people. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this law is aimed exclusively at helping people. He doesn't cost the state anything. Legalisation is still ongoing and the Law on Reconstruction recognises the fact that legalisation is not complete and accepts that it can be requested... or help in the reconstruction of those facilities where legalisation is ongoing. Let's extend the deadline by 2, 3 months to those whose houses have been damaged and cannot be restored without such a law. Okay, you don't have to accept what the SDP has suggested, but then your obligation within a very short period of time is to suggest something else preferably better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46594	We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item of the agenda is: - Selection, appointment and resolution of the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a member and a member of the Working Party for the coordination of national activities within the Conference on the Future of Europe. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs, Nada Murganic, to explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46597	Thank you. Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. A proposal for a decision on the appointment of a member and a member of the Working Party for the coordination of national activities within the Conference on the Future of Europe was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Selection and Designation. The working group is appointed as a member of Gary Cappelli, and Domagoj Hajdukovic will also be published in the National Journal, and will take effect on the day of his adoption. This was voted today at the committee's electronic session. If there's any questions or anything, here, I'm at my disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46598	I thank the board president. I'm opening a debate. Arsen Bauk, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46599	Very briefly, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. President, the SDP Club will support this proposal as a result of an inter-party agreement to join the Committee in this working group the chair of the two committees and, in this context, the SDP Club has proposed a colleague of Domagoj Hajdukovic, together we have agreed on you minutes from the meeting of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46600	Thank you very much. Here, in this way, the session was in that direction and prepared and I think we all made a good decision together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-22-0.u46601	Okay. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We've exhausted the agenda for today's session. We will continue tomorrow morning by proposing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 167. Thank you and have a nice rest of the day. Session interrupted at 19.13 hours.
