ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71513	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. Before we move to the 1st point of today's schedule, the Committee on Legislative Law on the basis of Article. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the HS proposed the implementation of a joint discussion on points 2 to 9 of the agenda for today's debate. These are points concerning decisions on the participation of the Armed Forces in activities outside the Republic of Croatia, so there is a strong logic that these points are united. Does anyone object to such a proposal? No, then we'll have a united debate on points 2 to 9. And another information, given the large number of amendments, 475 amendments, we'll work both Monday and Tuesday, so Monday and Tuesday, so Monday and Tuesday, we'll have to discuss the amendments, if it's only 2 minutes after the amendment, 475 times 2 is 950, it's hours and hours. So 20 hours with free speech, and then Monday and Tuesday, we'll dedicate to the amendments and possibly Tuesday afternoon, if it goes quickly, then we'll discuss one more point, we'll discuss it through today and tomorrow. On Wednesday is the vote then on the Budget, Thursday will be an interesting debate, as well, the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, so plan for yourself. What? On Wednesday, we'll start voting at 10 in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71532	Finally, Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will be the position of the Centre and GLAS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71533	The chairman, fellow MPs and MPs and distinguished Croatian citizens. My question is, do we even have a state? Having a state means having independent institutions and state bodies capable of carrying out their tasks under the Constitution and the law. We don't have such institutions, and especially not our independent law enforcement bodies. This is witnessed daily by news published in the media and the harsh reality in which most Croatian citizens live. All those who don't have a HDZ party card. Among the news, she also said that the State's Attorney's Office has finally conducted its internal investigation into the way USKOK handled in the case of Gabriela Žalac and the affairs of Software. It's tragic that neither the BOOK nor the DORH see faults in their own work, their own actions. It is even more tragic that only a few minutes after the announcement of the DORH, Mr Malenica, the resolute minister of justice and administration, gave his testimony about the case. He said he agreed with the report. The contents of his testimony can be compared to that famous folk saying that everything an honest man is ashamed of criminal authority praises for himself. The report states that the decision to suspend the proceedings in the case of Zalac was made in February 2020 while the chief state attorney was Drazen Jelenic, now known as former Chief State Attorney, is a maston. The second report was repeated in July, when Hrvojo Šipek was already elected Attorney General and only after that was passed a law on the European Public Prosecutor, only in December of that year. On this basis, the DORH asked all its departments for information on how all cases are being handled, but with the indication that reports should be made, a report on those items that are in operation. Well, fortunately for HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic, this case was closed by then. Therefore, it has never been delivered to the European Public Prosecutor. Now that it is clear that our main law enforcement bodies have been buried, the commission remains as the last base, the last institution the HDZ government has failed to break until the end of a change in leadership that would be similar to them. So now they're trying to do it in a different way, by changing the law. Changes to the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest today were discussed before the National Council for the monitoring of the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, which was attended by State Secretary Josip Salapic in front of the Ministry of Justice and Administration. And despite the fact that the entire opposition public, the domestic expert public, including the international public and relevant international institutions such as GREK, were manifested and declared very unequivocally and unequivocally that this draft law on the prevention of conflicts of interest was a difficult step backwards in the anti-corruption system, Josip Salapic threatened and said in a somewhat threatening tone, with which of course no one was impressed, that as long as the HDZ majority in the Croatian Parliament decided on the law, this law would be voted on as it is now said in the draft. Therefore, I call on Croatian citizens, if they want to live in a state without crime and shame, to make good efforts to keep these remaining 3 years for the last 3 years in which HDZ has the opportunity to hold the lottery of corrupt authorities and their mandates both in the government and in the Croatian Parliament. And where we'll be like a state by then. In 2000, we became one of the GREK members. GRECO is the international institution of the Council of Europe, which numbers 50 Member States and GRECO deals specifically with the issues of justice and the fight against corruption. During the 5 evaluation cycles so far, GRECO made its recommendations so that Croatia could improve its judiciary and anti-corruption systems and in the first 4 cycles Croatia was in some way proud of this international institution because we adopted most of the recommendations without object. It seems to me that we have had about 90 and some percentage success of the measures implemented. Today, by the same international institution, we are trapped on a pillar of shame because, behold, GRECO says that we are not good at these changes to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71587	You, too. Mr Rade Simičević will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71588	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, here are the viewers and viewers. Covid the high priest doesn't care, and as in all the countries of the world and Croatian citizens are freaked out by Covid and God knows when and when he'll end it. The Croatian government is doing everything possible to get over the Covid crisis with as little effect as possible. A vaccine has been obtained and whoever wants it and whoever wants it can be vaccinated. What is not good right now in Croatian society is polarisation of those who have been vaccinated and those who do not want to be vaccinated. Vaccination is your choice and indeed no one puts pressure on anyone to vaccinate. Those who deny the pandemic after so many sick and dead shall continue to dwell in the wilderness with the power of their heart. The media space is so polluted by the misinformation of laymen and psychics and the waist is completely suppressed on the margins and can hardly place professional information. Again, the question is, who's the expert? Epidemiologists or social networks? On this occasion, I would like to thank all Croatian healthcare professionals who are in direct contact with those who have Covid and they need hospital treatment. It's scary to watch people die every day and they shouldn't. In addition to the older populations most affected by Covid, the student and student population. Growing up and educated under unmarked pandemics has become dramatic for both students and teachers. The pandemic is unfortunately suitable for disorders when it comes to the mental health of students one of the biggest problems we will encounter in post-Covid time. Students, especially their professors, I would like to thank you for the extraordinary pawning and responsible behavior of these strange times. Once again it has been shown that I can respond to any challenge and this is an opportunity to strengthen the position of breeders in the community through social reputation and material position. Plato said a long time ago “if we have a bad carpenter, then the Athenians will walk barefoot, but if we have a bad teacher then Athens will fail. ” The current situation in primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia is by the number of infected and those in isolation is the following: 3300 positive primary school students, 1490 in high school, a total of 4520 students. In isolation we have 4192 primary school students and 1403 high school students, total 5595. As for employees, 724 are positive and 85 are in isolation. Croatia is one of the few countries that has made a step towards other EU members, and has turned the problem into an opportunity. She equipped the school with teaching technology and was ready to perform quality on-line teaching. Face-to-face teaching has no alternative in psychological and sociological terms, and with a combination of classes in a smaller volume during the year, the post-covid time will be on the benefit of students to master the tools without which today's world is unimaginable and enter the world of digital nomads at a small door. Information literacy has grown significantly in the covidcrisis. It should also highlight the enthusiasm of educational workers and the willingness to enter the IT world of new technology. Carnet allows through its platforms to monitor teaching for sick students and sensitive students and students in islands and remote places. Here we took advantage of this opportunity to equip schools without any idea that this pandemic will actually occur, and in fact we were one of the most ready countries in the European Union when it comes to teaching and teaching. Finally, I would like to thank all the teachers, all the students, all the employees of the education and education system who are truly in one responsible and demanding way doing all the things they have set before them. I would also like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for investing all the energy and emotion in the unpredictable times of the Coronacrisis, no matter what others think of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71631	It is now up to Mr. Nino Rasdić who will speak or present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Mosto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71632	We often hear the last few days of our people being angry, frustrated, confused, executed. Well, we wouldn't be. Here is the news that the Croatian citizen has only been exposed to in the last 24 hours. Ursula von der Leyen announces a serious consideration of mandatory vaccination. We don't know if she'll do it before Christmas or after, or parallel, but we've seen some clues in that direction as well. At the same time, Albert Bouria, the head of Pfizer, after boasting that Pfizer generated $35 billion in this year, notes that for many more years, we will have to make out against the crown every year. The German Chancellor, however, starts discriminating and vaccinated, as he announces the reduction of Covid's certificate to only half a year inoculations, after which the vaccinated is treated as unvaccinated, and will have to be revaccinated. And we also find that Croatia has ordered 11 million doses of vaccine for the next two years. So that people may not be confused and bitter about all this, both vaccinated and unvaccinated. Instead of providing realistic information that the vaccine is obviously not as good as thought, but that it provides certain protection to the elderly and immunocompromised. In this situation of accumulated anger and frustration, the referendum for which we begin to collect signatures on Saturday is the last attempt to channel this dissatisfaction legally through institutions, through the change of the Constitution and the Law. Because if that doesn't work, it's just street and extremists, and that's something none of us want. At a time of growing social divisions with inconceivable consequences, we need to resert ourselves in this story, change the way we decide to survive the pandemic state as a society. So we call for unity and invite all those who are dissatisfied with the work of this compromised Staff to join us, to decide in future the key things in the pandemic. This is not an ideological referendum, this is neither left nor right, this is not only for unvaccinated or vaccinated, but for all those who want epidemiological decisions to be serious, justified, responsible and subject to scientific discussion. The headquarters is a parapolitical body from the very beginning. When the HDZ was to be voted on, Mr. Capak here abolishes the decision of the Belarusian epidemiologist, and here Mr. Hrebac raises his hand. Then how come people in the next year and a half more can trust such a Staff and from where they don't trust each other? We want to give the referendum a decisive blow to the headquarters, to the pandemic management model, which created a pair of bodies that were placed above the Parliament and the people, which made their own willful, absurd, discriminatory, not epidemiological in the ultimate adverse decision-making and measures, which culminated Covid with the certificates. The first issue of referendum decisions on human rights restrictions and freedoms will require a two-thirds majority in the Parliament. So ensure high social consent, a broad consensus for decision-making on human rights and freedoms. Well, that's what I've been listening to, say, from the SDP all the time, and things need to be sent back to the Parliament, which is the problem. With the second question, the Civil Protection Staff can no longer decide on the restriction of human rights and freedoms but exclusively the Parliament. The transitional provision abolishs Covid's confirmation, but we leave a reasonable period of one month for them to be abolished after the Law enters into force. Objection that the Parliament can't decide all the small things. And neither will the Parliament decide to deratiate or to extend to pay, but exclusively to decisions and measures restricting human rights and freedoms. Once the will of citizens is seen, the ruling will no longer dare to introduce any more radical measures without sufficient legitimacy and consensus. So our referendum issues contain what the entire opposition has warned, that we need a broader consensus when we make decisions concerning the restriction of citizens' rights. As far as Covid's confirmation is concerned, we see their introduction as illegal, because the government is now proposing amendments to the Law which would include Covid's certificates and the penalties provided for in them, without talking about all paradoxes and arbitration in Covid's certificates, and also in the fact that it is possible for the vaccinated to get infected into hospitals. Yeah, they carry it less, but they carry it, they shouldn't carry it at all. That's why we're in favor of testing right now in all sensitive institutions. So I'm going to repeat once again, we here don't want to create chaos and divisions but to overcome them and give one broad and firm legitimacy and legality, which is the Parliament and the two-thirds majority for all decisions that restrict human rights and freedoms. And I invite everyone to join us in that. [[I'm sorry, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71658	It is now up to Mr. Ante Prkacin, who will present the position of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I started last time, I continue, in Montenegro, a criminal case against the Serbian Orthodox Church began. And not only that, the crimes, the crimes of the Serbian Orthodox Church became of interest to the European Parliament, but on two occasions the United Nations, NATO Pact, State Department, etc. I, if you remember a little over a year ago, opened the issue of the Serbian Orthodox Church here, and 8 months ago, asked the prime minister about this: "Will he revise and then undo an extremely harmful economic damage and a legally worthless contract of the Croatian State and the Serbian Orthodox Church?" The president could not answer then. Within a month, however, I received a letter from the president of the parliament and a rush from the prime minister to answer my question. I thanked and went out for this pay phone and said, "If I had the right, I would have given the prime minister a month, two days to study the materials, and I would have done a few text cards in the meantime where I would have handled the first legal and then the historical aspect of the Serbian Orthodox Church's problem." I have dealt with legal and political because such legal mistakes can be done by someone who has political reasons. For this reason, counting on the lack of knowledge of facts by the Croatian state or on malice towards the Croatian national interest, and well-meaning that Serbian Orthodox Church, the contract signed as signed. So today, when the Serbian Orthodox Church becomes a subject of criminal treatment, it primarily does financial malfeasances. Second, to disobey the Constitution and the law of the states on whose territory it operates, and to disrespect its own Constitution, and also to falsely choose the patriarch, even for falsely choosing high officials. There are several more crimes, or as Serbs and Montenegrins say insubordinations that are not worthy here at the Croatian Parliament's pay phone are mentioned. So it is time for the Croatian government to react to the Serbian Orthodox Church. It's really the last minute, and I have to draw your attention to something else. Namely, several Croatian historians who otherwise poison the Croatian public scene, I mentioned them even though as humans and as scientists are not the same value. I mentioned Hrvoje Klasic last time. A crazy man talked out of some great Serbs. Nor do they know what they persuaded him to do, nor does he know what he was saying. I first thank my friend Nikola Celebic of Montenegro who sent me a video of a smart Montenegrin, one of their doctors of historical sciences, I think his last name is Papović, Papovic, Nikola thank you, but I read it before you did my job. Papoji is thus given to Hrvoje and similar Croatians, says Ivan Crnojevic founded a monastery in Cetinje in 1848. At a time when the Serbian state collapsed. At a time when there is no Pečka Patriarchy, and even states that the same Ivan Crnojevic named the first Patriarch Visarion. Here's what I'm going to tell my young counterpart from the Montenegrin Parliament. When he speaks of it, let him also mention the fact that in the Pek Patriarchy there is never a document that is exclusively the Serbian Orthodox Church. One single document on the Pek Party found, it's not just a pheromone but a readout, a readout of a legal act of much less force. He says it's that the Pečka Patriarchy is actually the Orthodox church of the Hungarian countries. And some Serbs warn that Montenegrin patriarchs, not patriarchs but episcopists, were carrying a sword and fighting for the freedom of the Montenegrin people, and Serbian bishops were tax collectors at the expense of the Turkish state. Here comes the time again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71706	And now for a moment we are interrupting the debate on this law and we are moving to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. In front of the SDP representative's club, Mrs. Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71707	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the number of newly infected by Covida-19 remains high from day to day. The health system is still extremely burdened. About 64% of the adult population has been vaccinated which is still too little to stop the pandemic and protect ourselves from severe clinical images and unnecessary deaths. We regret every deceased, and especially when it comes to citizens of younger and medium-life without comorbidities who did not want to be protected by vaccination. We also regret our elderly fellow citizens who should not have died because with their chronic diseases they could still live without Covida-19. So again, we ask all our fellow citizens to split, not force themselves, but appeal. It's sad when elderly patients hospitalized us because of a difficult clinical picture say they're sorry they weren't vaccinated and listened to their younger family members who wouldn't allow them to vaccinate against testing and epidemiological measures. Data from November 30, 2021 say 53.9% of the total population and 64.32% of the adult population were vaccinated. The largest range of 1 vaccines was reached in the City of Zagreb 62.8% of the total population, or 75% of the adult population, and the completed vaccination was also achieved in the City of Zagreb 55.8% of the total population and 67% of the adult population. The proportion of vaccines is increased from lower to higher age groups up to 70 to 74 years and is the highest proportion of vaccines of 90.48 for the first dose at that age. At age 65 and higher, 77.3% were vaccinated with one dose and 70.7 with two doses. And by the arrival of colder days, many older and percentages with two doses and a colder day, many older elderly patients complain that they find it difficult to come to vaccination checkpoints. Family doctors have been additionally burdened and engaged not only in the treatment of Covid and not the Covid patients, not only by testing, vaccination at vaccination points, but also by vaccination in their offices as long as they arrive, and now vaccination against influenza has started. The vaccines are also in the homes for older and powerless, and they also go on house visits, but they cannot include all older citizens especially who do not have a ride to or can't physically reach them. How to relieve colleagues in family medicine, allow our powerless and harder-to-move citizens to be vaccinated. Let's say for the larger engagement of local headquarters, a call for citizens to keep all administrative issues, information on the vaccine point, testing, covid of the certificates and similar turns to the Civil Protection Staff in order not to interfere with the work of health professionals, an example of the City of Orahovica. The third dose, which is the same as the first two doses, could also be administered during home visits with additional mobile teams that would include a nurse, technician, or patronage nurse with the presence of a younger doctor, and would be additionally paid. With local public health services, the minister should agree to strengthen vaccination periods per point. For example, in my County, every day at the Institute of Public Health in Čakovec from 9-13 hours, and then from 13 to 18 hours in the basement of the hospital, and family and hospital doctors are involved, and in the cities of Prelog and the Murski Centre, vaccine checkpoints are once a month, so it can be increased twice a month, so my colleagues from the primary recommended with the involvement of young doctors or retired doctors. At points outside the city, the problem is to provide emergency services that don't come out unless they're financially followed. There should also be additional resources, as according to family medicine doctors they do not arrive during vaccinations of hundreds of people at the checkpoint still chasing patients who usually cause fear of collapsing. For more difficult mobile patients, a transport of sanity could be hired, let's say a few patients from the same village and sent to vaccination checkpoints and, of course, pay additional money to the sanity. We saw Minister Beros inoculated on the bus a few months ago. As far as I know it was the engagement of an epidemiologist there, otherwise also the president of the Croatian Epidemiological Society, and such an example has not been brought to life throughout Croatia, so the minister should instruct the local self-government units to engage cities or county, include entrepreneurs with donations, etc. So the solution is more, the point is how many of these proposals will be accepted by the minister. Give not only as a suggestion but also a kind of commitment and organise a working meeting for both HZZO and Health Homes, the Emergency Medicine Office, the heads of the unit of local self-government to find opportunities. Just to speed up vaccination and assistance, I have handed several amendments to the budget for 2022, to overworked healthcare professionals personally and on behalf of the Club. I repeat that our healthcare professionals are overloaded, highly engaged because of the pandemic, give their spare time and give away numerous overtime hours. We medics are partners with our fellow citizens and patients, but the ministry should experience us in this way, respect and value our work, not just sending strict memos that we need to do this or that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71738	Thank you. The Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives' position will be held by Mrs Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71739	... So today two very important information has arrived that speaks about the seriousness of corruption in the Republic of Croatia and the urgency of action. [[You don't understand.]] First, information has just arrived that today's GRECO report on meeting the recommendations is a key issue. The negative opinion that the proposal for a new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has not respected the recommendation to strengthen the enforceability of the provisions on the violation of the principle of fair, credible and transparent behaviour of public duty i.e. to strengthen the power of the Commission to punish officials who violate those principles. In the debate on the new Bill proposal, we have made very clear the recommendations of GRECO, we have clearly called for this recommendation to be applied in this Bill proposal. The arguments made by Minister Malenica and HDZ that infringements of the principles would be linked to specific violations of certain laws and that all recommendations were incorporated in the Proposal for a new law were clearly not accepted by GRECO. Article 6 reminds us that in the conduct of public duty, it is necessary to act with honor, fair, conscientiously, responsibly and impartially, maintaining the credibility and dignity of the entrusted duty and the confidence of the citizens, that public duty must not be used for personal gain and that citizens have the right to be familiar with the behaviour of persons acting in public responsibilities. These are therefore principles which the legislator does not consider necessary to provide for the possibility of sanctioning in the event of infringements. We live in a country where the violations of these principles are daily, where these violations are considered almost normal practice, where we face a new affair of violation of these principles every week. Notorious case Zhalac is only the last in a long series of affairs headed by a ruling party who is legally convicted of corruption. In such a country, it is necessary to strengthen the principles set out in Article 6 in the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and to call on the Minister of Administration to withdraw the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest from the procedure and, as soon as possible, to complete it in accordance with the recommendations of GRECO and the basis of the debate conducted in the Croatian Parliament. The second news is the DORH's statement on the conduct of the control of USKOK's behaviour. It is clear from the statement that Zlata Hrvoje-Šipek was familiar with the case Žalac on 22 July 2020. Familiar and apparently consensual to remain inactive. It's the opposite of what she was saying on the now historic press when she claimed she wasn't familiar with the subject. That is why Zlata Hrvoj-Šipek can no longer act as chief state attorney and we invite her to step down before tomorrow's vote in the Croatian Parliament. The report also confirmed that on 24 January 2020, on the basis of an assessment of the state of the file, it made a decision on the completion of the work by assessing that there is no basis for further handling and continuing the reconnaissance. I'm talking about the Grief case, of course. Such a failure requires USKOK leader Vanja Marusic to step down. Corruption is impossible to process with such failures and we need new people at the head of both DORH and USKOK as well as empowerment of Article 6. The proposal for a new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which will allow the Committee to act according to this article by sanctioning all those who sin against these principles. Prime Minister Plenkovic says that HDZ and he personally have zero tolerance for corruption. So let's go from word to deed. It's a good opportunity now. We're waiting for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71756	Mr Zeljko Lenart will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u71757	I thank the esteemed Vice President, colleagues and Aglega. I would also like a little bit about this fascism in Croatia that is happening around us, but there are other topics that are important for the health of our citizens and for this mixed situation in the Republic of Croatia. About two months ago, I sent parliamentary questions to Minister Horvat and his Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and State Property, as well as to Tomislav Ćorić, Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, and this is about the phosphogipsis deposit created as a side product of the production of artificial fuels in Petrokemia. By privatising the dumps, the privatisation of Petrokemia privatised the phosphogypse dump. At this moment, the deposit of phosphogypse is dazzlingly delayed by saturating mud, and every day there are 50 trucks of saturition mud and waste water-readers from Croatian citizens, from Croatian cities. What I've been asking these two ministers who haven't been able to answer after two months, and I'm afraid this is another sting from the HDZ hive, I've asked them to give me information on the status of the phosphogypse dump. Who owns it? Who runs the phosphogypse dump? On what terms does he manage? Does this business subject have a license to deposit saturatory molds on a phosphogypse dump, which he was supposed to take over? I fear that these permits do not exist or are designed in any way to create, breed and justify what is done or buy the time to deposit as much of this mud as possible are simply speculation given that after 2 months a representative of the Croatian Parliament cannot get a real, relevant and authorized answer from the relevant ministries. Remember that when I asked about Ivo Žinić, about his apartment and his status for more than a year, I didn't respond. I'm not going to be in this assembly so they can get rid of me. However, they failed and time proved that I was right. I'm afraid I'm right now and that gentlemen who don't want to give the right answer obviously have fingers involved in this matter. This is where I used to play when I was a kid. This is a place that is 3 km from the center of the town of Kutina located in the park of nature Lonjsko polje in one of the largest fish nests in Europe in which the Nemomiles are deposited heavy metals and various toxins that will remain there forever and ever. I talked to the owner there. He says he's gonna cover it all up, put a solar power plant on it, so I asked him what's going to happen to what's going to come out of it. Well, they'll mow it if they need to plant paulonia. At the moment I said the paulonia would overshadow solar collectors, then he realized he couldn't have paulonia. So, the fact is that it is not defined that everything is done under the law and that it is done as I have also called it the ecocyt and genocide of the Croatian people. Sisak-Moslavina County has become the area as one of the poorest counties in which all the garbage is likely to be deposited. So far, two big burners are being planned. One of them in the box. It's planning to deposit on Trade Mountain nuclear waste. The question of how many more waste dumps will arise in that unfortunate county, and those who bless it simply keep silent, sinning about the law and do not want to answer to us advocates who have the right to these answers because we are here because the people have chosen us, and not like those who are appointed by someone else's will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79052	Here it is, that's it, now we're going to the first point: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure, second reading, P.Z. No. 177 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 5(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. And the debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would now ask that the motionary's representative give an additional explanation. With us is a respected Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Mile Horvat, here you are, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79053	I'd like to thank the president of HS, the honourable MPs, the honourable MPs. This is the second reading of the law on.../incomprehensible/..., Proposal for a Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure. I will go through the very essence of this Law and then in the second part I will talk about changes and suggestions between two readings. The Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure has therefore entered into force in 2013. Since the entry into force of the Law has been amended several times. The development of the entrepreneurship infrastructure system is a continuous process and an important topic for the economy because it is a function of a faster development of entrepreneurship, an increase in investment and employment, especially since small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are the most numerous users of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Entrepreneurial zones are infrastructureised areas in which entrepreneurs operate and jointly use available resources from the zone to rationalise the costs of their business. The activity of the individual zone for entrepreneurs is seen through the level of its infrastructure equipment, so energy, municipal, transport, communication infrastructures, etc., and traffic factors are also the connection of the zone with the main traffic routes within the Republic of Croatia, the availability of qualified and quality labour force, and the proximity of foreign markets is important for individual users of the zone. Zones have units of local and regional (regional) self-government, as founders and they independently contribute to the work of an entrepreneurial environment through the creation and attraction of potential investors in their areas. In the Single Register of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure in mid-October 2021 592 Entrepreneurship Zones, of which 290 were verified, means they have all the necessary documentation and 265 entrepreneurship support institutions from which 203 were verified. For the verification procedure itself, the founders shall provide the competent ministry with the prescribed documentation and shall enter in the Register the requested data resulting in the verification being based on the administrative treatment of the founders, so the proposal for decision-making of the establishment of.../incomprehensible/... is on the representative body of the unit of local self-government, then supplying a demonstration of the coverage of the zone and the establishment of the ownership structure based on land-based or cadastrian.../incomprehensible/... extracts. So verification, verification dynamics depend on the founders and the delivery of documentation that they have. This is very important to say. Data on entrepreneurship zones in the Republic of Croatia say we have them, as I said, 592 listed, of which 72 micro, 148 small, 37 medium, 23 are large, so over 100 hectares are covered. They were verified 290, of which 290, 91 is inactive, initial activation means that the name, that is active, activity, engagement in space over 33% includes, somewhere around 53, medium active are 76, and are fully active only 79%. The number of inactive entrepreneurs in these zones is 726, the number of active entrepreneurs 1,958, and the number of employees in active entrepreneurs according to our data says that 61 428 workers work in these areas. The main role of entrepreneurship support institutions which are part of the second part of this Act on which we have put emphasis is the operational provision of services to support entrepreneurs in all phases of business development, and these services usually include education, seminars, workshops, organization of going to fairs, conferences, etc. Some support institutions also provide accommodation services for entrepreneurs, so they give jobs, conference halls, offices, etc., which is particularly interesting for beginners. When considering the justification for the establishment and existence of entrepreneurship support institutions, it is necessary to start from the role of their founders in the largest number of units of local or regional or regional self-government that choose the category of support institution and design programmes to encourage the development of entrepreneurship. This proposal briefly changes the definition of entrepreneurship zones. Free zones are also defined as part of a system of entrepreneurship zones, the definition of entrepreneurship, support and institution by which institutions are directed towards operational support for entrepreneurs is changed, digital innovation centres are defined as new entrepreneurship support, a new entrepreneurship support institution, i.e. as a sub-category of entrepreneurship centres and as an entity supporting entrepreneurs in the digitalisation of business process. It is defined, defined and the elements of decisions on the establishment, i.e. founding acts for business infrastructure entities. The conditions to be met are defined in order for the donation of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of the establishment or operation of entrepreneurship support institutions to be considered justified, as well as the notion of taking up the purpose of donated real estate and regulating the status of the Single Register of Entrepreneurial Infrastructure as reference bases for entrepreneurship infrastructure entities in the Republic of Croatia. In relation to the second reading, the proposal for a law is compared to the second reading, we accepted nomotechnical remarks related to expression and certain articles, the proposal was adopted to resolve the words land plot to be replaced by the words of the cadastrian particle and because we considered this a more appropriate statement, the obligation to publish a decision on the establishment and from the founding act of business infrastructure entities in the official messenger and on the network pages of the unit of local self-government founders. A new text has been added. 8 according to which art. Paragraph 24 has been deleted and the numbering of items in this article has been subsequently changed. Article 1 is amended as well. 29 Laws in such a way as to supplement real estate models owned by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. We have two important remarks, so one, one proposal, was that when determining the eligibility of land donation owned by the Republic of Croatia each entrepreneurship zone is seen as a separate unit and that an option is considered that the fill-up process is greater than 50% only to a specific entrepreneurship zone for which donation is sought, and not to all entrepreneurship zones established in the local or regional self-government unit. So this proposal is quite interesting, but we could not accept it with a reason that the law stipulates that the donation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional self-government for entrepreneurial zones is justified only when the total intensity of the activation of all zones in the units of local self-government or regional self-government, which has applied for donation, is over 50% of the total available area of all entrepreneurial zones in the area of that unit. Regarding the above, the applicant notes that the available area of the zone is the area intended for entrepreneurs to carry out entrepreneurship activities and that when they express the intensity of the activation, they determine how active it is of that available area in a way that the entrepreneur has started or already carries out entrepreneurship activities. In the original text of the law even there is a formula for calculating the intensity of activation in a particular.../incomprehensible/... business zone. The applicant is of the view that the prescribed condition for proving the eligibility of the donation through the filling of over 50% of all entrepreneurship zones in the same JLS that requires donation is relevant and, as such, indicates the responsibility in the management of the premises and the ability and capacity of the unit of local or regional self-government to bring its already existing areas intended for entrepreneurial activities to the point of view. If the units of local self-government have not at least half-activated the existing entrepreneurship zone, the real need for additional space is questionable through the donation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the same purpose and the justification of such donation. The second proposal was very important, too, when considering. It has been indicated that data on the size of the entrepreneurship zone should also be taken into account in square meters, rather than the cadastral particle, since it is found on the ground that certain cadastral particles are located in the entrepreneurship zone and that part outside the scope of the zone is not the exact data for the entrepreneurship zone itself. That was the proposal. Of course, with due respect to the importance of this proposal, it could not be accepted because, in accordance with the law, a decision on the establishment, i.e. the founding act of an entrepreneurial zone as its basic document, it is necessary to contain the information on the basis of which the existing spatial plan is to be decided. The list of all cadastrian particles covered by the entrepreneurship zone is calculated by the number of surfaces of all cadastrian particles covered by the entrepreneurship zone. Where one or more cadastral particles are included only partially, the list of cadastrian particles shall only include the area for the part of the cadastral particle covered by the entrepreneurship zone. In the law on the part relating to the area of the entrepreneurial zone, we also distinguish the terms of the total and available and the terms of the active area of the entrepreneurial zone. As mentioned from the total area is come with the number of surfaces of all cadastrian particles covered by the entrepreneurship zone, the available area is otherwise intended for entrepreneurs to carry out entrepreneurship activities, and the active area is the area on which the entrepreneur started the entrepreneurship activity or is already active together with therefore has built construction, etc. I'll just say one last piece of information that might be interesting. Therefore, from 1 January 2010 until the entry into force of the 2013 law, a total of 47 requests for donation to the property of local self-government units for the construction of entrepreneurship zones were received. Since the entry into force of the law from 2013 to 2018, 61 real estate donation applications have been received. When the land donation criteria fell from 66% of the fill-up rate to 55% of the fill-up and a 20km radius was lifted, only 25 requirements were received as little as possible in absolute numbers. It is therefore apparent that the number of applications submitted has fallen somewhat, although two important criteria have been tempered in the meantime. It can be concluded from that that, during all previous years, the number of units of local self-government that have the capacity for donated land is exhausted in the business zone. Therefore, the aim of this law is to improve the legislative framework for entrepreneurship zones, entrepreneurship support institutions and the Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes to adopt this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79054	I thank the secretary of state, so now we'll start with the replicas, there are 12 in total, first in line, colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79055	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, in 2017, 433 entrepreneurship zones were entered in the unique register of entrepreneurship infrastructures, certified 176. Now they're listed 592, 290 verified, 91 inactive. So, in 2017, the ratio of these active entrepreneurship zones and zones recorded in the 27.7% register today is 33.8%. That's still a little bit. Do you expect now, after this law, a significant increase in this ratio over the next year and in terms of representation of nature, the production processing of the entrepreneurial zone is now 73%, a service mixed 26%, a logistics distribution less than 1%. So what is your kind of knowledge on the ground, and what will be the development of that ratio in the next period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79056	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79057	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So, our data is identical, what I said about the current situation relating to entrepreneurial zones is important to say that from 592, 290 verified it means that local self-government had the capacity, will, desire, intent, intention to seriously put into operation those spaces and then, by law, reported them, determined the coverage, located in spatial, spatial planning documentation and defined the particles, that's the 290. Almost half of them are doing nothing now. So, the other part by 592 is not even verified there's just some kind of decision in local self-government units on their councils that they're going to go into the business zone and they reported it. That's our picture today. What can we expect in the future? I said we're thinking about some sort of assessment, reports that the capacity of local self-government for some kind of expansion of this business activity has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79058	My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79059	Are operational programmes already established and do we have priorities for entrepreneurship for the current financial period?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79060	I thank you, Your Honor. So by 2013, the state financed the construction and equipment of business zones, until 2013. From EU funding, there was only one tender in 2017, since then we have not had an open call to finance construction from the EU funds. In the new OPPK we don't see this moment's space for, for funding, we don't see this moment, we're still going to see negotiations, but I can't seriously answer you whether I see a funding space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79061	Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79062	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to give you a few examples right from Slavonia, so I'm interested in your opinion of this one. So, I'm going to start with the community from which I come from, the former chief who received from the Government of the Republic of Croatia's gift contract land has already sold it the next day. He sold it to a private company, and no one's ever answered for it. The municipality has lost its business zone. It's not even today. We have an example of the town of Pleternica where our recent fellow parliamentary representative in the entrepreneurial zone has been planting red onions for many years. I will also set another example, which is relatively close to the city of Vinkovci in which about 6.6 million kuna was invested in about 20 hectares, and this area is given to the strongest company working in Slavonia and there it also deals with agriculture. So here's what you think of all of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79063	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79064	So, distinguished MPs, I won't think of anything I'll tell you how, how the law regulated it. Therefore, the Ministry of Property or former state property shall apply to them for the award of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. The initiative must therefore be taken over by the head of local self-government. We as the Ministry of Economy give an opinion on the justification of this donation in a way that we respect this basic criterion and say that the donation is justified if it is 50%, over 50% of the zone will be built or activated. After that, the Ministry of Property concluded, concluded a contract and defined relations in the contract. So if this area is used beyond the purposes defined by the contract, the contract is terminated And, of course, it's law-abiding. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79065	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79066	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, therefore one of the big topics that developed in the first round was whether the fill is greater than 50% refers to all areas located in the area of the local self-government unit that requires further added or compared to one zone. I think it's absolutely worth discussing and seeing what you do. Because you have a real situation and I always think you should look at those who are affirmative who want to do something, who wants to make further progress because if we look at those who are bad, who are backward, then they always drag us to the bottom. You said in this explanation that it was in the debate and you also said that it was not acceptable for you. Yeah, I kind of feel like there's enough arguments to think about. Now it's already, so we have a second reading. We can do it with an amendment, but until another amendment to the law, I'm curious about your position on it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79067	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79068	I thank the honourable MP, so in the amendments to this law, we raised that criterion to 50% then, before that, it was 60.6 percent, so we went with this one more loose, looser criterion, but we still think that, but we still think that the justification of the donation is a very important thing. So why would the state make its property available to the head of local self-government who can finally sell it unless he has proved that in the total space of his local self-government where he can have more business zones he has not built over 50% capacity. So what's the logic of being approved if the capacitation is in the initial phase, say, over, up to 30%, it doesn't make sense then. So let's put a little bit of that in some real, real relationship. Those who have serious business intentions, the state recognizes it, and then, justifiably grasp that country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79069	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79070	Good afternoon, we have warned several times about a series of irregularities in the contract process between the town of St. Sunday and the Roman car d.o.o., which on land owned by St. Sunday was founded right of construction in favour of the Roman car. The contract assigns Rimac to cars a building plot of nearly 200,000 m2 for the next 69 years for 19,934 kuna per year. It's multiple less than similar contracts. That's less than 1 lip so square per month. Why does the Ministry of Economy not regulate such a situation, why does the ministry not give an opinion on whether a contract for rent is justified and whether private interest can be the only criterion?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79071	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79072	I thank the honourable MPs, so I think that the criteria prescribed by law are very clear and therefore by contract between the Ministry of Property, property building is defined relations with, with the user of the property because it is not given at this time but only given the right to build on that property, so it is still the state owner of that land. Under what conditions can I now not say under what conditions the Roman company has assigned it and probably someone in that series of responsibilities has taken care of these relations. I wouldn't comment on this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79073	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79074	Dear Secretary of State, Croatia doesn't even have...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79075	Pavić, Pavić, colleagues Pavić, not colleagues Pavliček, first Pavić and then you, pardon me, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79076	Dear secretary, we heard from your statement that there was a lot of investment by the state in the entrepreneurial zone, there were investments from the operational programme's competitiveness and cohesion fund, the state was giving its land. I would ask you for information given that there are about 300 zones that are not yet active, how many of these zones are those in which the state invested its money or gave its land and what it means to do with it recently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79077	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79078	I thank the honourable representative, so as I said, the state has published calls for co-financing by 2013 for co-financing, so not for co-financing for co-financing of the construction and equipment of the zone. At that time, 47 requests were reported and real estate was donated on the basis of these calls. When it was EU funding in 2017, it was still 61 requests. Which is the structure of the state's participation in these 300 I can't say right now, but we can give you a written answer, I mean I don't read that data, but we can run an analysis for you, professional services will do it, so they'll deliver it to you. So let's see the structure of state-owned state-owned property if I get it right in these 300 inactive zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79079	Now it's time for my colleague Pavlichek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79080	Dear Secretary of State, Croatia doesn't even have a bad entrepreneurship infrastructure since it has 592 entrepreneurial zones, which means that almost most of the unit of the self-government locals has its own entrepreneurship zones, however, we have an extremely bad entrepreneurship climate. So is it possible, by some estimates, that our entrepreneurs at year-on-year set out more than 160 parafiscal duties? If you know the answer, if you don't, I'd like to ask you in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79081	Thank you, I think it was a question of yesterday for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79082	Now it's my fellow Boric's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79083	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, the Honorable President of HS. Here, we heard on your opening report, so we have almost more zones in the Republic of Croatia than local self-government, so some of them have more than one. We've heard the fullness, we've heard the activity, we've heard the number of employees who aren't small, certainly there's a potential for it to be much and much more, which depends in the first order, mostly on the activities of local self-government itself. But we certainly come across as the leaders of local self-government on a lot of issues. Here, I'm interested, when we talk about this filling and the 50% that the Law now provides, does this mean the fulfillment that we've come up with a construction act without a built-in object, so that space, the plateau is already booked and we know that something is going to happen on it, or does it really have to be a speech of an object with a useful permission to say that it's a finished story and that we can then look for further development of our own zone or this, in what way do we solve it? So is it just an act or does it have to be an object with a valid permission to say, here, that space is finished and reserved?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79084	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79085	I thank you, Your Honor. So art. 23 of the current Law which we have not touched in these amendments is a defined formula as the activation of the surface is calculated, so we have a total activated area, an entrepreneurial zone as an element of the active surface and a total available area and then it is placed in relationships and the percentage of activation is obtained. Thus, by interpreting this Law, the activation also considers the physical involvement of entrepreneurs in the construction of its facility on that part of the active surface it covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79086	Now it's my colleague Bacic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79087	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The unique register of entrepreneurship infrastructures defines data on entrepreneurship zones and then includes their surfaces. What remains doubtful, namely, the area of the entrepreneurial zone does not mean the total area of cadastrian particles entering that zone because certain particles cross the border of the zone. Therefore, it would be good, precisely because of the construction and status of the individual zone, that the total area of the entrepreneurship zone only enters that part of the edge of the cadastrian particles, which, according to the spatial plan, includes the coverage of the entrepreneurship zone, and not the part that can be forest land, some other, third purpose, enters the entrepreneurship zone and thus reduces the percentage of the construction of the entrepreneurship zone. In that sense, too, colleague Klaric is on behalf of the club It would be good to think about it. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]] Before we vote on the law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79088	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79089	I thank you, Your Honor. So on the, I think that on the committees of the parent committees there was this comment, it was very serious, but definitely by the terms of this Law that we did not touch, so the particles that are indicated to belong to that zone, and they are not within the scope of the zone, in that part they are not recorded on the surface of the zone, and that is what stands there. So part of the particle is the number and it is in the scope, and this other one is not, it is outside the scope of the zone, but when the spatial plan is defined where the business zone itself will be located, all particles must be identified, so that the cadastral particles must be identified in that spatial plan and then covered by specific limits, and thus also in the application decision, or registration applications are defined. So the particle that's out of range isn't in its full capacity defined in the Register. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79090	Thank you very much. My colleague Radolovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79091	Thank you. So, I have two questions, the first question is how do you think and when you think about solving the problem of the business zone at sea, namely, a lot of entrepreneurs doing business in business areas that are located in the so-called so-called area. The tourist coastal belts up to 3 km, and do not fall into tourist activity, pay very large contributions and this one, face difficulties. If they still don't fall directly under some industry, then I can't even get an incentive from that part. And the second question also concerns operational programs that you have not responded to by my colleague Hajdas Doncic. So, were they made? I think it's alarming that you said there's no room in the OPC for entrepreneurship infrastructure, I think it has to be corrected, that there must be places within the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion for Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, but note, I hope that as 2017, calls for entrepreneurs will not be evaluated and Rate by model the fastest finger. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79092	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79093	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. You have now given a series of questions, the fastest finger is not the subject of this law as the calls will be defined, and I cannot answer you now, nor do I intend to. So in, I said yes, I said that the last call from the EU funds, so for the EU funding was 2017, since it was no longer there. In the next PKK, of course they are, of course, defined. When it's official, the operational program is published, then we'll see if we can position something for these purposes as well. But I also said that statistics show that according to the number of applications, the capacity and interest of local self-government to set up business zones is exhausted because if they are 60% inactive, then what is the purpose of hiring certain funds to freeze certain funds for certain things that for which there is obviously no intention. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79094	Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79095	Honorable President, Your Honor. In JRPI in mid-October of '21. 592 entrepreneurship zones are registered. Infrastructure means municipal, transport, communication infrastructure. The quality of infrastructure is a fundamental interest for entrepreneurs, it is clear that, please, what is the percentage if you know entities in entrepreneurship areas dealing with production activities, creating new values, and what is the percentage of those dealing with commercial activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79096	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79097	Thank you. Your Honor. So right now I have information about the number of inactive entrepreneurs in this 592 zone, so 27% and 726 business entities are absolutely inactive. It's around 1958, so 73%, and I told you that somewhere around 61,400 employees are in these active ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79098	And we're going to the last line of our colleagues, Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79099	Dear Secretary of State. In your presentation, you pointed out the number of requests received for donation by units of local self-government, so you presented the fact that in the past period and reduced that number as far as you can conclude that most of it has been eliminated. I would say exactly the opposite, so with this restriction, first those 66% within 20km, and then these 50% of the total area of the unit of local self-government if there are more zones then the requirement became meaningless if it was not satisfied with that criterion. This was one of the main reasons why the request fell, not because there was no need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79100	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79101	So right now we're thinking that if we have this number of inactive zones and that within what's active we have inactive business entities again, and we've invested some money in building infrastructure, we think that the limit of 50% activation of the entire business zone is something, so if we go below that, then I think we're going to significantly lower the criteria for obtaining RH land to use. So nobody says that you can't set up a business zone on your own land, but you get from the Republic of Croatia to have a country at your disposal where at a certain point you can sell, and you haven't managed to activate 50% of the existing capacity zone, our position is that something you shouldn't go under, but I appreciate that there are different opinions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79102	Thank the Secretary of State, you can go back to the place we're done with the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we begin the debate, the first in line is the esteemed colleague Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79103	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Good morning, everyone. The founders of entrepreneurship zones in the Republic of Croatia are units in the largest part of the local area sometimes. regional self-government. However, which has been marking entrepreneurship in Croatia since the 1990s, as it actually marks the development of different entrepreneurship zones, so I like to mention it several times in fact that it is marked by one approach to the English version of copy-pass, so that those who have been following, and I have professionally followed it since the 1990s. So they only had in the sphere of entrepreneurship a lot of repeaters, so something was popular, for example. I don't know what china grower first, so novemies, so snail farming, so then buying ICB or GSB machines, so then you came to, say, invest in some apartments, and actually a large number of beginner entrepreneurs kept saying that and there were always some similar mistakes because one part of the big ones fell apart. So then there were still these... products from Italy, snails all over the place. And so you've been developing entrepreneurship infrastructures, and it's been developing so that at one point, they've all been sharing money for various entrepreneurship infrastructures, we're talking about entrepreneurship zones, we're talking business centres, business incubators, accelerators, so it's mostly part of what it was like to get this city or the municipalities, so we're going to get us. And now what you have today is what someone mentioned, I think someone mentioned even Mr. Klaric or you're not sure, that how many 585 entrepreneurial zones are actually in function, and you've invested money in other business zones as well. Now you have cases to say in some other business areas actually now you have them rented for what, solar power plants. So that's what happens on the ground, the money invested in the infrastructure, but without saying anything like that, so without someone to say without some national priorities, which, where and how we're going to develop. And we know well that we can't if certain areas due to local advantages are not close to the market, that you don't make sense to develop entrepreneurial zones or different supporting institutions there because they won't happen to you there on their own. Now there is, of course, that there has been no mistake all along in Croatia, so by joining Croatia in the EU, we all expected some wonders, and we can't get miracles because we don't have the same fiscal policy. So, what happens is what is a story, especially the Social Democratic bloc in the European Parliament, that you can find convergence very difficult if different countries are tax havens and if different countries have different stimuli or no stimuli for the development of entrepreneurship. Your capital will move to where it will be best, doesn't care about capital for the national community, doesn't care about capital for a region or for a city. So watch where you can quickly or better figure out certain factors of production i.e. Imputations and move on. But just without a high-quality tax policy, you can destimulate it or by some chance stimulate it. And as far as this law itself is concerned, it is good that the state is trying or trying to actually make and define a single register of entrepreneurship infrastructures, so as reference databases for all entrepreneurship infrastructure entities in the Republic of Croatia, means that there is some kind of national classification, but also that it defines the content and these guidance on a single register. And it's good, but I'm afraid again from one historical skeptic, so now we have how to do this... before you have these union trips you have a team building, so you've had before that entrepreneurship center, so now you're going to have entrepreneurship accelerators, so you're going to have business parks, so now you're going to have digital innovation centers so it's all similar, it's just a question of how that part is improving how society develops, all of that kind of variation, a similar denominator for it. And I say it's good that this law is because it's also a Digital Europe policy program to try to establish some sort of order in innovation centres. And to end because I think that more or less through replicas is becoming more or less questionable and questionable, so the SDP club will support the adoption of this law, but with one question, it would be good to do operational programs concerning entrepreneurship for the current financial period and actually set clear priorities to at least learn from our own mistakes that we have had in the last 20 years. So, I don't even attack any political option or abolize here, I'm just saying that was unfortunately such an environment, I guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79104	Now it is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected colleague of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79105	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I always approach any proposal to amend and supplement the law or the new law in that formal part and the essential part. In this formal part, and I think that when something good is done, it's good to commend. So, we get this bill that is formally set exactly right, so when the difference is made between the first and second readings then exactly what was accepted in the first reading and what was not accepted in the first reading and that's important, it's kind of a form that should be done because I have to say that we know from this same ministry when the difference between the first and second readings is one sentence. There is no difference, there is no difference or another sentence, all the comments that were in the debate are irrelevant, so we don't even explain them. Well, then it's good that you don't even have to agree at the level of the Bureau of Law just agree at the level of your ministry, so that we get even things from your ministry. That's what I needed to say because I have a need when it's good and commendable. So obviously it's done by different administrations or how it is then at college level let's agree that at least from your ministry we get the same thing. The second topic is content. When it comes to a law like this, I can never resist what they call sirens and always get into the shoes of executive authorities, and I always wonder how those who use this law should use it, and that's where you have the black white world again. You have that world of units of local self-government that don't do good, which as an esteemed colleague in the matter of the secretary of state said take advantage of something, use absolutely wrong, sell something they couldn't sell and have a unit of local self-government whose mayors, the mayors very carefully follow what happens for the simple reason they want to develop and they want to develop both their city and their municipality and there's an entrepreneur who wants to come and entrepreneurs both from the outside and from the inside and out looking at us and going where they're better, where they're faster, where they're more operational. And we always have those who line it up badly, who use the entrepreneur so the land they got for the entrepreneurial zone to activate the entrepreneurship for planting red onions like you said or worse sell as if it were his, now he's got something in his inheritance and sold as if it were his. And that's the black side and that black medal and what seems to me to be a place and there's a community association, there's an association of cities, I think that's where the mayors and mayors of each other should somehow fight each other because then these good ones who want to invest and want to make a stay in the shadow of these bad ones and in the problem of these bad ones. The problem we're talking about today is entrepreneurship zones, so that's the economy ministry's jurisdiction, but I think it's a basic problem in another ministry, which is the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and State Property Management. I was one of those rare ones that when in that former government meeting when it decided to build the State Property Ministry, she said that I was reading the country's desire to finally know what property it had, as a second, that it really took care of it and as a third to activate it. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, and I'm afraid it won't happen any further. When you look at the budget, then the NPO budget item, the ministry responsible for managing state property, is there to predict 5 million 812 thousand kuna for the NPO, and then the item is the management of state property. If the state could manage its state property to start having to know what it has, that's the first thing, it has to have a record it still doesn't have. Secondly, it has to have a catastrian and grant state, and as a third then it has to know what it wants, whether it wants to give it, whether it wants to give it to the right of construction, whether it wants to activate it, I'm afraid that none of these answers or these questions are answered. I very often like to make some remarks from history. So, we are in this area, that is, in 1893, I first met to mention at the time of the Austro-Hungarian need to build the Danube-Sava channel, and that is what we are talking about today. In 1897, Milan Leluci, who was headed by the Building Office, one of the largest urbanists and this green horseshoe we know today in the city of Zagreb, is called Leluci's horseshoe, exactly according to him, was a construction engineer and was a member of the Headship and wanted to offer his resignation in 1897 because he did not, it was not possible to agree whether the railway would go over the ground, underground, still the debate. What I'm afraid is that in a hundred years, but things are still changing, it's still going to be a debate whether the state knows how much it has, and this time I'm talking not about buildings, but about land. Does the state know how much land she has, whether she recorded it, whether she took out the cadastre and the garland and if she activated it? So I kind of hope that the tools are better and the tools are faster and that it'll all help together, but when you take care of the situation in the catastra and how much of the catastre is done, I figured it out two, three years ago it was 113 years ago that we needed it. So, I'm afraid that this issue of land, the problems of land recording really don't go that way because we have not once a case for the Ministry of Economy to do its job. It precisely defines the conditions, but without this other ministry there will be no movement and there will be no stepping out. In doing so, I can agree that there is really something that I call fashionism, which is that one year it's worn one year, the second year it's worn the third year, and then the third year it's worn third, and then all of a sudden everyone's dealing with one kind of activity and then the second time it's the third year it's going to be the third year, but I'm going again that part of my debate where I said, let's not look and if we're going to look at these bad things that lead us to the bottom, we're never going to take a step forward. Step into something different, let's look at those who are good and those who are really somehow counting, and because that progress is of course, thanks and glory goes to those who are at the head of the community or city, but what is made remains forever. No one's with them, I don't know, that someone took with them and the great treasures to the grave or took them somewhere else, so they won't do it this time either. What we see in 2013 are some shifts, but what we don't see as a basic shift is this property management problem, government land management, and these unfortunate property relations, just when you think you've solved something, then someone else comes to you. There's another difference that was between the first and the second reading, it's a new article. 8 where it is from the provision of Art. 24 deleted the 5th century which prescribed the possibility of exemption from the obligation to fill, but I received that answer on the board and then I had no need to repeat it now, and that was that for tonnes of special economic interest. To conclude, the establishment of entrepreneurship zones, the fill-up of these entrepreneurial zones, further development, depends on skill, on success, on how many individual units, i.e., to make it clear that the municipalities and the city see that this is the potential of their development. And then I think on the other side of the country, which is there, it shouldn't be a brake, but it should actually be someone who helps. These amendments and additions to the law, and I don't think there's that magic wand that's going to solve everything, and it's going to remain something that's going to cause the recommendations and cause the inability to implement, but this amendment and the addition of the law seems to me that it's still going in the right direction, and we're going to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79106	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Tomislav Klaric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79107	... I will talk a little bit about this Law in a different way for the reason that since the first mention of his name in 2013 I have warned that what he was containing at that time does not lead to anything, or it will block all cities and municipalities in the whole of the Republic of Croatia which, in the context of its entrepreneurial or economic zones, whatever they call them, have land that is state-owned. [[Specially enabled.]] Then, at the time of 2013, during Milanovic's government, we had an unnatural situation, a ministry that was supposed to be a cornerstone of development, an economy, it was divided into two economies, just for those reasons, we had a ministry of economy and then we had a ministry of entrepreneurship. Obviously, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship at that time would in some way justify its existence, move towards the creation of this Law and in the people there is that proverb, which is born with a hump, it is difficult to correct and all this time after it has been restored to the frameworks of the Ministry of Economy, which has formed a stable Croatian government and has started to think about the economy in a completely different way, we are making some adjustments about this Law. Why am I saying this? Then, at that time when this Law was passed, I actively participated in the debate, even my amendment was precisely in this direction which was later, in 2018, this Law was changed simply for a reason, because then, in 2013, an insurmountable criterion of land donation was set. So at the time they said, 66% fill in the business area, but imagine within 20 km. What isn't within 20 km in Croatia? How many municipalities and cities in a 20km radius have business areas? And what the secretary of state said correctly, some zones are filled, some are not, some are successful, some are not. We have a Bosiljevo knot along the Rijeka-Zagreb highway that started... the infrastructure was built completely empty. But we can't block the Polišnik because of that and that kind of zone, we can't block Kukuljanovo-Skriljevo zone in Bakr, St. Weeks or somewhere where we're successful. This criterion has been changed and thanks to the secretary of state and the ministry has respected that requirement, however, in a way that this criterion has been reduced by 50% in the area of the local self-government unit, we have thrown out those 20 km and reduced those 66%, and then it has become justified that units of local self-government give requests for state land so that they can continue to develop further because anyone who is unaware of what is happening on the ground with a disaster, unsettled land and grant books, owners who are in Argentina, America, I don't know where around the world and the problems in which units of local self-government are carried to put this land within urban plans into some function. This law has become something with these amendments that allows local self-government units to continue preparing the infrastructure and what is good in this law is exactly that register. We must certainly commend that, certainly, because we finally have in one place a pool of data in the Ministry of Economy by cities and municipalities, by number of entrepreneurs, about the square of land they own and everything else they have. But whoever didn't deal with it here is well stated and there are certain rules as to how the establishment of entrepreneurship zones is going and what units of local self-government must do. It's the first step and he goes into the register, he as an act in establishing an entrepreneurial zone is prescribed by this law. Operationally, what does that mean on the ground? Preparations from the adoption of the urban plan itself that requires a certain time, after which project solutions, idea projects, location permits, building permits, and then the resolution of property legal relations. What is good also in this law which accepted the argument that roads are within the scope of the urban plan, that is the secretary of state missed the word, and the green belt and all that concerns some kind of infrastructure was removed out of that 50% charge criterion. So this is where another possibility was created on the board when we discussed this problem, and I thank you for accepting this provision to talk about squares or particles that are located in that area, but you have situations where the launch of activities in any entrepreneurship zone is something that is a dynamic course, so something that is practically where the zones are activated, where the intense building and expanding one situation is happening throughout the course of all procedures changes the situation on the ground. So, you, in order to get a working salary on which the investor will build his product or whatever drive you need all these little particles within the scope of urban plans to unite into some kind of large particle and be one through one unit of local self-government, then prescribe all those procedures and competitions to even come to it, build on that space a complete infrastructure and throughout that time these particles change their numbers, change their owners and some activity takes place. So, this law in this form with these new moments relating to land donations, which refer to the real estate register, is acceptable and in any case something that is commendable. However, that this law will require further corrections in the coming years, it is practically certain. Why am I saying that? Simply for reasons, because the Government of the Republic of Croatia and now from the eu funds with this new programme have been able to provide more generous funds for the construction of the catastrophe. So it's a huge job that's in front of all the cities, municipalities, units they're going to refer to both the premises of entrepreneurial and economic zones, so all this data is going to change in the process. The part that we also warned about is when calculating these areas is what is within the scope of the urban plan and that part of the particles that are located outside that plan until the plot is carried out. The plot has to be done on the basis of something or you have to have a location permit or all the necessary elements to make it at all, so it still requires some time. What is my personal opinion, and I will say more about this in an individual debate that more needs to be adapted to the ground, these laws should regulate this difference between those who are active and those who are less active or make some different criteria for those who are intensively filling their industrial zones, who are intensively developing the economy, who are intensively building infrastructure and attracting investors to realise these projects because we must in no way leave the possibility that this speed of project realization in this area will block in any way. In this part of the request for state property and the resolution of all these procedures, I can from the experience I have, and I have a few years, commend the Ministry of Economy at the speed of realising their granting consent. He is, and we are all aware that the past 15, 16 years since the Central State Office for State Property Management of Central State Property Management, was founded AUDI, after AUDI, DUDI, after DUDI, a special ministry and now within the Ministry of Construction, that part of the availability of state property, and that is something that we will have to take special care of. I believe that the Ministry of Economy in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Construction are already seriously considering this. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79108	Now we'll listen on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, dear colleague Ruzica Vukovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79109	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and fellow representatives of the so-called entrepreneurship zone as well as the entrepreneurial support institutions represent the system of entrepreneurship infrastructure and are defined as such by the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurial Infrastructure. The first step in establishing a business zone is to create a study that provides an overview of the economic situation and interests of the entrepreneurs themselves, processes space on the location of economic operators and collects information about so far-arranged economic areas in the environment. This determines whether the area is needed in this area and whether there is an entrepreneurial interest in the area itself. The establishment and construction of entrepreneurship zones achieves multiple objectives for the development of local regions and communities. Therefore, the creation of new jobs, the promotion of economic development in a particular area, and the promotion of entrepreneurship and investment. At the level of economic operators, the advantages of entrepreneurship zones are seen to address the problem of space and infrastructure, enable the joint use of infrastructure and the integration of entrepreneurs located in the same space, including the quality of the transport link between these areas with the main traffic routes and the system of incentive measures and operating privileges in those areas. All of the above will ultimately result in a rationalisation of the business of entrepreneurs. The provisions of the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure have regulated the questions of determining the entrepreneurial infrastructure of the type and categorisation of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions, the establishment of a single register of entrepreneurship infrastructures and support systems for the improvement of business activities of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions. Entrepreneurial zones as part of the total entrepreneurship infrastructure are defined as infrastructure-based areas set out in spatial plans intended to carry out certain types of entrepreneurship or economic activities. The basic characteristic of entrepreneurship zones is to enable entrepreneurs to use infrastructure-based and organised space jointly and to be able to rationalise business and use available resources of the entrepreneurship zone along with other users from the entrepreneurship zone. The zone as part of the entrepreneurship infrastructure should be equipped with energy infrastructure, so by electricity, public lighting, gas substation, public network connections, built trafostation and other energy connections, and then by communal infrastructure, I mean water supply, water supply and coastal installations, sewerage, disposal, so I think of both the fecal and the coastal, technological as well as all other connections to the public network and transport infrastructure, and here we mean access roads, roads within the entrepreneurship support institutions, so parking stations, loading stations and other and communication infrastructures, so I mean telephone, internet connection, radio connection, television network and so on. In Croatia, however, we also have a number of examples where entrepreneurial zones are being abused and I consider it extremely important and I will therefore explain in more detail some of the examples that I have highlighted in my replica to the Secretary of State. So, an example of an entrepreneurial zone in the municipality near Vinkovac, in which more than 6.6 million kuna was invested on 20 hectares, on which it was spread for years, stared blank. According to the State Audit report, the cost of building one hectare of the business zone was 317.251 kuna, so this amount of money was actually thrown into the wind for years. According to the October 2014 State Audit report, only in Vukovar-Srijem County were 4 more zones in which a bunch of state money was spent, which did not serve the purpose for which it was built. In the era of real monsters building entrepreneurship zones, and before that it was not known whether possible investors had invested huge money, in many cases completely in vain. That's how the State Audit papers in the corporate zone in the city of Ilock invested 2.9 million kuna. The municipalities of Germans are 2.2 million kunas, and in Lovas incredible 12.2 million kunas or even 1.3 million per hectare. So, in only 4 zones of one of the 20 Croatian counties, 24 million kunas were invested, and there have been large stories of the development of entrepreneurship and employment of locals for years nothing has happened. Today in Slavonia, along with the unprocessed Slavonian fields of which Kozarac wrote about 130 years of staring at empty or semi-empty entrepreneurial zones that were transformed from then-working functional agricultural land into building land. In the meantime, the largest part of the mentioned business zone in the small Slavonian municipality instead of serving for the development of the economy, which is why it was built and in what I said was invested 6.6 million kuna, the former chief gave the largest company operating in the area of Slavonia, which has been using this land since 2008, so before the construction of the business zone itself, and then, according to documents, visible in the State Audit for the 20 hectares of the first-class country paid an annual rent of only 14.800 kuna. The public is a known case from the town of Pleternica, we heard about everything not long ago in the media and there the entrepreneurial zone until recently stared blank. We have read about how a part of it is used by the family of our former colleague, therefore, by a parliamentary representative who, then, in a fully arranged zone, intended for the development of the economy, has been planting vegetables for years. Is this the purpose and purpose of the investment that ultimately, all of our country's citizens as taxpayers of this rather expensive state, I hope that it is not and I believe that the relevant and these facts are nevertheless taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79110	The 5th debate will be the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front and respected colleague Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79111	Good afternoon. The issues that want to be addressed by this amendment to the Law relate to defining the concept of expanding existing entrepreneurship zones, defining the case of land ownership in the Republic of Croatia, setting out the preconditions of the criteria that local units, which units of local and regional (regional) self-government should meet for the purpose of making land owned by the Republic of Croatia, for the construction and expansion of the entrepreneurship zone. Also, conditions for land donations owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction, i.e. the expansion of the existing business zone, have been defined, but the question of land rental malversions that can be so low that it is actually a land donation, but then does not fall under the criteria of donation. I'll give you the example I mentioned in my replica that illustrates it. So everyone knows from the media that there have been a number of irregularities in the process of making a contract between St. Sunday and Rimac car d.o.o., which on the land owned by St. Sunday was founded right of construction in favour of the Roman car d.o.o. The Rimac Contract team is a construction plot of nearly 200 thousand square meters for the next 69 years for 19 934 kuna per year, i.e. for less than a lip per square month. Taking into account expected inflation in the future, this already small amount will become completely meaningless during the duration of the contract. In addition, the Holy Sunday provided for the Treaty that, with its permission, the Roman right to build was burdened with publishing law for the purpose of building campuses, from the documents of the city of St. Sunday and the Ministry of Construction, Spatial Planning and State Property, we have come to new knowledge that only confirms our earlier allegations. The Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, led by Dark Horvat, was obvious that Rome must be allowed to build campuses because of the general climate, in the media, but also did not want to bear the responsibility of giving property value of 82 million kuna in invaluable and that is what we believe this Law should be regulated. I'll explain why. So, the Ministry simply got rid of, to put it that way, the problems, but if there were doubts, there are a series of documents that confirm it. It means such a ridiculous amount that at the 39th regular session of the city council, he had to be criticised even by HDZ Councilman Haluzan, who is on the direct line towards Ivan Romec. So from the minutes of the city council sessions, it becomes evident that there was an intention of guessing Romanac with cars d.o.o., both by the city itself and the mayor of Zurovec, so by the state that transferred the land to the property of the town of St. Sunday. Thus, in the minutes of the 19th session of the 2018 City Council, HDZ Councilman Damir Haluzan declares that he was personally called Ivan Rimac to speed up and resolve the land allocation process. Ivan Rimac then was over... Haluzana gave the city until 31.12.2018 to solve the problem, otherwise, Rome's investment leaves the Council on Sunday. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Halužan then detailed the relationship between the city and the Ministry of State Property in the process of resolving legal issues. From his words and in the record of that session, it was never a question of whether the land would be given to the Roman, but only what is the legal way to implement it. It is interesting to see the role in the whole process played by Ivan Rimac, who is often stressed that it has nothing to do with what Mate Rimac is doing. In addition to uraging through the councilman Halužan, Ivan Rimac worked intensively with Mayor Zurovec in preparation for the assignment of land. In response to Councilman Haluzan Zurovec, he stated that he had been in contact with Ivan Rimec again and that he was even in the county with him and his designers, and I quote everything. So after that Zurovec himself imputs the setting of the contest, after being reminded by Haluzan of the invitation of Ivan Rimec, Zurovec therefore asks for it and it is clearly seen from that record, the erasure of the sentence in which the Roman name is mentioned because of the negative context, because then it can be imputed that the contest is set. So Mayor Zurovec at the 37th session confirms that what he and Halužan were talking about at the 19th session was the setting up of the competition. Literally, Halužan then asked in which way we would forward it to the Roman, to what Biserka Delach replied in one of the legally prescribed ways. Such complete commitment can mean that giving the land can be illustrated by the fact that only the lawyer has been paid $150,000 to create a contract for the establishment of the right of construction, which means that it will be 6 years before the annual fee from the contract will be reimbursed only by the legal costs of its construction. So, colleagues and colleagues, we need to be very careful about these laws, so contracts can be concluded to act legally correct, but by law here we need to determine that these things don't happen. The Mayor Zurovec, in his letter, replied that the fee was determined according to the amount of investment determined by the fee, not according to the value of the land, which is an extremely problematic interpretation, since in the order that was delivered, it states that it was a legal service to create a contract for the establishment of a property right, rather than a tendering service, meaning, on our request, it was also about carrying out an assessment of the value of the property before the tendering, Mayor Zurovec informed us that he did not own this information and in part, in this part, our request for access to information forwarded to the Ministry of Construction, Spatial Planning and State Property, which is a scandal in itself. So it's inconceivable that the city doesn't have information about the value of the property it has in any case, especially in a project that the city attributes so much importance to itself. In the event that the city does not really have such information, that is, that it has signed a contract establishing the right of citizens for 69 years on such a low amount, it is a grave negligence for which there is no justification. So we're fortunate to have discovered some information on the sides of the ministry and the city itself, meaning the properties on which the Roman campus is built in St. On 23 January 2019, the Ministry of State Property donated a donation to the Ministry of State Assets. By its initial decision, the ministry estimated the value of the donated land to HRK 6.5 million, which was based on the fact that the donated land was then located within the building area of the intended area in the area of sport and recreation. After the land was assigned to St. For weeks, the city has embarked on changes to the spatial plan which have changed land for spatial purposes and are now located in the area of production and development for research campus C. It is estimated that only this act of real estate has actually raised the very price of this land to 82 million kuna. What was problematic at the time was that they themselves wondered if it was a favor, so the ministry found an ingenious solution and instead of giving consent to St. Weeks for establishing the right to build in favour of the Romans those with St. On Sundays, they make an annex to a donation contract that the ministry no longer has to give consent to St. Weeks for alienating and burdening real estate. Zurovec accepts such a low-start annex ready for any possible service to private investment and capital. So finally after years of wandering everything was ready to open a tender that the Roman would get land and realize his dreams, without any explanation, assessment or analysis, it was clear that this was a very small price that did not justify that public investment. What should be said in this case is that it is not a problem for privates of course to be given land and it is being driven that local communities profit by opening up businesses in their area that local authorities can deploy land, but it should weigh between different interests in this case it did not happen, this is what we can say standard means another case of justification for giving land to privates. That's why we're going to have one annex and that's probably on Art. 9. which we will try to regulate by this law because we believe that this case is truly paradigmal and that it will be shown after two, three years of this truly obsessive follow-up of Mate Romec's postcard color and the great success of this entire project is actually shown to be one other characteristic of another person's case called the Roman, and that in all these cases, it is a matter of convenience which is legally possible and that we cannot solve these situations unless the laws are written in a way that really puts the interest of the local community, the inhabitants of that place, and not of private interest which is not necessarily in line with the public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79112	Thank you. It is now up to the Social Democrats' Club and Ms. Marina Opačak Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79113	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear State Secretarys, Associates, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. This is when we discuss entrepreneurship infrastructure, or the promotion of the same infrastructure, we would like to discuss it. separate the topic into several segments of the implementation of the performance of the zones themselves. So we would point that out through some four items, through some four additional questions that we feel should also be discussed and considered. The first is that, in particular, the development of infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones does not directly affect the activity of the economy and the very business climate. The second issue is the filling of entrepreneurship zones, the third issue is labour force in terms of the ratio of strategic approach to activities and the adjustment of the conditions of the offered labour force in a given region and the fourth would be the relation of the Republic of Croatia to real estate after the donation and supervision of possible abuses and malfeasances with donated land. As regards the first paragraph, the law aims to create favourable conditions for the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure, but what is above that, above that infrastructure, is actually a contribution to the creation of an entrepreneurial climate, thus encouraging investment and supporting those who want to decide on a business venture. And here we believe that it is necessary, to a greater extent by the state, to implement measures of relief and incentives just to strengthen entrepreneurs and their competitiveness, to strengthen their will for economic activities and the same will to stay, and if you want to survive on the market. We know that bureaucracy and administration have been something most entrepreneurs have been complaining about for years and it has just discouraged many beginners, and it has turned down a lot of foreign investors and we believe that there is much more that can be done here. So there is a need to create better conditions for competitiveness. This is something that will not be contributed to these concrete changes, but, of course, we welcome each and every one of us to implement this implementation of strengthening the preconditions for entrepreneurial activities. In this respect, we also welcome the construction and investment in entrepreneurship zones, entrepreneurship centres, business incubators, business accelerators, business parks, science parks, centres of competence, free zones and all forms of such projects, but we also warn that more attention is paid to this administrative bureaucratic and parafiscal part of the burden in which there is certainly a lot of room for corrections and here is one quality tax policy that would certainly contribute greatly to the desire and idea in that first step when the entrepreneur should be determined at all to access entrepreneurship. Unequivocally, all of the business zones that I have listed are established in order to create a quality entrepreneurial environment, but we stress once again this part that will contribute, apart from quality infrastructure, to the start-up and development of entrepreneurial activities, and which will ultimately contribute to the growth of the number of entrepreneurs, and thus also to employment growth. These are measures in the form of the release of municipal compensation as already exists, such forms of support that units of local self-government actually provide for a certain period sometimes, mostly 3 years from the very beginning of the production process. Therefore, the release of municipal contributions, communal fees, and we often have examples and co-financing of directorial costs. But often even with all these conditions, it is not easy and it is not easy to attract entrepreneurs, and it is precisely that country that can take similar steps and contribute to the reduction of parafiscal burdens and reduction of red tape. As for the other things that I mentioned, the questions about filling the zone when we look at the current situation then we can't be quite satisfied, we mostly have a situation that the zones are poorly filled and that use can certainly be better. Of course, honor to exceptions, we have examples of local self-government leaders doing a great job, but unfortunately, there are a large number of those who are less good at it. And that is why this topic needs to be approached much broader and more adapted to the field and perhaps access to some kind of specific strategy on economic areas that would aim at improving the fill-up and repairing the economic picture in such a way that we could in some ways encourage investments in certain regions. The third mentioned is the labour force issue in terms of the degree of strategic approach to activities and the adaptation of the conditions of the labour force offered in a given region. So it's important how much labour we have, where we have both the workforce and the professional staff and in order to actually adapt business zones in certain areas to conditions with the infrastructure offered or with jobs. Because I'm going to set an example in my county of Brod-Posavia where we have remained one large number of carpenters, tailors, seamstresses and similar waists, and here's a part of them separated, started to deal with this activity, and of course we are recognized by furniture production. But a good part of that frame has been untapped for years. Unfortunately, this is about the activity and the staff that is in the low-paid position of jobs, but that's another topic, I want to say an example that one of the foreign car seats manufacturers had just one strategic approach 10 years ago and over there opened a drive that is probably before the shutdown because it's closed, why I don't know, but I want to warn about how they actually went to this area knowing that we have a large number of frames in this area, these seamstresses, knowing that Slavonski Brod has a great traffic connection and they recognized it then, even I think they've been doing some kind of survey of this which, based on which they've established the location where they're going to open. What I mentioned were specific occupations, but the whole process is actually very connected in itself and I've now relied more on these larger production plants, but it doesn't always have to be that way is also similar to smaller activities. What we want to point out is actually this long-term process of integration. And again, we would refer to another local example of Slavonski Brod where we have the Faculty of Engineering, we study personnel, and parallel capacity reductions and the Đura Đakovic drives are being closed. So we're again producing labour for export, and we're not using and shutting down production capacities. Fourth and no less important is the relationship of the Republic of Croatia to real estate after the donation and supervision of possible abuses and malfeasances with donated land. We have heard a lot about this today, but they also need better and clearer legislative frameworks. Of course, state land needs to function as much as possible, it is indisputable and it is certain that the process of achieving a function and easier and faster to do exactly the units of local self-government, but we had examples of malfeasance, bargaining cheap purchases, expensive sales, but here I will do a little more in an individual debate given that I will not arrive. The Social Democrats Club as a sign of support for any effort to improve entrepreneurial infrastructure and strengthen the entrepreneurial environment will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79114	Thank you. We move to individual debates, the first is Mrs. Sanja Radolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79115	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs have today heard here the fact that the number of entries are actually falling into the single register of entrepreneurial infrastructure as regards the number of business zones themselves. Of course that trend is worrying. Why is that worrying? So because entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship zones are exactly infrastructureised areas that should have at least a solution to spatial planning documentation in theory, investors should thus obtain building permits and all other permits within very short periods. What I would like to highlight here today is an analysis by the Zagreb Economic Institute and which actually took a 10-year period of development of the business infrastructure itself in the form of business areas. The analysis they did showed that local units where business zones were successfully developed, so where local policy did part of its work alongside the country on 1 kuna, which the state actually added 3 kunas to the zone. In the analysis, they also pointed out that for the success of the business zone, a good partner environment is important for investors who, in turn, create the local administration itself in line with natural state policy by means of different programmes and policies as well as engagement. For example, cities and municipalities that were successful in this came back through a more successful budgeting process, such as the revenues of local units that successfully developed entrepreneurship zones were on average 60% higher than the revenues of local units without or with failed entrepreneurship zones. It should also be pointed out as regards unemployment itself that the analysis has shown that places with entrepreneurship zones have a 1 percentage point lower unemployment rate compared to places without entrepreneurship zones while the number of employees in the economy is double the size of places that do not have a zone. That's why I'm saying that this trend is just coming up worrying, so registration and registration of the entrepreneurship zones themselves as well as those that are not active. For this reason, the state must encourage further development of entrepreneurship zones, and it is particularly worrying that although we have had huge money from EU funds at our disposal, it has not responded in time and is concerned that, in fact, in the period until the EU's entry into the state budget, the co-financed construction of infrastructure in 347 entrepreneurial zones amounting to 700 million kuna. After entering the EU, the development of entrepreneurship zones has been co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and 46 infrastructure building projects in entrepreneurship zones totalling 260 million kuna have been co-financed through a public call for infrastructure development from 2017. So, for 430 million kunas less and 300 projects to build entrepreneurship infrastructure in entrepreneurship areas less than it was through the state budget. Obviously, we have to ask ourselves that we are much better at spending money on the burden of the state budget than we know how to raise funds from EU funds. Of course, there is also a major problem in the area of business areas related to the so-called They're selling cremary land. What does that mean exactly? This means that within some areas the country is sold, the investor sometimes builds nothing, and then the process of taking away the country itself is very complex. As a result, the country itself, in agreement with local policy, should, of course, advocate a concept with the right to build on which the investor is entitled to use the country, provided that it builds the facility as soon as possible, employs people as primary and starts to carry out its activities. After that, with a valid permit, he submitted a request for the purchase of the land. That would be a lot, a lot more transparent than this model that's being implemented today in our country. I also spoke in the replica about the great problem we face in the tourist belt. In fact, great nonsense is the business zone at sea in the so-called. a tourist belt covering a space 3 km from the coast. In this band, the contributions are much more expensive, and we have a whole range of entrepreneurs operating in these business areas, which do not operate in tourism, and part of their activity is not even under industry, so under a) they cannot use incentives for industry, and under b) they pay more expensive contributions just because they operate in the tourist business, in the tourist belt, and they are not engaged in any apartmentisation, or hoteling, or anything like that. So we will support this, but we believe that there is still much, much room to improve the very development of entrepreneurship infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79116	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash is on her way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79117	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, something I forgot on behalf of the club, and now I will say, so, in the debate on committees and plenary session, the topic opened because the termology used in the law was a land particle and then we pointed to the fact that it should be a cadastrian particle because the cadastrian particle is a termology that we use in all other laws and somehow I think it should always be uniform and the proposer is on the basis of a debate that was on committees or at a plenary session and I think it will make life easier for you too. Speaking of entrepreneurship zones, we have to ask ourselves two key questions. The first question is whether we want to develop entrepreneurship zones in Croatia, whether they contribute to the economic development of Croatia, whether they bring about the development of a particular part of our country and whether we want to further develop the topic of entrepreneurship zones at all. I must admit that for the first time in this way, the entrepreneurship zones met in Israel. And then I got there it was somewhere in the beginning of 2000, and then I realized what the point was that in one place you had, that you didn't spend space, that you had entrepreneurs in one place, that they could be pro-pulsant, that they could change or some things depending on the activity they're dealing with, and that's actually part of the development, so it kind of seems to me if it was good for Israel I don't see why it wouldn't be good in Croatia and I think it still needs to be developed. The second topic is land activation. So when someone looks outside at an entrepreneur who comes to the territory of Croatia, the state and municipalities and the city and what we call the central state. And when you start to explain to him that this land that you're talking about is being activated to organize an entrepreneurial zone, that it's a land that was once at the level of not those old municipalities that we had 115 in the territory of Croatia, and that now it's no longer a municipal area, but that the state took over at one point and then doesn't manage it in an adequate way, it looks at you with a sincere surprise, and it needs to cause a genuine surprise because the state is a state. So, the state, regardless, and when you see the courts, when you judge something that makes a community or a city, and then it's going to be tried at the state level. I am absolutely of the opinion that it is incomparable better to have the land that is held, which is not used to be used and activated. So, as well as the state of its land that it has that will never be used, it doesn't even keep a good record that it has to be used. And then we come up with a key question about what's happening to us here? And we're always looking at those bad examples and these bad examples you have countless, you have bad examples that it's really got land and it's never made itself an entrepreneurial zone but it's been resold as if you've got it in your inheritance. You have bad examples that it is used for agricultural purposes, you have more bad examples that we have land that the municipality or city has invested its funds related to certain municipal equipment that are not small funds and that it is then staring empty. But I'm kind of always thinking that we should stress that the joint association, so the community-level associations and cities are you and you and the mayors and mayors know these examples, don't have to listen to these speakers, that somehow in their ranks between that association they actually try something and do something and say, my people you give a bad picture of all of us, get together, don't do it, that all the activities of those that can be done from the state level to go back, to do a series of things, to do a series of things. That when it starts to drag around the media, it turns out everyone's bad, but we have good examples. I always read these laws in the context of good examples, and the context of good examples is to see those who do well what they need help to do even better, to work even better and of course that developing entrepreneurship zones is not the same in all parts of Croatia. As we have 556 units of local self-government we know that the range is 1 to 556, and in these cases it's not the same, but let's kind of put a tool in the hands of the good guys to be as good as possible, maybe start the bad ones too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79118	Thank you. You have two replicas of Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79119	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Taritash, that when we talk about entrepreneurship zones, we have better and worse examples, as well as when we talk about entrepreneurship incubators or when we talk about development agencies that are not necessarily in the service of only entrepreneurial infrastructures, but eu funds, etc. But what is crucial and which argument I want to overcome is, in fact, from your debate, the activation of land or the activation of state property in service or the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure or in the service of activation in this case of passive resource that we have is land, whether it is something else and so on. So, unfortunately, the state doesn't know what it has yet, let alone activate it all. We can see it in agricultural land, we can see it now with land for business zones, we can see it in real estate, etc. Although this law is one small step towards actually triggering that passive capital then it's working... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79120	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79121	Thank you very much. So, when you look at the report a little bit no matter what it was called during the time of the office that dealt with the management of state property so today it's at the level of the ministry and every time I read one thing and the same thing is that we need to make quality records of all the properties, this time I'm going to talk even about these land properties so I tell the buildings we have some records, but the land records we have very sloppy or nothing. So we should always look at it in the history of '91. that part of that land that was at the level of units or municipalities and cities that belonged to the state, not to say that you have part of the land that is in return, is not even harmless, but that I would always have one saying that the state is a bad master, is, it doesn't even have recorded what it has. But the moment someone says Now I'd like to deal with something then we've got 100 problems. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79122	Mrs. Marina Opaèka Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79123	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, here you really have set up your debate in a very good way and I like the general way in which you are looking at this topic in a comprehensive way. Of course, you said let the good ones be even better, we need to be encouraged, but I personally think that it is necessary to monitor these problems more strongly that we have talked about in subsequent malversions with these lands through an additional institution, so here we agree, whether we need to strengthen or create a new institution that will further monitor the treatment after the land is allocated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79124	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79125	Thank you very much. So, we're a small country, we're under 4 million inhabitants, and I'm looking at a colleague who's from Istria who sits there just like this. When you do something like a state, which inspectorate has some tools in its hands in Istria, it is known in Slavonia, and is known below in Dubrovnik-Neretva County or vice versa, then the same moment is known that the state takes care. If we're introducing a new institution, I'm afraid we should empower those who have these tools today. These tools still exist today, so if you have granted land to the state, not assigned but donated to the local self-government unit, and there someone planting red onions or potatoes, you have this hour of tool standing by with the donation contract to activate. When you first activated it, when you did it the second time, for the third time, no one's gonna fall into my head or plant red, I can't plant any potatoes, and even less sell as we have a case that he sold. I mean, that's the thing where someone should end up, we know where, but it's all a lot. Thanks, I'm past time, so I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79126	Thank you, thank you, and no more replicas. Thank you for warning me. Mr Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79127	Thank you. The law on entrepreneurship infrastructure and when we look at it that way when we see these few sheets of paper and these few articles, we think it contains everything. To be a picturesque entrepreneurial infrastructure and an entrepreneurial zone and what it is to develop and entrepreneurship in that space, gas, electricity, water, roads, industrial colossals, public lighting, telecommunications, optics, circular flows, intersections all that is necessary for anyone to come to that space at all. And then one thing that's key, 1/1, property 1/1. In order to come into possession of 1/1 enough land to accommodate some hall of 5, 6, 7, 10, 20,000 square meters, you must buy land from private owners and within that you have land that is state-owned. And now we're coming up with state property. At the beginning of the club, I mentioned something that welcomed me when I was a young politician, and now with this experience all those years I've been passing through from the central state office, from the AUDI Agency for State Property Management, since then DUDI and the special ministry to this day only one piece of information, in the state property existes one request from the city of Bakar in 2012. He was on several occasions lost in state property as these offices interfered with one another. The economy ministry agreed in 2019 to donate land, and today the land is not donated. And why am I saying this? Why is this law important and why is speed important? I'm going to give a real example of what happened to me specifically in 2011. At that time, the state donated 260,000 square meters of land to the city of Bakru in the business zone. So from 2011 to today, what happened in 10 years? There it happened that more than 3,000 jobs were opened in that space, that over the last year alone there has been investments in these 260,000 square meters of land worth millions and 200 thousand kunas, billions and 200 million kunas, and we are talking about a city with 8,000 inhabitants. Which meant these 260 thousand kunas and what it means for the city's budget, for the state budget, the county budget, because then my first budget was 15 million kuna, and now it's 115 million kuna just because it's invested in that infrastructure, in that land and this second part. What about this request from 2012? That request stands in the offices of state property, I hope they didn't lose it this time, but it's the land of a stoner and a schizo. We can't project that road on it, or gas, or water, or electricity. And I'm sure, that's what we talked about at the ministry, that's what I talked about at the Committee on Economy, that's what I was talking about with the minister that this government of the Republic of Croatia is finally going to cut and solve this problem. Because whoever's in charge of the local self-government unit, whoever encountered this problem, and whoever knows what's in his area knows what I'm talking about regardless of what he's in Istria, Slavonia, here in Zagorje or Dalmatia or in our Primorian region. Because that's the problem that people who often call themselves here and these speakers as some kind of local sheriffs are always among those 500, and I don't know how many municipalities and cities I'm not going to tell some idiot, but someone who's tearing down our reputation and making a lie that abuses something like that, but in it all together, no matter the color, we need to put our finger on it and say that's the one. Because they don't have party omens and they don't have color. They're destroying both us and you and the whole country. So what we talked about today, why this law is important and why it will be further worked on to speed up these processes. Because when someone steals your money, you'll always get your money back somehow, but if they steal your time, time can't come back. Because time had passed, and it was time when we had to build a road, when we had to build a gas pipeline, when we had to build a measuring reduction station, when we had to build a transistor station to enable that and such a business operator to build his own hall, and thus engage a construction operation. After building the hall hired employees and afterwards paid taxes to the state and communal fees and revenues to the local self-government unit. And that's the point of everything, very simple, just time. Let's not steal our time. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79128	Thank you, several replicas, Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79129	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, here's what we heard from your debate, in fact, about all the problems in the field. You've been head of local self-government for a long time, and among the first, you've set out in the entrepreneurial zone. Why do you encounter such problems when the state in charge of this knows that new jobs will be opened there, that certain people will be hired there, that certain families will live on? And do you think that this law that is now going to solve this problem of yours and that you will be able to do what you promised people and realize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79130	Lucky for me, I don't have that problem anymore, because I've solved a lot of these problems. I'm saying this because of everyone else in the Republic of Croatia because they're dealing with exactly those problems that we've kind of overcome. So there's a lot of misunderstandings, a lot of ignorance on the ground, a lot of things you don't even know. You have cases that I don't know in some business zone that the local self-government unit has designated for that purpose you have a 100 m2 tank trench. In order to get them, in order to solve that land, you must ask the Ministry of Defence to make that tank trench imagined during Yugoslavia into a catastrophe as such listed as an unspective military facility. To get land at all, it's not just free of charge, it's a state-owned land on some forest economic basis. You, when you get free of charge, but you have to pay the Croatian forests what is on the forest-economic basis is prescribed in order to grow the forest in 100 years, how much wood mass would it be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79131	Thank you very much. Thank you. Otherwise, I'm retroactively giving you my word, Mr. Klaric. ... Retroactively, I give you my word [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ma'am. [[- Yeah, good.]] Dragon, go ahead. [[I respect it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79132	Vice-President of HS, Col. Klaric, you have long experience from the formation itself, arrangements for business in entrepreneurship areas, so here's what we heard from your debate that you yourself have encountered certain difficulties and problems, not to mention barriers, in order to achieve the intention, which is the functioning of the entrepreneurial zone, so I ask you for your comment and how to solve it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79134	The biggest barrier I ever experienced, and all the mayors in the Republic of Croatia, was this Law when it was passed. Then a certain criterion was simply unnatural, abnormal. In the same basket was placed Zagreb and all its surroundings within 20 km. In the same basket of Rijeka and all the municipalities and cities around Rijeka, 30 of which measured the surfaces of all of these future zones in that criterion, so that any of these towns and municipalities around Rijeka would get land and it was simply a barrier that was insurmountable, and that is why these requirements fell, and that is why we turned where the door was open, towards private owners and bought land from them because it was simply impossible to solve with the state, and that was the period that had just begun to eliminate this government, there in 2018 because that criterion was cemented in that part that no one had decided anything anymore, and that I was not saying that they had lost all the demands when they moved from AUDI to DUUDI. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79135	Thank you very much. Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Budinsky. Ancient Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79136	Thank you very much, dearly respected Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Klaric, we have a production-processing zone, we have a service-mixed zone and we have a logistics-distribution zone, so I'm interested in your opinion, because as mayor and you have great experience, and your entrepreneurial zone is one of the more developed and you're well aware of the problems of local self-government units, how much can the unit of local self-government affect the selection of economic operators on the filling of entrepreneurial areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79137	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79138	Very much so. We've got it. /Intruder: Here you go. [[Mr. Klaric, I must, I must give you my word. Here's the answer.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can affect a lot. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] With us, the strategy is like this, of the 5 million squares of the entrepreneurial zone we have defined that 30% of the total area that will be filled with the zone can be exclusively production activity. 35% serviceable, so warehouses, customs, all that's in the function of manufacturing, these manufacturing, and 30% commercial activity, and that turned out to be a full hit, simply because I now see in shopping centres a large number of products being produced within and our business zone in the production plant. So, at first, there was criticism towards us that we had turned the industrial zone into a trade zone. No, we've got plenty of space, but whoever manufactures it has to store it somewhere, and what stores it, it's got to sell somewhere. So it's all one cycle and they all hire people and they all generate income and units of local self-government. and county and state. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79139	Thank you very much. Mr. Krusha.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79140	Thank you, Vice-President of HS, dear colleague Klaric. We are on the Committee on Economy together, so I am well aware of these topics from your very very frequent discussion of the constructive proposals that you make on the Committee on the Economy, and I am pleased to have responded to the call for a thematic session of the Committee on Economics to be held with you in the city of Bakru in the fantastic zone of Kukuljanovo. I wanted to ask you how much has the value of the land itself, within these economic zones, increased in some way over the past 10 years?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79141	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79142	Here, at first, in order to attract someone into that zone at that time called the twilight zone, we even freed the companies with 100% of the payment of the municipal contribution. The companies that were based in the area, registered with us, released in the area, but 30%. The land price was minimal at the time. Now at this point, by activating all of this, we in that area have about 200 business entities, over 4.5 thousand.../incomprehensible/... direct employees and land prices are now, from that virtually nothing, a few euros have come, now moving in values between 60, up to 200 euros per metre square. I think it's one number that, if you mentioned to a colleague in Slavonia or somewhere else, you'd do exactly what we were doing to give a meter for 1 euro, just to get someone to come and I was thinking that it would be worth more to us to give bad guys just for someone to come apropo all these stories that are [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here this one repeats. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79143	And Mr. Boric at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79144	Thank you very much, colleague Klaric. You are certainly one of the politicians, local leaders and state officials who has the opportunity to fight for entrepreneurship, to develop entrepreneurial zones, and I know the time when you became mayor to this day I know that you inherited some 1,000 employees in that area, they, you said now, 4 500 thousand, so in several terms you tripled the number of employees without talking about the number of entrepreneurs who found their place in your zone. I see you're fighting for the part where the state understands you in what you're looking for. So you're just asking for the support of the administration to make that zone... You're giving the inputs, the values you're making, and what I'm saying the most here, is why we've entered into space that we have to negotiate with the state in some way and talk when it's clear that there's one such zone that needs to be a self-port. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will restore all values without being slaves of those who are not able to solve what the state has also given them. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79145	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79146	That's exactly the point of what I'm saying. There are parts of Croatia where it is harder to run such activities, there are places where it is easier, but if we go generalising everything, so the law works at the level of the entire state, and for example, the failures and in some imaginary thinking that someone will abuse something, then we are on that path to impose some restrictions on ourselves. But here's the final example of us, we got 15 million kunas of European funds for the project built 2 km of roads, and we've already earned over 64 million kunas that have entered the budget. So that's the point of all of this that I'm talking about, so every kuna is invested and every euro is coming back, and it can only be returned in a way that opens up the workplace and that our young people, that our Croatian being stays here, that he has a job, that he has a decent salary. The existence and that it forms its families here. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79147	Thank you very much. You're free for now. Thank you. Mrs. Katarina Peovic is on her way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79148	Here's to listening to us some more instance I've just received two answers to the government's question about Mate Rimec and his other projects. But here, I'd like to say that we're going to put one amendment into the article. 9th is the original art. 29a and this amendment that we're going to invest we think might solve some of the problems that I've been talking about here through this example of the land allocation of Mati Rimac and, for example, the campus Rimac tried to show how when the ministry ex-recupys with responsibility, there's actually a lot of room left for malfeasance, and in this case we see that the case is. So the ministry didn't get rid of the land just like that, the ministry decided on the land and the contract to sign the lease is completely excluded from it in order to exempt it from responsibility. So sometimes intentions are simply such that rulings are not responsible for possible malfeasances. This is where Mayor Zurovec even seemed to me and naively set up all the happy open according to this contract, of course in the environment of all these climates that it is first of all entrepreneurship, that if an entrepreneur asks for something, you give it whatever analysis and any benefit of the local community so that this law really continues to go in this direction with this ideological story according to which entrepreneurs are the only bearers of progress, and the state to them should be a service means the market is worth everything except for privates themselves. So the market for... most, and not for privates, they can be given thick below the market price while, for example, some social housing as a project would certainly be welcomed with a skeptic. As we implement these neoliberal measures and policies towards this working majority, it means to favour the elites, to discriminate the working majority against the working majority in favour of the minority RF, it means that such a relationship with the privates will also be applied to us as well. So every available state property has to be done, I mean we're looking really minimally, it has to be done at market prices, that's all we're looking for, that means a business relationship to business market prices. In case of donation of property to units of local and regional self-government and this will be the content of our amendment, the Ministry of Economy must grant any further availability of donated real estate. So the Ministry of Economy must make an assessment of how much it is in favour of the community if the contract is signed harmful to St. Sunday or any other city, if it is seen that the rent itself will in no way benefit the residents of the working majority there in St. For weeks, the Ministry of Economy has an obligation to react, not to deal with this problem this nicely with this contract annex with St. Sundays and nobody. Now it's a problem for Zurovca, if there's any knowledge, and colleagues and colleagues will come sooner or later that contract is not in favour of St. Sunday. So when the ministry is taken away from issuing consent then there's room for malfeasance. It is evident from these very minutes of St. Sunday, so the city council of St. On Sundays, the councilors themselves are asking questions there, so if someone isn't going to ask us a question I think we've favored Mother Rome, I think it's okay that we're giving this land into invaluable property, asking for the removal of certain statements where it's pretty obvious that Mate Rimac has a father called the HDZ Councilman, and giving him an ultimatum to which deadline their request is to be resolved for this campus to be built or they're leaving, they're assessing the city of St. Sunday or it'll happen by 31.12 or we'll be gone. So that's where the line was really to draw and play in favor of that working majority, and unfortunately, the ministry is there... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79149	Thank you. Two replicas, the first line has Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79150	Honorable MPs. I'm really not a supporter of neoliberal ideas and I don't represent them here or in private life, but I have to say that we need to find a compromise. In fact, many units of local self-government to meet entrepreneurs are giving various discounts, a variety of ways to tell them how to help these entrepreneurs open their plants in these units of local self-government. In fact, it is that these plants employ people who are residents of that unit of local self-government. So we don't just favor the employer, or the owner, but also the people who work there. So, this may be some sort of exception, which you're referring to, but generally, All units of local self-government, so I think Mr. Klaric is going out to the entrepreneurs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to meet when something needs to be opened. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much, Mr. Pavić. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79151	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79152	Yeah, thanks for that answer. Here you see, fellow Pavić, there's now the Ministry of Economy should assess whether it's in favour of the local community, whether the projects that are being launched, so that's another content for which we don't have time to expose here, where there's also a series of problems with testing vehicles that the Roman has received funds for, and that any of us gets EU funds and a later year, more than a year with the report, would have some consequences, let it go for a year not to carry out a test of the vehicle under the pretext that it's about the crown. We don't even send a report on this, until today we have no answer on this, and we're not talking about the fact that the National Recovery and Resistance Plan says that its company will be given a billion and a half kuna, and the company means that there's no website registered to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79153	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Claric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79154	Here, colleague Peovic, I allow myself that you have not seen the donation contracts. So these contracts aren't what you're saying someone's giving someone something for free. Each contract shall have an estimated value by authorised houses, as far as it is worth, to whom both this and that value is given and why it is given. Every contract, even here in this law, and I believe, I hope you've read it, says what the terms of that contract are. What time you have to put it in, what purpose, if you don't put it back on. So St. Sunday didn't get it like that, so here's the deal. What you mention, Father Rimchev is via HDZ, so in St. Sunday he is not in the power of HDZ, but unrelated to who is in power to look at the other thing, and his colleague rightly said, who are the benefits of that investment of the land. Is this job, which is wages, which are revenues to St. Sunday, how much will be returned to the state budget, and will return far more if this investment is made than is worth that land? Then I don't know what you're talking about. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79155	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79156	Here's what I'm talking about. My colleague, no one argues that you should give the Ministry what I'm trying to tell you, give the ministry more authority to assess whether this project has such an opportunity as you do because you're always making up with it, so it'll bring a lot of employment, it'll bring investment, do we know that it will bring? We've been dealing with this issue for over a year and I can responsibly say that it won't, that it won't. If it were another high-inflated HDZ balloon, and the mayor's not HDZ, he's a former HDZ man, but he's also on the side. It doesn't matter at all whether HDZ or not, it's about interest groups that suit each other, and if you think that the 200 thousand square meters contract for lime per square is a monthly convenient contract for the city of St. Sunday, then we don't read the same criteria about what is favourable. You and Priory mean it's, he'll invest in jobs, opening investments, and I'm skeptical [[Thank you very much.]] So I'm looking for reasons for that. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Peović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79157	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. You don't have any more replicas, and now, Mr. Kruš, you've been up the line before, so we haven't responded, but now you've lifted the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so we need to react. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79158	Thank you very much, Vice President, here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure. 238, my colleague, Peović, is not well addressed to me because the company she is talking about is in Zagreb County from which I also come in communication with the owner of the company Mr. Romec and when he sought land across Zagreb County, my municipality of Dubrava, and from my municipality people travel to work in such a valuable company, so I believe that this company must be significant, both for development and for St. Sunday, Zagreb County, but also for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79159	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. You know it's a warning yourself because it was a replica. It means "remembrance." And now it's Mr. Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79160	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the debate that brought about 2 views of entrepreneurs, entrepreneurship infrastructure, we have one socialist debate because it is time for workers to manage where the worker is protected, entrepreneurs, etc. they worked as they did, never accountable for their sins, there was no collective responsibility then, for any misdemeanors that worked and we have a different view of entrepreneurship that we promote, which should be in the function of development, of course, with protection and entrepreneurs, but also workers who work with these entrepreneurs. Why is it so controversial for some to want to do something? They're slow because they're related, if you've noticed. They always have some information that no one has, and we know what people were called at such times in other countries. So today when we talk about this Law, we also have different views and we know how entrepreneurial zones were created. There was a time when there was no law, the same land was assigned. It was covered by spatial plans until 2013, since 2003, when most of the land owned by the Republic of Croatia was allocated. Then a law was passed that blocked us all for five years. I'll tell you, for example, I come from the island of Rab, two local self-government, each one has its own entrepreneurial zone, and our island is not from the end to the end less than 20 km, let's say. That distance couldn't be satisfied at all. So we blocked each other for no reason, we didn't have to do anything. So that's when the administration doesn't listen, when the administration orders or creates articles that block everything. There were also errors in the allocation of land, here, stated counterpart Klaric one zone along the highway half an hour from Zagreb, it cannot develop. Why? He doesn't know. But if it was a good location, it had infrastructure, it didn't happen. Whether it's local self-government, whether it's uninterested entrepreneurs, it's a question. I'll talk to you here in the part of the island. We have a dozen large islands on which we also have entrepreneurial zones. Micro, little, mixed, service, manufacturing activities, etc., and we are trying to repair what we inherited from the time of this lady when they ruled like this. What are they... ? They turned the most attractive land and the most attractive areas into an industrial space, i.e. They were always either a shipbuilding activity or those shipbuilders were building, they had to go by the sea, so it was in urban areas or on the island of Rab that they were developing companies where the halls were in the village itself, and you're simply spending 30 years urbanizing space and through spatial plans, etc., to get them out of these attractive spaces that became quite different, service now to other activities, which is tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course the leaders wanted to get out of that room and open up the entrepreneurship zones to get these people out of the way. Some with more success, for example in Krk, in Cres, Lošinj, etc., some with less success, but there was always a good intention of the state. We will give you the land to which you will benefit, and you will certainly earn nothing on that land. You'll get a short term maybe some income from selling land, but you're obliged to make infrastructure that costs, so that stake and return is always 0. You have no use for that, but you have done something to preserve the attractive space. opened a space for better activity, and he moved from the very center of urban settlements. And on the islands today, we have these zones, and I think a little bit of them get their function, no matter how many have not done what they want. We at Rab have a problem, when we have done everything we need and polls, etc., we have come to the fact that we no longer have the interest of entrepreneurs, they simply have too much to buy land for an island space. There is a limited number of entrepreneurs who can invest and give 30, 50 euros, about which a colleague in his zone speaks, for us is too much money, there is simply no cost to buy a plot of 10,000 squares. No one's going to build a big hall if they're dealing with some small production, some kind of construction product or something else, they just don't want to, and now we're in trouble, what are we doing here? So that's where the state needs to be a certain subport to help them achieve that original goal of being zones that realize what we wanted, which is to get away from entrepreneurs, to have arranged spaces, to work in them and produce products. So, islands are always a limited resource, and there may be some future changes to think about whether to remove them from that space because it is certainly not the same level of some kind of entrepreneurial zone on land. We just have to have the same rules there. But we see that something is happening quite differently. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Boric.]] That's all I wanted to warn you about in my debate. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79161	A few replicas. Mr. Klaric, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79162	Here, fellow Boric, you have quite rightly pointed out this problem of default zone. The Bosiljevo zone, it's as imagined as a zone, as is yours on the island. I'm getting circumstances because I don't know all the reasons simply at this point it's not filled, but what difference would it have been if it had remained state-owned or owned by a local self-government unit. It wouldn't have been filled in like this, with the fact that it's the responsibility of the local self-government unit to return it. On the other hand, and looking back, here, there's no colleague Catherine, which means if someone can't fill the business zone, that for 1 lip or 1 euro square metre, if they're going to bring him a hall, build a hall, hire, I don't know, 50, 100 people on the island, which would be significant. So it's not just about giving someone something bad, because the return is much bigger than the fact that it's still a stoner and an unsettled land. Here, that's the point of this whole debate in this direction of this law on entrepreneurship infrastructure, where we should go. So... The job is the point of everything. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79163	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79164	Thank you very much, dear colleague Klaric. That's the difference between you and Mrs. Devereaux. Peovic. So the job is important to you, she's not, she's dealing with quite some different activities and she's looking for her own political visibility, she's trying to promote a model that's probably going to find some people who like it again, but here she's attacking an entrepreneur who's done something, who's not a man who doesn't have his own name, especially now in this next generation's car industry, if we can say it, no, and now he's just got to deal with such politicians in public space for some reason. He's got his own, if someone's done something wrong, and he's rediscovering politicians again. Against what we've always been. It can't be politicians, and it can't be us, and it's up to us to create frameworks and make administration self-administer to local self-government. Suport. Don't let it stop us like a former government stopped us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79165	- Mrs. Crescent. Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79166	Thank you. Comrade Boric... The aim of investment in entrepreneurship infrastructure is to promote the economic development of the Republic of Croatia and to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, the creation of new jobs or employment, as is our goal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] What is your opinion, will these amendments to the Law we are talking about today improve and increase the development of entrepreneurship zones in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79167	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79168	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So, I looked at a presentation of the Association of Cities that clearly shows the value of the established land that... is somewhere and for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for supporting this supporting institution, somewhere around 2 billion and 700 million kuna in these 18 years since it's been run as some kind of registry, as something the state knows what it's been doing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did that contribute when we just look at that amount of 2 billion and 700, in these 593 zones where 50% is active, what is their return, let's say through employment, through the means that come by activity and everything else, I believe that it is multiplely larger than what the state has given. Did the state lose by activating such land? I don't think she lost anything. If it hadn't been for that, it would have been either ice or chicare or beauty or forest or something else today, and he certainly wouldn't have brought such measures and that's why the state is a good partner to the locals. Self-government, but don't let him doubt that local self-government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79169	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomislav Okrosha, somewhere behind there maybe? Unfortunately, he's losing his right. - Mrs. Crescent. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If we want to keep people in rural areas, we must provide them with jobs, which means that we must attract new investments and enable entrepreneurs to come into these entrepreneurship areas for which adequate infrastructure needs to be provided. There are less developed areas in Croatia. You spoke of islands that are not less developed than have other kinds of difficulties, but we know that Banovina, Lika, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatian Zagora and municipalities that work there are actually struggling with basic survival because their budgets are quite weak. If they have interested entrepreneurs who would like to join their business zone, and the entrepreneurship zone does not have adequate infrastructure, to whom can such a municipality address for financial assistance to build infrastructure and attract entrepreneurs who are interested to come and open jobs?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79171	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79172	Thank you very much, dear colleague. When we talk about entrepreneurs and workers, I'm going to go back to one of our colleagues here every day talking about workers and their protection or rights, and then somehow destroying the one who hires them with his policy, so we can figure out what kind of policies we're listening to here. As far as entrepreneurship infrastructure is concerned, it's clear, we heard there was only one competition in 2017. for the European Funds. Many have taken advantage of it, and their deadlines are running. Those who did not meet the conditions they had and promised to build infrastructure and bring investors, etc. They'll get in trouble, they'll have to look like they're getting back at some point. And these are the relationships that are easily crossed here and said, so there's no relationship, there's nothing the state has given you, you've sold, you've earned and there's nothing. So there are competitions from the Ministry of Economy, and that's the only place we can find room for entrepreneurship infrastructure. And I hope those who know and want to find ways, those who are a little weaker just give in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79173	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79174	Thank you. Dear fellow Boric, you have fully politicized this debate and your particular fetish on your colleague Peović is visible, so you have dedicated the entire debate to the previous replicas of Mrs. Peovic, I won't get into it, but it doesn't give you the right to insult anyone, including us, as you said, quote, that was when those similar to her were in power. I don't know what it's supposed to mean to you at all, and I certainly know that when you're walking around JLS, when you're going around their entrepreneurship zones that aren't completely finished yet, then you like to criticize the administration of the state administration when local leaders complain that the state bureaucracy and the administration are guilty of failing to complete the entrepreneurship zones. And I also have to look back at what you said we liked to put shipyards in the last 30 years. In the coastal belts. Mr. Boric, the Uljannik Shipyard existed since 1856 until it failed for your authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79175	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79176	Thank you very much. My colleague Radolovic, you did not listen well. I was saying that in those times the former states were the most attractive places just when we talked about islands then and Pula intended for shipbuilding because they were beside the sea and there were then certain industries, the population came from different parts and settled those areas. Today we have a problem, you've got it all wrong again, which we and things like that have to do because there's a second and stronger branch of tourism that simply can't liven up with such industries. Who destroyed the Oilman? That you have to ask your colleagues around you, maybe... you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you know who gave the guarantees, you know who put exactly, which party, maybe not SDP, maybe IDS, maybe you're together all the time there in a particular coalition or you've brought it all to an end. We're trying to keep it alive as long as we can, it's HDZ and in Istria no matter what you say about us. And what did you do? You destroyed that shipyard and now you're saying it's someone else again. No, you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79177	Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Mr. Boric, so the shipyard must be at sea, where will it be? - Mrs. Crescent. Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79178	Thank you very much, Vice President. You spoke of industrial areas on islands and attractive land in tourist resorts where such buildings were built and now they need to get away. Indeed land on islands and by the sea deserves special attention. In spite of the fact that we all want as many new jobs as possible, but we should not forget that our activity is basic to tourism. In the future, we all try to develop our agricultural activity as much as possible and this development of organic agricultural production so that such products can be found on our tables. Mostly business areas are next to these free agricultural areas and therefore special attention should be paid to and in some ways I would say and exclude the construction of an industrial business zone in our areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79179	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79180	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, here's the bottom line: I don't mind if we still have shipyards where they were and they exist today. I'll give you an example of a mud where you have a boatyard called Radesh, which is in the interior of the island, but it has its parts on the sea with which it exports sections, etc. And it's very successful. But I said why there were entrepreneurship zones on the islands and the need for them, to try to solve the issue of urbanization a little bit, and that what was some industry that was bringing people to the islands, whether it was this fish processing, whether it was something else that people could work with and make money for their lives today became problematic in the part of urbanisation, and that's why they set up entrepreneurship zones and they started their development, they didn't finish it, they have some problems. And I might just want to encourage the ministry that perhaps about this space that is really limited and different from what we have on land is in some future changes to think whether the same rules have for them or perhaps to help as island local self-government to solve it differently given the limitations of everything and resources and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79181	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79182	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here I always like to listen to my colleague Pavić, always learn something new, so here we have heard who is guilty of the destruction of Croatian shipyards, my colleague Pavić just don't know if it's Željko or Marko. No joke aside. So when we talk about entrepreneurship zones, when we talk about entrepreneurship infrastructure, a lot of things have already been said so far, I would not like to repeat, what I would like to repeat, and what I think is very important in this debate is the relations between strategic planning of such zones, their impact on certain units of local self-government and what these units of local self-government and these societies get as some kind of benefit, or as some plus. Now that may sound a little complicated when I set things up like that, but to put it a little bit more plastic, in a situation where, let's just say, in Osijek-Baranja County, you have 35 municipalities and 7 cities, and most of these municipalities don't actually have some logic of existence or it's self-sustainable, and it's logical, and then I ask you how such micro, mini-units of local self-government can actually plan something wider, more comprehensive and more serious. In other words, I'm going to give an example now that no one is offended, but here from my county of Drenje Municipality, they want an entrepreneurship home with oxy economic operators to deal with some activity, etc., etc. However, the municipality of Drenje, and because of its divorce, is one large municipality with a lot of settlements in a very large area, and because of the demographic situation of that population, there is simply not enough people to work in an industry, which will be employed in that business zone to be employed by these business entities, etc. Well, then I'm asking you a question, so what's the benefit of that local self-government unit? If we look at it so officially, harshly and sharply, let's say that some added benefit of that community won't be much, there will be some people who will work, but that main goal is actually not achieved but will come but will come, I don't know from nearby Djakov, it will come from not knowing the neighboring municipalities etc. So in some ways this entrepreneurial zone might actually be the least useful unit of local self-government. At one point in Croatia, we had an explosion of number of entrepreneurial zones, etc. Which, as a rule, had no logic, means neither geographically, nor location-logistic, nor is this about what I was saying, so some added value for the local self-government unit they're on. At one point, it cares about the end, there are no more entrepreneurship zones, at least not those to which the state helps, but it's still the fact that we have a whole series of entrepreneurship zones that are equipped, but it's still staring empty. So, some money is invested, even the electricity bills are paid, for lighting that area, but you don't have any business entities, the grass grows on these parcels, it costs to keep those parcels, or you have to cut the grass, you have to make sure that the forest doesn't literally start growing on that ground. So there's a question of cost-effectiveness if you want responsibilities, and then ultimately, the cost of maintaining such spaces. To short the story, and here I agree with my colleagues on one side and on the other, that we must not succumb to some rotten apple so that the English would say the spoils of the entire basket, or every grain has a weed in it. And in the event that we have state property or state property in this case, we must always be guided by good examples. But the leaders of local self-government units are primarily responsible to their voters and voters must be aware that they have the right and need to question them, and then eventually punish or reward depending on what the move was with their votes. Until the voters regain consciousness, I think we'll still have bad projects. And most of us understand the mayor, the mayors are responsible for people who want well with their environments, but I say because of this kind of make-up of our local self-government, it might be smarter to think about entrepreneurship zones at the level of counties that are still bigger and can round up logically some at least micro-region if we talk like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79183	Thank you very much. Mr. Željko Pavić's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79184	Your Honor. You've opened one topic that's very sensitive. In fact, when we talk about these business areas, when we talk about the development of units of local self-government, then we must also talk about strategies and the direction of development and the unit of local self-government that depends on the county strategy, which again depends on the country's strategy. Therefore, if we have a proper strategy and this business zone in this municipality of yours that you mentioned will actually be well targeted. Namely, you come from the agricultural area and now imagine that this is how the municipality prescribed it and wrote that in this business zone it will deal with the processing of agricultural products produced nearby. So everything depends on what's being defined what's going to be done in that business zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79185	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79186	So I agree with you colleagues and why I'm talking about the county, the county has a little bigger and a better view we'll say it like that. Here I'll give you again an example of my County of Osijek-Baranja where you actually have six micro-region Baranja, Osijek ring, Miholjština, Đakovština, our end so each end is specific in some way. For example, in Miholjština you have a lot of ponds, large fish production, aquaculture sites, etc. I don't know in Baranja, Baranja is rich in both water and hunting area and you have lots of vineyards or wine production, I don't know in Đakovština is something third etc., etc. Simple economic planning cannot be left to a small municipality, let's say, in the vicinity of Miholjština because it in that micro-area and that micro-region alone can do nothing, but all municipalities along with the town of Miholjc, which should always be a development generator can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79187	Mrs. Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79188	Dear colleague Hajdukovic. You were saying in your debate that in your area where you come from that there is a really large number of business areas that have not been realised and that in fact the intensity is still local self-government to be built and if you don't know how and for whom. I would also like you to comment on the fact that in eastern Croatia 40% of business incubators are also part of the business infrastructure, and all the research has shown that Croatia is at the very top of so 13 per million inhabitants, but unfortunately it does not generate absolutely no economic development. What actually happened in Croatia showed that we had no clear entrepreneurial strategy but that the incubators were only built to withdraw money from EU funds and today absolutely did not achieve any effect nor that transfer of knowledge between colleges, universities, companies and local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79189	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79190	My colleagues here are absolutely right and I'm not just talking about my region when we're talking business areas that haven't come to life you have some of them in Sisak-Moslavina County here's a concrete example of which I referred, etc. Yes, entrepreneurship incubators are at least supposed to be one good, good part of entrepreneurship infrastructure that encourages actually new companies, growth, transfer technology, innovation etc., etc. You have very good examples, and you have very bad examples. I think it's a good example. In Osijek, we also have an IT technology park which is the same newspaper for Croatia in Osijek, so we also have Osijek software city which is once again a different way of joint venture, let's say it's for entrepreneurs in IT and local self-government, etc. But in many other units local self-government creates the impression that if you use EU money without a vision, you do not produce a goal or that these projects were only used to entangle similars and that the result they were about to produce was not produced. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79191	Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79192	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, so I'm going to refer to myself at the very beginning of your debate. We often talk and we like to talk about decentralisation, so decentralisation was a hit topic for us at one point you know what we're going to do, so reform, so decentralisation but it seems to me that this is one way, not to me, not to me, but I'm sure, if we want real decentralisation, then this is one way. The fact that the state has on its lager some land with which it does nothing, which is like counterpart Klaric said there's a cross and stones, and that some units of local self-government have an idea about how to bring the purpose, how to put it into service, how to hire people to me is decentralisation, it's me that the state says okay I can't manage it, I don't want to need big resources, I need big systems, but I'll give it to whoever it wants. And that's why it's important that we actually know that we know that we know right from wrong And we encourage the good. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79193	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79194	Comrade Dark Tarrits can only agree with you. So you have a lot of municipalities and local leaders who have visions, and then they stumble, say, about the state, central state or bureaucracy of the same. You said one good thing I'd like to say and repeat because they say repeating is the mother of knowledge. So we have some property, that property goes down whether it's agricultural land, building land, real estate, something like that. We don't know, the state doesn't know what to do with it, if the state continues to rule won't be used, neither will any activity be brought in, but when someone has a vision or wants to master, we're in trouble. And you unfortunately have become a philosophy of some, and it's better not to do anything, so don't make a mistake than to do something and maybe make a mistake. And maybe you do a good thing, maybe create new jobs, maybe create new economic operators, maybe breathe life into one passive end, municipality, village as you wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79195	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79196	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I belong to that group of politicians who wants to send clear messages here from the Croatian Parliament. It often seems to me that you're sending messages that it's better not to have anything. Yesterday we discussed the state budget, we don't need social homes, we don't need kindergartens in Slavonia, now we don't need entrepreneurship zones, we don't need anything. And then we say that's where people don't want to come, they don't want to stay, they don't want to be. I think every municipality in the area, specifically the Osijek-Baranja County, should have an entrepreneurial zone. How big it will be we can talk about it, but we can create opportunities and preconditions, so that's the basis of both state policies and local self-government. So we can't say that it's hopeless in Drenj to have an entrepreneurial zone. Well, I think it's very important in Drenj to have an entrepreneurial zone for something that might come in a year or two. We can't all be Holy Sunday We can't all be at the end of the line, not even Bakar. [[Intruder: Time.]] But we have to get a chance, too, for those of us who live [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in the smallest units of local self-government. [[Agreement: Thank you Mr. Ivanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79197	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79198	I agree with you colleagues, but I don't know maybe you didn't listen to me yesterday or today. So, I said this is a good law, at least I think it's a step in the right direction if it's going to improve, facilitate the creation and entrepreneurship zones and the availability of state-owned assets that aren't used, I don't mind even dapaca. I've been telling you about something else, and these are some illogical things that I see, and you need to see not as a politician someone who wants to run public finances responsibly and who worked in the economy. Everything's got a receipt for you. And that's why I gave you an example of that empty economic zone, whose maintenance costs, someone invested that money in that economic zone, and the benefit was nothing in the end. And just because we come from a relatively passive neighborhood, we can't afford such missed projects. I was talking about micro-region maybe it's the way our municipalities and cities should be surrounded and in which we should Work. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79199	Mrs. Big Billic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79200	Thank you very much. You mentioned a lot of things, but among other things, you were talking about this unfulfilled zone that has a good part of the maintenance money, you mentioned the question of their inequitableness, or that some zones were built here without any specific geographical, operational or logistical logic. It would be related to what is a colleague Ivanovic, that in some parts we must have such zones that are ready if the entrepreneur decides to come, so we must have ready zones and we must have both a certain part and these a certain period of time of unfulfilled zones but not every municipality must have an entrepreneurial zone, indeed that circle can be expanded. And here it is, because I'm as crucial as I've said a strategic and a planic approach before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79201	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79202	Thank you, colleague. I also understand the logic of my colleague Ivanovic that we understand each other. I purposely set an example for you of an economic zone, I will not now advertise that municipality, but let's say that halfway between Zagreb and Sisak, where almost a decade of this zone is staring empty and almost a decade away, so the citizens of the taxpayers and the municipalities have to pay for its maintenance from lighting to cutting, so you can't let that space when you've invested so much already become devastated. And then we come up with this question of who's using it in the end? At least to that municipality, at least to those taxpayers who pay contributions in the municipality living there because they have only expenditure and only costs. It is clear that entrepreneurial zones must be empty for a while, and the sensations have, for example, filled with time. We have about ten more plots in the Nemetin zone, but let's say the Tenja zone is full, so it wasn't full all of a sudden it happened after a while, but you have to have a clear vision when in such a The project is entering. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79203	Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79204	Let me just say that I'm certainly counting on those who are sooner to do something than not to do something, here's to say... and entrepreneurial zones as ideas are certainly a good thing and the realization of some entrepreneurial infrastructure in which entrepreneurs will be able to create new values, open new jobs, but on the other hand, and you're right, there really are those who are here that someone mentioned here were only serving, so let's not have other eu projects, so let's think of something to draw money, and then about sustainability of this long-term sustainability nobody thinks, so it doesn't actually work out at the end, and when it does that infrastructure, it doesn't work to promote it, to encourage entrepreneurs to engage in such areas. And you have cases where the state gives the local self-government unit state property several times in a few terms before each election. I'm on my own...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79205	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79206	Of course, colleagues, such things can be used as tools to collect cheap political points, but they shouldn't be. So projects like this should exceed one power either that city, municipal, county or one party. You have a good example here I will mention my Osijek again, our entrepreneurial zones as the idea started one political option, one mayor continued second and third and now here it is and the fourth just continues on that trail, so there's nothing good to invent. But there was some, even though there was some criticism at first, there was some consensus and it was a good project. And now here's the HDZ mayor who's the last one on top of it, and of course I wish him a lot of luck to fill in the rest of the empty parcels that he's left behind. As far as I've heard some of the stakeholders have, there will be an invitation to tender very soon, some Italians came to see thanks to our general consul in Milan, so they should be optimistic. But I'm saying, any such project should have some vision, logic and strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79207	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Pavić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79208	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. I agree with a colleague who said that we must send clear messages from this pay phone, and in order to do so, we should have listened well to what colleagues say that the debate is not being dragged to the other side which almost happened to us at one point because here we are talking about a positive regulation, a legal regulation. And what I can say is I'm sorry he didn't come here early on the benches. You've probably heard from the Ministry before the call of entrepreneurs, the call of local self-government leaders, and I think that should have been dealt with a lot earlier. In this law, we have a lot of positive things that I believe should have been resolved before, I hope that this will be fully resolved and put into contracts that will be concluded with the local self-government unit, and then the local self-government unit as owners of entrepreneurial zones with entrepreneurs entering those zones and that we will actually have positive effects from this law. What I would like to personally praise is, among other things, the register of entrepreneurship zones as well as the register being introduced for entrepreneurial support institutions. I think that's important, that it's important, especially today in our time of digitization, to inform us that we have that data at hand. However, if I may say from this address book, I would like to add additional information to the register that would serve others who are interested in collecting data related to both zones and support institutions. What the law mentions is the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, I think we all have to say hello. If the property donated by the Republic of Croatia is not put into service within a certain period, it should be returned as far as I'm concerned, I would still... from all possible costs that were at the stage of creating that property in function or when it should be put into function. What I would particularly like to emphasise is a digital innovation centre that should support entrepreneurs in the process of digitising business or digital transformation and the development of digital skills. It is one of the areas that is certainly very demanding and that we will probably meet several times as parliamentary representatives and many of you who are currently at the head of the local self-government unit and those who are entrepreneurs in certain entrepreneurship zones and who will need to say something about it, given that we will probably find it very difficult to get experts who will be able to respond to all the challenges that will arise before them. In fact, we all know that today the IT industry is well developed, that IT experts are well paid and if JLS is going to have within its business zone fathers will have a digital innovation centre they will have to get rid of the bag well in order to hire people who will be competent and who will really be able to help entrepreneurs develop their digitalisation of business or in the phase of digital transformation and the development of these digital skills as provided for in the law. In order to make it kind of optimistic, here's what I'm proposing here from this pay phone to try to join JLS and to have a digital innovation center for more business zones. It is, however, a job that can be determined by many more business entities, which can take place for many business zones and I think that such a solution would be good, it would be optimised costs, costs would be reduced to half for JLS, and at the same time we could help a larger number of entrepreneurs in several areas near that digital innovation centre, of course within some business zone. If so, such a proposal could be accepted even later in another phase, we could put it into laws, in law, and that in some way 100% and prescribe it and define how to set it up. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79209	Thank you, too. Goran Ivanovic is looking for a replica, Mr. Goran Ivanovic is looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79210	Thank you very much. Mr Pavić, yes, surely the labour market or some new, new techniques and technologies are coming and taking up space and there is no speech. Here were also mentioned incubators and accelerators that may have been more modern 20 years ago. as projects that have been encouraged by the EU, but today may not be what, which will be a generator and a driver of these incubators and accelerators, but I think it's a good thing that we took advantage of the opportunity to take money from the EU, that we gave part of the people who wanted to deal in a different way with business, but that doesn't mean that these incubators and accelerators can't turn today into something or tomorrow that you're talking about, and that's this IT sector that certainly generates both a lot of labour and a lot of opportunities for progress and the end, at the end and the economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79211	Yes, I agree with you. In fact, today we heard a thesis that is completely wrong. Namely, those industrial zones, free zones, business zones, business accelerators, business incubators, centres of excellence, innovation centres, centres of competence, are not synonyms. So each of these terms has its meaning, each of these concepts behind it is something. And I agree with you what you said, of course behind that, there's a possibility that it can develop in one completely different direction and we'll see what will bring us time. In fact, digitisation and information is so intense, it's developing so fast not only for us but also in the world that it's hard to predict what's going to happen in 2-3 years, but we can say okay, we have a goal, we're going to set this goal, within the business zones we're going to have innovation centers that will allow our employers to move on into digital transformation and to prepare for a new time, for a new society that is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79212	- Mrs. Crescent. Ancient Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79213	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić, here is today the 4th reading of the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure and is always trying to get out of the law... It also improves to listen to the market to listen to JLS and the economy, I think that's the part. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for what you said about this IT sector coming up, and digitization is probably going to be those entrepreneurial zones or JLS that are going to do it, and there's going to be those that aren't going to do it, and then in a few years, when something's probably changing, we're going to talk about that they're being developed somewhere, there's not an entrepreneurial zone. I think it depends very much on JLS leaders, of course, on the ministry and on the projects coming from the EU. I want to know what you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79214	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79215	Well, yes, not dependent, it depends not only on what you've listed, it depends on entrepreneurs, on the structure of entrepreneurs who are in the business zone. Some will be more interested in transforming digitally, moving in the other direction, some will not be. Of course, it depends on who they are, what their intentions are, what their goals are. Those who will have... The objectives set will have a better strategy, they will certainly use these services that are related to digital innovation centres. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79216	Now we move to the final, final words, final examinations, in front of Mrs. Hope, Dreven Buddinski, here you go. I get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79217	State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure entered into force on 27 July 2013. and it systematically and transparently defines the basic issues of the arrangements of the entrepreneurship infrastructure system in the Republic of Croatia. To date, we have had 3 amendments to the law, the third amendments to the law came into force in July 2018. and included free zones in the entrepreneurship infrastructure system and the obligation to fill existing entrepreneurship zones from 66% to 50% in the local and regional self-government unit that submitted the grant application. In the unique register of entrepreneurship infrastructure in mid-October 2021. 592 entrepreneurial zones of which 290 have been verified, and 265 entrepreneurial support institutions of which 203 have been verified. The verification dynamic depends on the founders and delivers the documentation available. The development of the entrepreneurship infrastructure system is a sustainable process and an important topic for the economy because it is a function of faster development of entrepreneurship to increase investment and employment, especially since small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are the most numerous users of entrepreneurship infrastructure. The attractiveness of a particular zone for entrepreneurs is seen at the level of its infrastructure equipment and this energy, communal, transport and communication infrastructure, and is an extremely important factor in the transport connection of the zone with the main roads within the Republic of Croatia. Availability and qualification and quality of the workforce, and for individual users and the proximity of foreign markets. A key role in the establishment and development of entrepreneurship zones, increasing cost-effectiveness, building a zone and increasing the number of enterprises operating in these areas have units of local or regional and regional self-government as founders who independently contribute to the development of an entrepreneurial environment through the creation and implementation of programmes aimed at developing entrepreneurship, attracting potential investors into their own area. The main role of entrepreneurship support institutions is operational, providing support to entrepreneurs in all phases of business development, and these services are education, workshops, seminars, organisation, going to fairs, conferences and the development of business and marketing plans, i.e. analysis in the interests of entrepreneurs. The successful functioning of the entrepreneurship infrastructure system requires both a quality and a clear legislative framework. The current implementation of the law has pointed to the need for further improvement of the entrepreneurship infrastructure system because certain phenomena have been identified which have not been regulated or not been sufficiently regulated so far. The reasons for these amendments and additions to the legislative framework are primarily in order to improve the business of operators of entrepreneurship infrastructure. This draft proposal provides for an amendment and addition to the provisions relating to the defined and legal status of operators of entrepreneurship infrastructure, the definition of the criteria of the procedure for handling in case of availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia for entrepreneurship infrastructure and the regulation of the status of the single register of entrepreneurship infrastructure as reference database for entrepreneurship infrastructure entities. The Act on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure is shared, in the section relating to the area of the entrepreneurial zone, differs the terms of the total available and active area of the entrepreneurship zone. The total area is defined by a spatial plan and a decision on the establishment or founding act which contains all cadastral particles in the defined range of zones and which make up a unique whole regardless of whether or not the coverage of the zone enters the entire cadastral particle. The available area is the area for entrepreneurs to carry out entrepreneurship activities, and the active area includes those particles on which the entrepreneur has started construction or entrepreneurial activity or is already active. The units of local or regional self-government, which is the applicant for land donation owned by the Republic of Croatia, shall be obliged to submit data and documentation within 40, 45 days of the date of receipt of the request by the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure will enable units of local and regional self-government to be better filled in their entrepreneurship zones, thereby contributing to the growth of the economy and employment in their fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79218	You, too. Ms. Marina Opačak Bilic, Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79219	Thank you very much. I will use this final exhibition to point out once again on behalf of the Social Democrats Club the importance of the overall approach of strengthening in entrepreneurship, the importance of encouraging investment and supporting those who want to decide on a business venture and the role of the state itself. I will repeat that it is necessary, to a greater extent, by the state, to implement measures to facilitate and encourage exactly the strengthening of entrepreneurs and their competitiveness. I will stress once again the issue of red tape and administration as issues that discourage beginners and reject investors. As far as quality tax policy is concerned, I mentioned earlier parafiscal burdens in which there must be room for corrections, and they would greatly contribute to the desire and idea in the part where entrepreneurs need to decide on access to entrepreneurship. I would mention another example of a possible discharge that I once proposed at the county level at that time as a councilwoman, which I think would affect mainly micro-entrepreneurs. So it's about the fact that a good part of the new young companies in the establishment of companies, of course, have to report the headquarters of companies that often change in these initial days of business until the company finds an adequate and satisfying space, which is, of course, one additional financial cost on changes in the court register. And then I suggested that the county set up, for example, a single incubator or office, one location that would serve as a registration function for the address of entrepreneurs, so that all those who wanted to have the opportunity to report the company's headquarters to that unique address of that county office. So we would actually reduce here the possibility of additional costs, at least in this first period of business. Here's a mini-small example that's expendable and useful. I will further mention the importance of supervision by the state after the donation of real estate to local self-government units. We had examples and malfeasance and abuse when units of local self-government were. their leaders have not ensured the formation of entrepreneurship zones or are in collaboration with the so-called entrepreneurship zone. entrepreneurs abused the purpose of the zone. There's something about it we've heard about today and before from our colleagues. And we have such examples all over Croatia, and just to reduce the possibility of such cases, it is necessary to specify in more detail the preconditions that local self-government units must meet in order to donate land owned by the Republic of Croatia. And I'm asking you this way to the secretary of state that you're taking measures to prevent these examples from happening, and through which institution you're currently taking care of this. I will mention here local because I am local examples of instructions and in the opening presentation, I will mention an example of a unique fraud when in the Sibinj municipality area, which is in excellent position, is based on Slavonski Brod, has excellent traffic connection, has an exit on the highway, which the state has donated land for the construction of a small economy zone, and then, by favouring a particular person, have enabled pre-arranged companies and natural persons to acquire property over high value plots and acquire illegal property benefits and, without taking over the time, any obligations to start works or carry out economic activities in the zone, which, at that time, has damaged the state budget for more than 60 million kunas. Therefore, I ask that further arrangements be made for this donation of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia and that arrangements are actually made available to state property in such a way as to require responsible and rational management with clearly prescribed and previously known criteria, and since the same is the property of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Here we are in the Social Democrats Club, in any case, supporting every effort to advance entrepreneurial infrastructure and strengthen the entrepreneurial environment, and through this law whose changes are good and which we welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79220	You, too. Mrs. Sanja Radolovic is in front of the SDP's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79221	Once again, I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. We've heard a lot of things here today about the very entrepreneurial infrastructure itself, and I think we can all agree that with these amendments to the law, let's just say the declared small steps are moving forward, but we still have a lot of problems in this area. We also discussed that nearly 600 business zones were registered in the single register of entrepreneurship infrastructure, but that it concerns the trend in the decline of entrepreneurs' entry into the same register. I also spoke today in my debate and about the analysis of the Zagreb Economic Institute, which observed the ten-year period of development by word zones and their impact on the overall social economic impact on local self-government units, thus showing that local units added three kunas to the area. It has also been shown that places with business areas have one percentage point lower unemployment rates, as well as that the average income per capita of local administration units with business zones is 7% higher, and the income of entrepreneurs is twice as high because the results of the development of the zone are being poured into business activities outside them. It is important to mention that the greatest effect was achieved through exports, so companies operating within the zone have up to twice the income from foreign markets compared to companies operating outside the zone. However, there is, of course, a problem of selling the country or not fulfilling the construction of the country when units of the local state hand it over to a particular investor. Very often we meet with investors never building anything, the country's confiscation procedure is therefore very complex. That's why we're advocating so-called. a concept with the right to build, where practically an investor would have the right to use the country provided that, as soon as possible, he builds a building, hires people and starts carrying out his activities, and, of course, by means of a valid permit, he submits a request for the purchase of land. What we are particularly concerned about in coastal destinations is the business of a business zone at sea where a large number of entrepreneurs are faced with having some of their own industrial halls in the so-called ". The tourist coastal belt stretching up to 3 km from the coast and actually paying much more expensive contributions, even though it is not a tourist business at all. We find that extremely unfair and we think it has to change. But it's not just the business infrastructure of the business zone that we've mostly looked back on here today, for example, the development agencies that have received big money from eu funds, especially for technical assistance. And I'm really wondering if some analysis has been made of how many entrepreneurs have knocked on the door of these development agencies across our country and how much has this technical assistance that millions of euros have been sent down to them? Except for the business zone, the development agencies should certainly mention the business incubators themselves. I must say that 55 entrepreneurial incubators and technology parks are registered in Croatia today, although these include some who are in liquidation or bankruptcy, as well as certain consulting agencies that have entered the register under incubators and technology parks. Also, according to the analyses and research carried out, we are at the EU summit by the number of entrepreneurial incubators, so we have 13.4 per million inhabitants. The Netherlands, which is much more developed than us, has only 0.37 per million inhabitants and research has shown that in fact the number of entrepreneurial incubators does not mean and does not necessarily lead to the generation of some country's economic growth. What's so special about us? So, for example, 40% of all incubators were founded and registered in Eastern Croatia, and it was actually shown that incubators had not established and registered to really generate some knowledge-how transfer knowledge between universities, universities, economies, state administrations but rather those who were more capable, those who hired better consultants for eu funds withdrew millions of euros from four calls that were for entrepreneurial incubators, and unfortunately today they are with the key in lock and that is not the strategy for developing entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship infrastructure that should be implemented today in Croatia, but they should see that all these entrepreneurial infrastructures realize what they should actually be intended for, and that is economic growth and development of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79222	Now it's Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash's turn in front of the Center and GLAS Club, also final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79223	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, this is one of the changes and additions of the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurial Infrastructure, which we all talked about in the name of clubs, but also in an individual debate we talked about in a way that is a step forward, that is acceptable to us, that we should develop entrepreneurship infrastructure, but as we all in this assembly look at different glasses, so someone has those glasses that are so transparent, someone has pink so we hear each other, and this debate has not been left without someone else who has heard that someone else is not for progress, that it is not for development, that it is not for a step forward, I have to admit that in the debate I have not heard it. In the debate, I heard the following, that we should continue to develop entrepreneurship infrastructure, that we should make sure that we are better, that we are more successful, that we have recent examples of all units of local self-government or municipalities, that the cities have not all been adequately treated, that we have a real situation where the country has been used to donate land, and that this land has been sold very quickly, which is absolutely illegal for other options, for some other variants, that someone has used this land for planting I don't know any potatoes, red onions, and that we also have municipalities and cities that are doing it successfully, which are good and which therefore increase not only their budget but also enables better lives of their fellow citizens, but budget and RS. So good investment and good always feel and feel where, feel on the budget. So that's what we said through the debate, what we pointed out through the debate. What we also pointed out, which is that it really should take care of and be faster and more expedient when we know that someone abused, worked against the law, imagine he got or the state gave him land for entrepreneurial infrastructure and he sold it tomorrow. It's like he got it himself, so I'm personally filling my account. So that's something that we don't need to discuss at all, but we need to point out, we need to say a few times, and we need to look for the results of all this. What happened? What happened to that chief, what happened to that land, what happened to all this together? Imagine when someone sells you a stolen car and you've been driving that car for years, when it's established that you're missing that car. If someone sold you land for which they weren't supposed to sell, you're out of land, and this one has to answer, so sue, but so much for it. What I want to point out once again, which is no one has a magic wand and I am sure that for both these amendments and the additions of the law in half a year or a year there will be some conditions and some options in which they will say e, now in law it is not good and that is why the laws go into changes and additions. But what we must strive to do, which we must make sure that we know that we have to determine what our top priorities are. I read priority number one from this law, that we will continue to develop entrepreneurial zones and really help those who are good to be even better because then I am sure that those who are worse or worse will look at role models in good, that we should not look at role models in the worst and the worst than in the good ones. The other thing is to activate state property. And I really think this is one of the ways we talk decentralisation. So the possibility that units of local, regional self-government have the same option, but here we're primarily talking about municipalities and cities, they're developing, that they really have the possibility of further progress, and I'm reading it as a decentralisation. Because there isn't a country and there shouldn't be a country that's going to develop entrepreneurial zones at the state level because that's not going to be a good thing. It should give opportunities, it should be a port, but it can't be the way it is. And there's one topic that I'm going to be here for the last 20-30 seconds, we've been here all along talking about land, we've never once mentioned abandoned factories, abandoned spaces used by the military, abandoned by any other production halls where there's not a theme of ownership, but it's their own state. It's called.../incomprehensible investment. These are spaces that have built infrastructure from another time, and we should start thinking that these are spaces that need to be brought in for purpose because we're in the development of states and cities. I skipped it. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79224	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79225	The next item is the statement on the amendment to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, second reading, P.Z. 177. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Katarina Peovic. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendment submitted, respecting Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable MPs and MPs, the amendment is not accepted. Namely, the donation of real estate to units of local and regional self-government is prescribed by the provisions of the Law on the Management of State Property and belonging to the sublaw or the Regulation on the donation of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on State Property Management entrusted the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property with the exercise of ownership powers in relation to state property. So the entire real estate donation procedure owned by the Republic of Croatia is carried out by the competent Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property. Only the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development gives an opinion on the eligibility of donations when real estate is intended for entrepreneurship infrastructure and this is based on the conditions in the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79227	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79228	To put it this was a brief procedure, you quickly gave your opinion. And if I get it right, so the Ministry of Economy gives an opinion in such cases, but what was said here was about the meaning of this situation when, because here it was about this and we tried to protect it, when the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of State Property gave away real estate that it was not being solved, so it's not the end of it that means their control over it. Now it can be placed on this or that ministry as some kind of obligation, but it is important to keep an eye on how it is used and whether it is, is in any way, in favour of that social majority. But anyway, we're going to study all these laws that you've given us now and try to get it through whatever it means for whatever ministry that such cases don't happen because here we have a situation in the Holy Week where literally for 1 lip, rents land it can't possibly be a benefit to that community. 4 times higher in other environments and in other cases at least means paying such land. Thank you. I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79229	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79231	We move to the following points of the agenda, because respected MPs and MPs as we decided yesterday to move to a united debate on points two from 2 to 9 of the agenda of the debate today, namely: - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of NATO's Armed Forces in the Republic of Poland - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of NATO's Armed Forces in the Republic of Lithuania - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ‘SEA GUARDIAN’ operation in the Mediterranean – The proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation of the ‘INHERENT RESOLVE’ – The proposed Decision on the participation of the European Union's members of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia The proposer of these decisions shall be the Government under Article. 54. Defence Act and Art. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Sir, please take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79232	No, it's not a break, if I may ask. Because it's the practice of this assembly when the debates are united to pray nicely for 15 minutes on behalf of the club. That's how it was now that we had a united debate on social protection, too. I'd like to pray nicely. It's been a practice so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79233	The secretary of the session tells me that it... Wait a minute, wait a minute, excuse me, the secretary of the session tells me that it wasn't practice until now. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79234	What do you mean, it's not? Well, we've had a united discussion this week.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79235	Okay, we'll give, we'll give, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, let's go to compromise, 5, 5 minutes you can make a deal anyway there's a little bit of you here, 5 minutes here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79236	About the extension on behalf of the club, we didn't say goodbye, from 10 to 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79237	Okay, and then after that, after that I'm going to... So we break the point after that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means up to one hour. How about you speak for the club? [[So give us 15 minutes to talk on behalf of the club, let us please.]] And I thought you wanted a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79238	All together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79239	And you speak for the club? Here, here, I didn't, I didn't hear right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79240	I'm sorry, it's come to [[She's looking on behalf of the club to talk for 15 minutes on behalf of the club.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79241	Let's not yell, no one, no one, no one, no one yell. You want to speak now on behalf of Yeah. [[Not now, otherwise every club has 15 minutes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79242	I asked the debates on behalf of the club to be 15 minutes due to the unification of a large number of points.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79243	Okay, okay, even though the secretary says it's not, it's not a practice, we'll do it, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79244	But lately, that's how it's been.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79245	Okay, okay, okay, we got a deal, we got a deal. And now I'm giving an opening statement to Mr. Branko Hrg. I was convinced the whole time you wanted a 15-minute break. Here you go. Because you, from here, can't be heard well because there are two plexiglasses. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and representatives of HS. HV has a long tradition of participation in international operations and missions since 1999. when the first members of our armed forces were sent to the UN peacekeeping mission in Sierra Leone. Today, armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are participating in 7 operations, one NATO mission, and one NATO activity with a total of 251 members and members. You today have proposals for decisions on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the following activities and operations. The activity of a reinforced NATO frontal presence in the Republic of Poland. By participating in NATO activities, we further develop capabilities, and we raise interoperability with the forces of other Member States. 2017 The first contingent of self-contingent multi-state rocket launchers with 78 members was sent. Since July 2021, there has been an 8th contingent of 80 members in Poland. The participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in 2022 is proposed. as part of the US-led battle group with the possibility of sending up to 90 members with the current capacity of a single multi-ployer rocket, and a reference of up to 90 members with the possibility of rotation in 2023. with a new ability to beat the pancer of the hoodie in 2000. Activities of the reinforced NATO's forward presence in the Republic of Lithuania. In the Republic of Lithuania, in December 2017, a mechanized pedestrian company with 188 members and up to 20 fighting armored vehicles was sent to the SR Germany. Another Croatian contingent with 188 members participated in activities in 2020. The mechanized company carried out a training cycle of combat shooting exercises, which successfully presented HV, equipment and weapons. The involvement of armed forces as part of a battle group led by the SR Germany in 2023 is proposed. with the possibility of sending up to 200 members to the Republic of Lithuania, therefore, a walking mechanicalised company. Operation to support peace "SEA GUARDIAN" in the Mediterranean. The success of the peace support operation has a direct impact on the potential and security threats and maintaining a safe and stable situation in the nearer area and the Adriatic Sea area, which directly affects the Croatian economy and social development. Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are in 2019, '20. and '21. participated in this operation with 33 members and Croatian Navy Dubrovnik. It is proposed to refer to the "SEA GUARDIAN" peace support operation in the Mediterranean in '22. and in '23. up to 35 members of the armed forces by ship of the Croatian Navy with the possibility of rotation. The Inherent Resolve Operational Coalition Force, the Republic of Croatia, will contribute to the international community's efforts in the fight against terrorist organisation in '21. We have an officer in an operation in Kuwait Command. It is proposed in the US-led coalition forces operation in Kuwait and Iraq in '22. and in '23. reference to three members with the possibility of rotation. NATO's non-combat mission in Iraq supports NATO's role in supporting and developing a professional military education system and in reforming the Iraqi security sector. Expansion of advisory and trained activities will contribute to further effective construction and consolidation of Iraqi capacities. In '21. We have seven members in Kuwait Command. In a mission to support peace "NATO mission in Iraq" in '22. and in '23. The proposal is to refer up to 10 members of the armed forces with the possibility of rotation. EU Operation "EUNAVFOR MED IRINI" taking into account the strategic national and foreign policy objectives of the Republic of Croatia, the objectives of the EU Common Security and Defence Policy and the objectives of this operation are proposed to continue the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the operation. The participation in the operation shall ensure the continuation of the existing contribution by the Republic of Croatia to the EU's efforts to ensure peace and stability in the Mediterranean as well as the expansion of the situational awareness in this area. The Republic of Croatia has been participating in the operation since July 20th. with the completeness of one position in the operational command of the operation. In the EU operation, it is proposed in '22. and in '23. a reference to three members of the armed forces with the possibility of rotation. NATO Operation Allied Salace in the Republic of Kosovo Foreign Ministers of NATO member states concluded in a joint declaration that the alliance should meet obligations on the safe evacuation of allied party states and citizens of Afghanistan who have participated in the Alliance's efforts over the past 20 years. The North Atlantic Council has given NATO military authorities the task of ensuring that evacuations are carried out at temporary locations until moving to one of the Member States. One of the two European sites for temporary accommodation of evacuated Afghans is also a camp in the Republic of Kosovo. The Supreme Commander of Allied Forces for Europe has asked the Allied States to contribute to the activities of temporary care with health teams in order to provide health care to evacuated persons. By participating in this operation, the Republic of Croatia will contribute to ensuring living conditions for evacuated persons as well as to allied efforts in the operation. I would especially like to stress here that we are sending a pediatrician to camp for children present there to provide support and assistance. It is proposed to participate up to three members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in this operation by body in '21. and in '22. with the possibility of rotation. The deployment of members of the armed forces in NATO's NATO command structure to the structure of forces and other national and multinational commands in operations and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership. By joining NATO, the Republic of Croatia accepted the obligation to participate in the work of the NATO joint bodies. Armed Forces members referred to such positions and duties may be deployed to NATO operations as a strengthening of other headquarters and commanders for a period of up to one year. Armed forces in NATO's command structure and other national commands can be deployed in '22. and in '23. If necessary, the services shall be referred to operations and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership in the tasks they carry out in their duties. A maximum of 100 members of the armed forces may be deployed at the same time in the operation and other activities abroad led by NATO. The financial resources for the implementation of these decisions shall be provided in the state budget in the division of the Ministry of Defence. Dear MPs and members of the HS, please give support for the proposed decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79247	Thank you very much. Stay here. There's a replica. I'd only ask that now that you're talking or replicating just to put down the mask because with two plexiglasses, it's all becoming incomprehensible. Here you go, Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79248	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In the last 20 years, nearly 10,000 members of the armed forces have participated in various international missions and operations, I am interested in the most important experiences and lessons learned by these members, how much we use these experiences and lessons after these members return to the Croatian army, i.e. how much we use for our military school and do we prepare any of these members with such experiences for work tomorrow at the University of Defence and Security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79249	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79250	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Absolutely, therefore, all these experiences that are gained in international missions and operations after returning to Croatia are those people who have passed on these experiences to the system and in the preparation of those who will go into the future, and one part of them will, of course, participate and play a part in lectures and education, so through the Croatian Military School itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79251	Mr. Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79252	I'd like to express my dissatisfaction, first of all, why these points are united. These are completely different things, so it is a completely different debate and a decision to send nearly 300 people to the eastern front, 200 Lithuania, 90 in Poland, and whether we are going to send a pediatrician and two nurses to help refugees or an operation that is not under NATO as others, but under the EU where it is not clear where we control some arms embargo in Libya and prevent illegal oil exports, and without any information that is happening there, which is not affected by this embargo, which, for example, should not have been combined in one debate. And second, it's a shame we didn't get one quality information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the geostrategic context and the political situation in a particular area where we send our people, as well as a risk assessment. Which here is low, which medium and which high... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79253	Thanks a lot. Not getting into what you said, but what you said about the merger debate, you should have said in the morning. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79254	There is no specific answer because the esteemed representative in principle expressed dissatisfaction with the lack of opinions and attitudes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that the debate was united. I can't comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79255	Mr. Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79256	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State has already heard that the Republic of Croatia has been participating in peacekeeping missions and operations since 1999. This takes care of everything in a kind of crisis, we are trying in a peaceful way to solve the crisis, but we are also protecting our values and interests both as a member of the EU and as a member of the UN and as a member of the North Atlantic Union. Since time has passed, then, what is the feedback from all these organizations to the Republic of Croatia and its participation in the operations so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79257	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79258	Thank you very much. What we can be proud of and truly satisfied is the fact that all of our members of the Armed Forces who go therefore to these missions and operations there are highly appreciated, to achieve excellent results and thus to promote the Republic of Croatia and our Croatian army, as well as us as an active country, so that feedback is extremely quality and good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79259	Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79260	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here we are today talking about 7 operations and peace missions and maritime missions to which we send our soldiers and there is a significant number of members of the Armed Forces and of course we cannot discuss each point in particular, so I am interested in your knowledge in the development and acquisition of new experiences and knowledge of Croatian soldiers participating in peace missions and operations both in Europe and in the world. I believe that to strengthen our Armed Forces, it is important to exchange experiences and stay in other countries and with members of other armed forces so that they can implement more positive and advanced activities in the development of our Armed Forces because the changes in the world in all spheres of life are very rapid and in the Armed Forces, so I am interested in what you consider to be the benefits of the participation of our Armed Forces in the missions and operations in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79261	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79262	Not only do our soldiers, distinguished MPs, arrive at new knowledge of what is normal to arrive at international experiences, but we and our skills are being passed on to them because unfortunately the Croatian army was created in something that the countries in the environment and NATO member states do not have all the luck in such a situation. Our armies were created in the Homeland War, very fresh, it's 30 years old, so our experiences, these knowledge is passed on to other members from other components, and it's one such mutual collaboration, mutual transfer of knowledge. On the other hand, it is very important and important for us to see what is happening in the world, what is happening in developed countries in order to apply these experiences based on what we already have in the Croatian Army.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79263	Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79264	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Croatia's entry into NATO has made it clear that we have accepted certain obligations stemming from the alliance. Now Croatia is currently participating in peacekeeping missions. We have here you have said and we have left the war unfortunately but fortunately as winners, we have our own state and we can now give others advice. Tell us if so far there has been pressure on Croatia given the geostrategic movements that one day Croatia participates in both war operations and how we will behave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79265	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79266	Thank you very much, Your Honor, so what you've mentioned yourself, these are all peace missions. For now, we do not have such pressures or demand that Croatia participates in war operations, and how it will be in the future will be decisions that will later be made when the time comes for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79267	Mrs. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79268	Good afternoon, I'm interested in how much the total annual NATO mission is spent, so I think it was some amount of 145 million kuna last year. Can you tell the Croatian public what this amount is now? Furthermore, how much NATO membership costs means an exact, accurate amount. And we know that we were honored last year that in some ways we're spending too much on staff means too much on workers, and we're spending too little on equipment, so we changed it quickly, so I'm wondering how much we're spending on ourselves right now means employees, and in proportion to the equipment that we've obviously raised the amount multiple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79269	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79270	Excuse me, did you end up thinking about all the ministry employees in general as much as it turns out somewhere? About 43% means employees, in the overall system around 17,100 people turn out to be about 43% of the total budget. What you asked me now is that I don't have those exact figures, we can have the principal and the secretary-in-chief here, so we can look at it, but yesterday there was a debate as far as I'm aware of the budget there are all the items so very clearly elaborated and indicated and easily read, but there was no problem in the second part of that figure that we give you exactly. I need to take a look at the paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79271	Mr. Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79272	The esteemed chairman, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, state secretaries are therefore an important instrument of foreign and security policy and ensure that the national interests and external political objectives of the Republic of Croatia are met. However, we must also mention that there is an ongoing approach strategy for a document called the Strategic Compass which is in some way considering the formation of its own combat unit for emergency interventions and is sure to do so in some way, so I ask whether it is the formation of this through the Strategic Compass whether it will also be one way to strengthen foreign policy security and the Republic of Croatia, but also the whole EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79273	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79274	Your Honor, you've basically given the answer yourself. Of course it will be, but at this point, none of us can say exactly how it will look, exactly what will happen and how it will be, but in any case what is important here to stress that this European defence fund, the establishment of a European defence fund, and that in principle there can be multiple benefits from participation not only for the international role of Croatia and the protection of Croatia and the interests but also for our military industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79275	Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79276	There's a paradoxical thing going on. In the course of the defence minister's conflict and the president of the Republic, we receive 7 or 8 proposals for decisions, where on the last page, the presidents of the Republic agree on the basis of a decision or memo from the defence minister's cabinet. So, they've been able to agree on a few hundred soldiers, and I can't agree on a brigade which I think is completely pointless and for that, of course, I see guilt in the Secretary of Defense. I just hope, I was afraid when I saw a number of HDZ deputies reported in the proposal on this topic, which is not usually the subject, so I only hope that these soldiers will be properly paid for their daily living, and that even those who are not paid will be paid no more so that the state will no longer be disgraced in front of the soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79277	Would you like to comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79278	So I can, very briefly, therefore, all of these decisions have an exact procedure which the Honorable Representative Bauk knows very well and the normal thing is that this is also coming to the agreement of the President of the Republic. All those who are in the system and who carry out their tasks according to the laws of the Republic of Croatia will, of course, always respect all that the law determines.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79279	And finally Mrs. Mariana Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79280	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear state secretary with associates, among today's proposed decisions on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kosovo in certain operations, we have one exclusively humanitarian character, more specifically NATO operation in the Republic of Kosovo. At the same time, we know that the Croatian army lacks certain deficits of healthcare professionals more precisely. Can you please tell me that we are standing with such interests in the system of armed forces, or what it seems to be to attract just such personnel into the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79281	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79282	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You were referring to the medical staff. So, we fill our capacities regularly and these days we have had some contests and receptions, people still appear in the Croatian army for these occupations. And so far, we do not have any problems in the end, this is also shown at this time of the crown crisis and disaster and everything else that Croatian wax is always there to make its capacities of maximum help. And what I have mentioned in the opening statement, so we are sending to this mission according to these international agreements and.../incomprehensible/... a pediatrician who will help therefore only children of people coming from Afghanistan, people who helped our people at a time when Afghanistan looked different and we believe that it is absolutely necessary to support such activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79283	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, you have no more replicas. And now we're briefly interrupting the debate on this law and we're moving on to taking a stand. Let's go back to a set of Laws from the military area to call it that. Does the Committee’s rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. Mr. Franco Vidovic, chairman of the Defence Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79285	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues. The Defence Committee held a discussion at its 14th session held on 23 November 2021 on the Proposal for a Decision on the Cooperation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of the strengthened NATO's presence in the Republic of Poland. Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of the enhanced ahead presence in Lithuania, then the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "Sea Guardian" in the Mediterranean, the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Operation "Inherent Resolve", the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission to support peace "Nato Mission in Iraq", the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union in the operation "Eunavfor during irina", the Proposal for a decision to send members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to office in NATO, then the structure of forces and other national (Multi) command in operations and other activities abroad under NATO-led by NATO. The Committee shall be discussed in the decisions in question on the basis of Article 71. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The board held a united debate on that position... the proposals for decisions. In addition to any proposal from the Government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has delivered a decision on the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. At the meeting of the Committee, the proposer's representative briefly presented the basic characteristics of each individual decision. With regard to the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of the enhanced NATO presence in the Republic of Poland, it is stated that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been participating in the battle group in the Republic of Poland since 2017 where eight Croatian Contigent with 80 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is currently deployed. The objective decision proposes to continue participation in NATO's enhanced frontal presence in the US-led battle group with the possibility of sending up to 90 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Poland in 2022, with the current ability of a single multi-trail, multi-trail rocket launcher, and up to 90 members of the Armed Forces in 2023, with the new capacity of the Pancer Haubice 2000, with the possibility of rotation. As regards the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of the enhanced NATO front presence in the Republic of Lithuania, it is stated that the decision proposes the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the framework of a battle group led by the Federal Republic of Germany with the possibility of sending up to 200 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, a pedestrian motorised company in the Republic of Lithuania in 2023. Further to the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "Sea Guardian" in the Mediterranean, it was noted that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participated in the peace support operation during 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021, with a crew of 33 members of the Armed Forces and the Croatian Navy ship "Air top 42 Dubrovnik". By decision to support peace operations "Sea Guadrian" in the Mediterranean in 2022 and 2023, it proposes to refer up to 35 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia by boat of the Croatian Navy with the possibility of rotation. Regarding the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation of the "Inherent Resolve" coalition forces, it was pointed out that the intervention of coalition forces was led by the United States against the so-called "Inherent Resolve". Islamic states with the aim of eliminating the ISIS terrorist group and the threats it poses in Iraq and the region, Europe and the wider international community. The motion for a decision proposes to participate up to 3 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ‘Inherent Resolve’ coalition force under the leadership of the United States which can be deployed to Kuwait, Iraq during 2022 and 2023 with the possibility of rotation. As regards the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a mission to support peace, NATO should be told that the NATO mission in Iraq was established at the request of the Iraqi Government and in collaboration with the global coalition to fight ISIS. It is a non-combat mission aimed at strengthening the Iraqi security forces through the technical consultation of Iraqi officials, training and counselling of Iraqi instructors at military academys and institutions, civil military planning, maintenance of armored combat vehicles and military medicine. The proposal for a decision proposes to continue participation in the mission with the possibility of sending up to 10 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who can be deployed to Iraq during 2022 and 2023 with the possibility of rotation. Furthermore, regarding the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union's ‘Eunaufor Med Irini’ operation, it noted that the operation in the Mediterranean has been launched by the EU in March 2022. It aims to implement arms enbargs and establish peace and stability in Libya. The operation should contribute to the implementation of UN measures to prevent illegal oil exports from Libya and to build capacity and training of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy in preventing the development of a network for human trafficking and human trafficking. The proposed decision proposes to continue participation in the EUNAVFOR MED IRINI operation with the possibility of sending up to 3 members of the OSRH during 2022 and '23, with the possibility of rotation. With regard to the proposal for a decision to refer members of the OSCE to NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national and multinational commands, operations and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership, it is necessary to say that the Republic of Croatia as a member of NATO is obliged to participate in the work of the NATO joint bodies, primarily in the commands and headquarters. The members of the OSRH referred to such positions and duties may be referred to the area of operation or other activities for a period of up to one year during the term of office or, exceptionally and longer, for technical reasons or other circumstances which prevent their return. The decision proposes that up to 100 OSCE members on NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national and multinational commands, could in 2022 and '23. If necessary, the services shall be referred to operations and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership. In the debate, the Committee members supported the continuity of Croatia's participation in peacekeeping missions and operations because they bring multiple benefits. Every visit to the mission confirms the Republic of Croatia as a credible partner, brings political benefits, provides an opportunity for quality representation of Croatian military personnel while gaining valuable experience and training. As regards the implementation report, part of the members noted that it was more and more thin, modest and summary and that it was regularly submitted exclusively as part of the Annual Defence Report. It has been pointed out that more detailed reports should be provided to the Defence Committee with a view to better information and better quality decision-making, supported by concrete data providing a more comprehensive overview of their implementation. Following the debate, the Committee decided unanimously with 7 votes to propose to the HS to make those decisions. Furthermore, the Defence Committee held a debate at its 15th session held on 30 November 2021, on the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of ODRH members in NATO Operation ALLIED SOLACE in the Republic of Kosovo. The proposing representative stated that following the conclusion and joint declaration by the foreign ministers of NATO member states, the Alliance should fulfil obligations on the safe evacuation of allied citizens, citizens of partner states and citizens of Afghanistan, whose lives have been at stake for co-operation with the Alliance over the past 20 years. Implementation of the safe evacuation of Afghanistan's citizens in a temporary location until a permanent move to one of the NATO member states is provided by NATO military authorities. ... In Kosovo, one of the two European temporary accommodation sites is evacuated, and is equipped with the necessary infrastructure to accommodate about 800 hundred people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The objective decision proposes the participation of ODRH members in the operation in R. Kosovo, with up to 3 members who can be deployed there during 2021 and between 2022 and 6 months. I'm stressing that this operation is, first of all, humanitarian character. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided with 8 votes to propose to HS to decide on the participation of OSRH members in NATO's Allied SOLACE operation in R. Kosovo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79286	Thank you very much, before we move on to the debate, I would just like to say that after the debate on this point, we will have a statement on the amendment to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure submitted by MP Katarina Peović, just so we know. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, yeah. There's only one. As far as it's concerned, we'll discuss it so much. Uh, here it is. We would now move on, as I said, to the debate and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta will speak to the honourable representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79287	I would like to point out in preliminary terms that the Croatian Army is one of the few institutions in which citizens have high confidence and that Croatian officers and soldiers in missions abroad have raised the reputation of the Republic, unlike some politicians we see being persecuted today by OLAF and the European Public Prosecutor. So full support to the Croatian army in every way. The other thing that's important to say in a preliminary manner is that as members of some clubs, we also have some membership obligations. So, of course, as a member of the NATO Pact, we'll send our people on some peace missions. However, we are not obliged to send them everywhere and send them without explanation. The countries, in that sense, approach differently. Slovenia, for example, has increased the number of its people in Kosovo, concentrated more there, apparently from an estimate that there are more of its interests both geostrategic and economic than in Syria or Poland, so it has made sense of its quota, sending more people somewhere. I have the impression from all of this that we are completely uncritical and without any explanation sending people on all kinds of missions. The first problem is we're not discussing this separately. It has nothing to do with this action led by the EU around Libya that prevents the import of weapons and oil exports with NATO missions. So I don't understand why we're discussing it together right now. The second is completely different geostrategic and second context of what is happening in Lithuania and Poland and this patching now happening in Iraq or patrolling the Mediterranean. So if we wanted to seriously approach the decision to send our troops on a mission we had to discuss this separately, but what's there. Then, as I have already said in the replica, it is scandalous that we have not received any explanation, and this should have been provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in my opinion an explanation of the geopolitical context of every country we send our people to. What's that about? We don't have a risk assessment, which is a high-risk situation. What are our interests? What are our interests now for sending people to Poland, Lithuania, and which to Iraq, which to patrol around Libya or military base to be in Kosovo? What are our geostrategic interests, political and economic? Let's say the economic dimension is not mentioned here at all. Have we ever asked a question in all these great missions and whether a Croatian entrepreneur could have done part of the job there? Where is the army and military camp supposed to wash the laundry, someone needs to get a haircut, provide some other services? Was there any work for ours? Have we ever considered that here we are and profiting from something economically in this whole story? I'm not saying this is me. We've been given the opinion of the Defense Committee, and I quote. As regards the implementation of the same part of the members, he noted that it is more and more thin, modest and summary and that it is regularly submitted exclusively within the framework of the annual defence report. It has been pointed out that more detailed reports should be provided to the Defence Committee with a view to better information and better quality decision-making, supported by concrete data providing a more comprehensive overview of their implementation. I'd like colleagues first of all from the opposition that are members of the board to refer more specifically to this later in their speeches. Everyone voted yes, but this is a very serious remark. I as a parliamentary representative who needs to raise my hand here to send our people on missions some of which may potentially be very serious I want to have an explanation of the context. Where we send them, what's the risk there, what's our interest. And not like this to push it all up your ass like that, here's seven points, there's some missions, we raise our hand, we go to lunch. That's extremely unserious. But let's get this straight. Poland, Poland, Lithuania, the proposer's representative reminded us of these materials that the 2016 summit was taught by the Member State of the alliance that they had decided in two basic directions. Two basic directions. The first is to further strengthen collective deterrence and defence through strengthening the eastern presence of the alliance. It means hoarding power to translate there towards Russia. The second element of projecting stability beyond the borders of the alliance by building the institutional and security architecture of partner countries. This translated into a normal rational language means involvement, the political dimension of NATO's pact's action in countries outside NATO's pact by creating there itself desirable political circumstances. Some of this we felt about will likely be in an individual speech on BiH where President Milanovic had to veto the NATO summit declaration to mention at the end of the unconstitutional peoples, which is a constitutional category than the Dayton Peace Agreement. And we're going to talk a little bit about who's tearing down Dayton is causing a dangerous situation in BiH. The strengthening of this upcoming presence began in 2017 and was carried out by the deployment of 4 Allied troops in the east of NATO through what they say is a strengthened frontal presence in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. Now, as far as Poland is concerned, our forces there have been participating since 2017 with 80 members, this proposal is expected to declare what we are expected to do without explanation and risk, and which is our interest and broader geostrategic context, we decide to send 90 members of the Armed Forces to Poland in 2022 with a multi-pipe rocket launcher, and one year later to 90 days later with the essence of Panzer Hubici 2000 with the possibility of rotation. If we look at this critter, the insufficient and shallow assessment of the condition we've been given so far, that's what it says. With the emergence of new security challenges, here's this Brussels-based new speech that I've already looked back on, all the challenges, the chelangs, it's idiotizing the Croatian language, killing every thought and purpose, challenges. No more trouble, no more threats, no more challenges. Translated, it says a security challenge here read Russia, Russia ok, not a challenge, a challenging cleavage can be or don't know what, Russia, Russia, Russia and by strengthening instability in the immediate environment of NATO from now on watch out for this, asymmetric conflicts to hybrid terrorist threats. What are asymmetric conflicts, what are hybrid threats? Member States have agreed on the need to strengthen border protection and collective security and defence of NATO members. Read the east front, potential east front. So, we send 90 people to Poland, and under the direction of the SR of Germany to 200 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, we send them to Lithuania until 2023. So almost 300 of our people on the potential of the eastern front, which is not little for a small country with a population and an army which Croatia 300 people are not little. The third Sea Guardian in the Mediterranean would employ up to 35 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Navy. They'd be patrolling something in the Mediterranean, intercepting some ships, protecting our safety. But we don't need to sail down Libya, we need to make things a little stronger towards Bihac. People in Bihaćko region face serious problems and the security issue of migrants who are illegally crossing Croatia. Instead of wasting our time and resources on the Mediterranean's troubles, let's hear a little bit of what's going on right under our noses. 4th mission, Inherent Resolve operation. It's an intervention of coalition forces led by the United States against the so-called Islamic states including a campaign in Iraq and Syria. It says the purpose of the ISIS terrorist group's elimination operation and the threat that ISIS poses not only in Iraq and the region, but also in Europe as well as in the wider international community. The operation says it is currently in phase four and implementation, in 2020 it experienced changes. In line with the new approach to support operations and the fight against ISIL forces since July 2020, coalition specialised mentor teams have provided support to Iraqi security forces in the fields of surveillance of operations, logistics and intelligence. Three of ours are being sent there. We did a similar thing in Afghanistan. Did we get as the Croatian Parliament who approved the sending of our people to Afghanistan, spending and resources and risking the lives of our people, thank God there were no more difficult problems, did we finally get an explanation of the epilogue in Afghanistan. Where you've been, what you've done nothing. The Taliban again, and they control it more than before the intervention. Why did our people waste time and energy in Afghanistan? No, but is it normal for us to get a report in HS as well? And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defense. And now we're asked to keep doing the same thing in Iraq. Which can convince us that the epilogue won't be the same in Iraq for a year, two as it was in Afghanistan. Where you've been, what you've done nothing. Well then there's the fifth mission, there's building stability for Iraq by strengthening the capabilities of Iraqi institutions and security forces, and then there's long-term stabilisation and security, etc. etc. That's where we send 10 people. It's this other thing in Iraq. So a total of 13 in Iraq. The sixth, most suspicious is Eunaufor Med Irini, it has nothing to do with NATO but, it is the European Operation on the Mediterranean, around Libya, the goal of Operation Irina is to carry out the arms embargo on Libya using air, satellite and maritime resources. The embargo against who. Can we get information and explain what's going on in Libya? Which is where Libya fell apart, who's fighting there, who's gonna get hit by the embargo. Well, we're not the suckers to think of the arms embargo, so that's great. There's gonna be peace. We've been through this experience where there was an arms embargo for Yugoslavia, these fully armed, have a military industry we bare-handed. So to whom we introduce the embargo, to whom this prevention of oil smuggling refers. We don't have any information but we're expected to raise our hands and send a few people there. We have no objections to the seventh thing, it refers to duties in NATO's command structure up to 80 members, we're part of NATO, we're being followed by relatively some places, that's fine. Like this last item, a mission in Kosovo, where we have this difficult humanitarian problem, which is 120,000 people from Afghanistan that NATO has evacuated, these were NATO associates, and our forces there and their families, 800 of which are in the Bechtel camp in Kosovo, these people need to be helped, make life easier, we hear that we are sending one pediatrician and probably two more medical workers, that's fine. So, why, apart from Kosovo and this NATO officials in the NATO command, we cannot vote for this, but we will be restrained. Because we needed to give it up again, more detailed information about the geopolitical context and the level of risk where we send our people. And what's left. So explain the strategic interests. Where are our interests? In all these actions we are not involved in strategic decisions but at the tactical level of our unit are doing something petty. And we don't know what the strategic goals are. Even at the operational level, we're not in the sense of preparing the operation. We can't, of course, be a big member of NATO who will come up with a strategy, but at least we can be informed of what is being done and what is expected before we raise our hand to send our people. So we're leaving folklore for work and we're not asking. What we got, what projects, what investments, did in these strategic relations with our partners get us something for ourselves? We managed to valorize the Croatian geographical space. Strengthen competitiveness on the European market. The axis of our Danube, the Mediterranean, is we discussing anything with our strategic partners about it. No soldier can go anywhere without anyone explaining why, what and what is the level of risk. Let's take Lithuania and Poland. I repeat, 300 people are not small. From the Croatian perspective. A build-up of strength as a deterrent strategy sounds nice, but what if the situation escalates. What level of risk is there. You can't see it. Are we going to war with Russia in case of escalation? All NATO members from the EU are now participating in Poland and Lithuania. Over there on the east front. If there are Slovenians there, here I don't know, I'm asking if I've noticed before that they're choosing where they're going, where they're going to send people. Is Belgium there, are Dutch soldiers there. Whose are and whose aren't and why some are not on the east front. I repeat once again, what we have here is geostrategic, political, economic interest, why we're going there. In the future, we need to get this detailed information before we raise our hand to send our people anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79288	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats and the respected representative Franco Vidovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79289	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues. Well, here's what I have to say. A colleague of the Rasdic who's leaving right now has asked some good questions. And solid questions. You've asked questions that we've asked several times, and I as a member of the Social Democrats Club, so when it comes to international missions, it's not a question of whether or not we're going to participate in them, clearly that we're going to participate, we have obligations that we've made to international contracts, we have ultimately, obligations to allies, we want to be integrated into the international community and ultimately, there's one human goal, which is that we want to be in some way a guarantee of peace, freedom, stability, and democracy in the parts of the world that still have no human power to bring it out. And what is certain, Croatia has participated many times since '99. Sir, but she was involved in peace-support missions, so these missions were always marked by a humanitarian character. We were training soldiers, forming armies, police, helping with humanitarian tasks, etc., in combat missions, thank God, no matter how they were perceived, we weren't involved, I mean, that's at least my position, that we shouldn't participate in the future, unless something, I don't know what doesn't change. What bothers me is that the Parliament is as a collectively elected body, in principle, minorized in such decisions, and completely unminorized. So, we can't get any geopolitical study, a strategy that's doing something, so if we had a wider context so we could look at it so maybe, in some story in Poland, we shouldn't have sent 90 or 2 hundred soldiers, we might have sent 5 hundred. Maybe we'd only send 30. This way we're doomed to the veritable data, and from that data, we can't tell what God knows. We can do what's called gentlemen's, hands up, but we raise our hands for someone else's sons. That's how it ends. Although I think, I say, it is useful for the Croatian Army to gain such experience, to integrate, to be a part of the international community, but ultimately it comes down to this. Without enough information in principle, we raise our hands. What bothers me and as chairman of the Defence Committee, I was also speaking to the Defence Committee, which is, after all, a report. Reports are contained in the Annual report on the OSRH, but I think that each of the international missions deserves its own report in which it will be clearly explained what we were doing there, with how much... We participated there, which were problems because there were also problems during these missions and ultimately, which we achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's some kind of minimum with that technical data, whether it was, don't give God, the wounded, whether they were hurt, etc. These are all data to which, in principle, the average representative in HS, and I stress our constitutional duty is to decide on the crossing of the Croatian army across the border. The average Croatian representative, either on the left, or on the right, insignificant, cannot obtain that data. I don't know what that's about either. Otherwise, customs in the Western world, at least as much as I am directed to discuss international military missions in parliament, but not as we are now discussing data, but being discussed on the basis of the credible data that parliamentarians receive because it knows exactly what it is and why they engage in a mission. But I'm saying, all of my complaints generally go to the expense of the executive and the way he behaves, so they don't think I'm just criticizing HDZ's current executive power, so that's the habit of '99. That's the way it's done. But in the last 30 years, a little world has changed. There's been a change in circumstances, there's been some things happening in the world, there's been a threat of terrorism, there's been an increase in cyber crime, cyber terrorism, a lot of things have changed in general in the world, and we're still acting in our reports like it's, and I don't know, at the end of the '80s, not the '90s. So it's really my serious grudge, and I had a situation when I asked for reports as chairman of the Defence Committee, I got them classified. There's nothing I can do about it. I read and forget. You don't even read the best. So, the Republic of Croatia started participating in peace support operations in September '99. when she first referred her representatives to one of the UN peacekeeping missions. We're talking about 10 unarmed military observers as part of the Sierra Leone mission. This has led the Republic of Croatia to become a provider of UN peacekeeping personnel, including in a round of states that have contributed to the preservation of global peace and security within the UN for more than 6 decades. So it was some kind of break-in moment for the Republic of Croatia and for the OSRH. We all remember that more or less, not for the good, but we remember all UNCRO, UNPROFOR and Croatia, etc., but at some point in '92. And as the defender of that time, I remember that they did bring some stability, and I'm not going to say a truce because it didn't even see that truce, but some kind of silence on the battlefield, for sure. They made it possible for Croatia to consolidate at that time and go more seriously into liberating its territory which we eventually welcomed in '95. the years completely. From then to '99. It's only been four years. In four years, our army has been ready to participate in international missions that say we have the capacity, that we have knowledge, that we have the skills and that we can do a lot of things, but let's not fall for things when we need to advertise in principle with these same abilities, when we need to advertise our army with their participation in international missions, let's not fall on it, let's not classify those data, let the public see, let the representatives talk about it, why not. Over the years, Croatia has increased its participation in peace support operations, with more than 20 years of continued participation in peace support operations under the auspices of the UN, NATO, leading operations and EU operations. Participation in international missions is in line with the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia, which places Croatia among the responsible members of the international community who is ready to take over part of the burden in the construction and preservation of international security. Croatia participates in international missions and operations in accordance with the values and interests it shares with other members. But we still don't know what interests these are. We do not know in the assembly what our interest is to participate, nor do I, as chairman of the Defence Committee, know what our interest is in participating in the operation in Iraq. In other words, if we're going to think a little bit deeper not so long ago, we practically retired from Afghanistan a few months ago, and we retreated, maybe it's too hard to say, but basically overnight by the way. We weren't informed of the forces, we weren't informed until today why we retreated. We all know why we retired, but we didn't get an official report on it. We don't even know today why the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia moved to Kuwait at one point, and then after that, I don't know part of it, I think back to Iraq, part of it came back to the homeland. By engaging in operations, peacekeeping support missions and other NATO activities, Croatia reaffirms its commitment to principles and common values, preparedness for participation in the common defence system and what is more important an active contribution to peace and stability. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia also participate in the coalition forces operation with the intention of meeting the goal of contributing to the creation of a long-term stable security environment, strengthening the rule of law and security. Furthermore, the Armed Forces continue to participate in UN peacekeeping support operations which remain a guarantee of international peace and security because of the comprehensive framework for multilateral co-operation in crisis management. Here's one thing, for example. where I would disagree, although my intention is not to skew, the man is gone and I don't think, I don't take it as a polemic, but I would disagree that our problem is Bihac, her is our problem Bihac. Bihac is the problem of the Republic of BiH. Our problem is the source and therefore we participate in the action of EUNAVFOR MED IRINI because the source of the problem is exactly, it is these countries that are located in Africa, which are located here in the Middle East, we all know where migrants come from, and we also know that the problem is best to solve at the beginning. So, I think we certainly belong in that operation, and even more serious involvement in that operation, as much as this humanitarian operation is. When we talk about the arms embargo in Libya, it's basically a civil conflict, there's no one on the side who's fighting, it's not a situation, and I wouldn't even it out with the situation in Croatia where we had an organized army of one state that attacked the Republic of Croatia. That one country was then called SFRY. So, with all these objections that generally apply to the executive power, we at the Social Democrats Club are pleased by continuing the existing contribution of the Armed Forces. The Republic of Croatia actively participates in ensuring peace and stability, contributing to the development and ability to manage crises, contributing to ensuring living conditions where they are threatened, contributing to strengthening collective security and defence. In this way, you increase your reputation in the international community, and when you increase your reputation, you also increase influence. As a result, the Social Democrats Club will support the adoption of these decisions on international missions and we believe that making the decisions in question will have a positive effect on the further development of the armed forces and we are also in favour of making them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79290	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the respected representative Katarina Peovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79291	Good afternoon, everyone. So here's what I have to say is that I'm glad that there's been a debate in this direction because I was convinced that I would be lonely in that attitude that the united debate itself shows the autocolonial character of our government and the autocolonial character of our thinking towards NATO missions. So there's no need to argue at all, we're in the NATO Alliance, it's clear that we're going to send our soldiers, it's not at all a question of where, as much as it means we're sending our army, there's no conversation at all, and there's no discussion there, and every cause of criticism is declared either by some utopia or by some unreal demand for autonomous, independent and courageous policies, policies that go in favour of that social majority. So we here should represent our social majority, the working majority, and that seems to me something that is obviously not that simple and easy at all, and every form of such an act is mostly rejected. Now, I'm glad that somehow in this discussion of the budget I've shown myself thinking from my perspective that yet this type of criticism has caught a little bit of root in the opposition and I wasn't really lonely in that criticism that we don't need in the Coronal Year buying 12 French second hand planes that actually, what are we doing, which is our goal of buying these 12 planes in the Coronal year? So do we have to fight the virus or do we have to fight some imaginary enemies? It is quite clear that the wars will not be, that we do not have anyone to defend ourselves, but we are buying planes and that should be said openly for the green light to enter the scechengen which is a question of whether we will get from France, but in any case in all these situations we are leading a very questionable autocolonial policy and now which is our interest I do not know in some Poland, Lithuania in Operation Sea Guardian in the Mediterranean and the Operation of the Coalition Force Inherent Resolution, NATO Mission in Iraq, should we be in Iraq, in the EU operation, but also in other activities abroad under NATO or operation in Kosovo, I mean whether we should be present and how much and how much. But when it is said that we want to be also a factor in peace and stability, I think it should really be questioned whether we were a factor of peace and stability in Afghanistan by agreeing to American imperialism where 241,000 people died in that peace mission and other failed collapses in the regimes of various regimes in which we participated. So the speech at all on this subject is somehow determined by this character, so criticism towards those who question it as a utopia and an unreal position of the car, which is against the meaning of this autocolonialism and who wants to lead an independent policy. But yesterday we can really say that we got a message about what this government thinks of the HDZ budget and that we got a clear message that there is no, no money for the crown, no money for the pensioners, no money for better salaries, no money for new jobs, no money for all the young people who move out, but we have money for the defense, we have money for the defense. I'll remind you, I don't have any new information, so I asked the Secretary of State to give me that information because I'm interested in what's been spent this year, or what's the amount, but I'm going to give you the data I collected last year. So for every soldier in Afghanistan just until 2010. It's spent about half a million kuna. In the framework of NATO for more than a decade, we have participated in the occupation of Afghanistan in so-called ". A peace mission, which we paid 55 million kuna a year. Three years ago, we spent only on 110 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in Operation Resolution support of 55 million kuna and another 33 million kuna to quote "enhance NATO's presence in Poland". We paid 24 million kuna for the mission in Kosovo, and in 2019. We join the new mission in Iraq that costs 4.3 million kuna to three members watch out for the EU's Armed Forces Sofia costs about 2 million kuna a year, EU NAFvor Somalia-Atalanta 4.5 million kuna. So the total year spent somewhere last year I think I got that amount right, and I'm really interested in what the amount is this year. Last year, around 145 million kuna was spent on NATO missions alone and what we received from NATO as a particular pack means a certain criticism that we spend too little on equipment, means we spend too much on people. And now that's what increased the budget for the weapons equipment, and at the same time I say, I think the question is whether we needed it. If we had to choose, we'd choose people or we'd definitely choose weapons before people. But among the 28 NATO members, Croatia was with 1.7% of GDP in the 10th place last year after the singles, and in front of its neighbours it was in the people's investment, but far below investment in equipment. Now we have new investments in French planes, but other equipment has reached 2.7%, and now this data is very important, so 2.7% of the defense share in GDP, let's say the German budget of 2020. Had 1.23% of GDP. Croatia ranks third among the 28 members of the Alliance according to NATO's latest data in these defence gaps. We pay NATO membership a year or so, is that now the same figure that you would like for this year, but it's usually 31 million kuna a year. And what was set up for us as a recommendation is that all members aim to minimum 2% of the budget each year, all members in the future, but until '24. They start detaching for defense. And now Croatia has significantly increased its resources, to say it and further without debate, so this has been put forward as a recommendation for us to reach 2% of GDP, not as a commitment. Yesterday I was at "Open" with my colleague Pavic, not here, but I mean he lied to my face when he told me that I was lying and that it wasn't true that we had those over 2 million, 2 billion kunas that we could spend on something else in the budget, and we spent it on defense. Why did he lie? Because it wasn't an obligation, so it wasn't an obligation. It's a recommendation and it only means until 2024. So much is really important to say that only 11 members achieved that amount of GDP last year, so that's, that's a recommendation, it wasn't, it really wasn't a need. And now we're with this separation with some other means of separation, there's both these helicopters and other equipment. We've really come to almost 3% of the defense GDP. The active army was spent somewhere around 5 billion kunas a year, now it's up to 7 billion kuna, and I say we've been in the last place by equipment consumption, but we've changed that. What was additionally problematic when we entered NATO alliance one of the main arguments was that we had our own army we would spend about 3% of GDP on that army and it was taken as a reference amount which is so much that we don't have the arguments not to enter NATO, so it's just convenient for us too. Now here we stand out almost three percent, and now you can't hear those arguments about why we joined NATO, which doesn't need to be cheaper, right? We have certainly entered the alliance without a referendum, some EU members are not in that NATO alliance, Austria, Switzerland, Ireland, Sweden, Ireland. NATO membership, but we hear it here all the time not only from the ruling that it is useful because we are safer with this membership. I mean, I really never, ever think I'll forget in my life that tragic military pass by Milanovic's government in 2015 when the asphalt in Vukovar was destroyed by caterpillar tanks, really some episodes, and that advertising and our equipment were very tragic. So, what I'm saying is, NATO membership was justified in this way, and then these amounts were mentioned, but we are not critical, of course, just from that aspect of consumption or just from that aspect of how much it costs to NATO membership. I mean, and when we talk about some security it usually means that, that's security, so we've secured our country, and then, of course, after that, there's an investment going on, and all of this is secured with that NATO membership, but it's not mentioned that we're actually NATO membership open to terrorist attacks. The terrorist attack means in the river of 1995. He was just being motivated by us being in NATO. I mean, it doesn't have to be a decisive factor, but it should be said as a fact. So 1995. The first Islamic blow to European soil means that Croatia has handed over a prominent Egyptian Sunist movement member to the United States. So we're still and people need to say it, I mean we're not safer, in some things we might be safer in some we're not. Croatia for what is said to be a common table, and this debate has shown here that there is no real right to vote. So it's an obedient policy that is being implemented in our foreign policy and that policy created by our ruling and fully followed by stronger than we are. And finally, let me say, in short, if we have to compare, we used to, we used to spend unsettled, we die for other people's interests today. I think it's some kind of lesson that we could learn not only from the structure of this debate but from the funds that we're giving to NATO this year, the funds that we're giving for, for the weapons and character of politics that aren't just that of course in the field of defence, but also in the field of economics, it's also in the field of our geopolitical relationship to, to large ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79292	The next HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative Ante Deur, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79293	Here's the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here is the decision-making of HS for the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in international missions, operations and other activities in the period from '22-'23. The Republic of Croatia is certainly responsible as a member of the international community, in accordance with its capabilities, for actively contributing to international security in dealing with crises peacefully. Participation in operations, missions and other activities forms part of the international community's efforts to preserve peace and prevent conflict, and it is an important instrument for the Republic of Croatia's foreign security policy to ensure that our national interests and external political priorities are met. In addition, Croatia further develops capabilities through participation in operations, missions and activities and achieves the strength of armed forces with allies. Contribution to missions and operations and activities is an important part of meeting our obligations as members of NATO, the UN and the EU. Such participations also within NATO are one of three pillars of burden distribution between allies with adequate separations for defence, modernisation of the armed forces, and with the achievement of the defined objectives and capabilities of members. The EU is also taking on an increasingly significant role and responsibility for European security. One of the most important instruments of common security and foreign policy in the EU of missions and operations to which Croatia contributes according to its capabilities. In addition to NATO and the EU, Croatia has contributed to international security and the preservation of peace and its engagements in UN peacekeeping support operations since September 1999. Finally, participation in international missions and operations and other activities is one of three basic armed forces missions and it is true that since '99. To date, a total of around 9,732 members of the armed forces are participating. At this point in October 2021. Croatia participates in nine international missions, operations, activities of 245 members. Taking into account the foreign policy priorities identified by the needs and areas of individual missions, operations and activities, and in order to contribute to international security, the roles of responsible and credible UN members of the UN are retained, the EU and NATO are proposed by adopting HS decisions to engage armed forces in 2022. until 2023. These are NATO activities being part of a wider NATO arrangement aimed at deterring the state of defence against aggression, demonstrating NATO's determination to defend endangered allies. The activities are one of the most correct decisions of the Allied solidarity of the unity of the Alliance members. In the battle group in Poland with the United States as the leading country in 2017 A total of 635 members of the armed forces participated. Surely in this combat activity with all the participation that Croatia will take part in with the ability and self-driving multi-pipe rocket launchers Vulcan,... haubica 2000, with the possibility of rotation. A total of 382 members of the armed forces take part in the battle group in Lithuania with the leading countries of Germany on two occasions in 2017-2020. In all these NATO missions in Iraq and all these listed coalition forces and peace support operations, Sea Guardian has significant establishment and maritime security with the aim of cooperation in Mediterranean countries to maintain awareness and the current maritime situation, to maintain terrorism control and to build defence facilities. The participation in the operation improves the capabilities of the Croatian Navy with the performance of the task and increases the operational performance of the operations is launched in 2016. Croatia has so far participated on five occasions, twice by boat of the HRM Vukovar and three times by ship of the HRM... Dubrovnik. During the four years of one 2018, 2019, 2020 and twice in '21 A total of 164 members of the Navy participated in the operation. Here is through all the operations and missions that the Croatian military certainly has with its ability, along with all the foreign policy activities that we have been given to Croatia, with full confidence that the Croatian military with all its elements shows as members of NATO and the EU with security problems and all the challenges that are being put to the Croatian state, it is certain that these missions that are primarily humanitarian, but we are all aware of what brings the departure of our soldiers, but one security, training, the experience that gives us one confidence that Croatia has shown today throughout the years that it is truly a true partner, a strong partner to be trusted. And I think HS should support and give full confidence to all these missions that we've been given in confidence. First of all, we know for sure what the Croatian state was going through in the 1990s, and it is certain that something like that, that we were in a position not to have a Vukovar, Srebrenica aware that much would not have happened. I can fully understand colleagues in the opposition and all together, regardless of the position or opposition we are in within the Parliament, aware that this is a great challenge for the Croatian army with its experience and through the Homeland War and anything that happens can make a great contribution within NATO. We are aware that all of us who have passed in these areas of Croatia, BiH and Kosovo within the strong Serbian aggression have not been able to save thousands of lives of civilians who are at that time as a great force, today we can proudly say that the Croatian army is indeed a force recognised, to whom trust is given, but above all that has the full power of trust of its people and with all the expertise that our officers and soldiers and soldiers have through the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces have. And surely through all of this today we can be truly through all of these operations that are both secretary of state and which are all listed as essential and powerful that the Croatian military becomes a serious force within the system and that we can be, we can really say that something that is truly full of trust is not only that, that it can be prevented, that all threats that Europe is at present can be identified. The Croatian state is a great participant and once again here is great support and I think that HS really needs to give full confidence, empower these young people and all the strength that goes to meet all the challenges that we face, but today, after these last 20 years, we have been able to say that HV participates in serious challenges in which in the 1990s we couldn't be a shareholder where we were in a serious, serious situation of life, today not full of 30. We can say that the HV is a recognised and strong force, a recognizable partner within NATO and the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79294	The next Club representative will be that green-left block, and will speak the esteemed representative Urša Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79295	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. Today we are discussing a series of peacekeeping missions in which the Republic of Croatia will be active in 2022. Yesterday, we discussed a proposal for a budget of the Republic of Croatia, which shows that we will spend around 128 million kuna on peacekeeping missions next year, with about 95% being spent on NATO missions, 3.5% on EU missions and only 1.5% on UN missions. Of course, there is an immediately visible big imbalance in relation to NATO, so first of all we have to ask the question of how this direction of favouring an international organisation reflects the fact that we have recently signed a strategic agreement in collaboration with the Republic of France which clearly advocates stronger participation of EU members. And why have we somehow turned our backs on the UN for years? We are aware that the UN has lost its peace potential, but we must not forget that it is still one, the only, in fact, international platform in charge of building peace that brings together almost all countries in the world and as such remains an important space for establishing agreements. But let's get back to the mission. We look at them in the Green Left Block Club through four geographical categories. The first mission "SEA GUARDIAN" and "IRINI" is active in the Mediterranean, then missions related to the Middle East, Iraq "INHERENT RESOLVE" and third mission active along the eastern EU border, so in Poland and Lithuania and the fourth mission in the Balkans, Kosovo. As for activities in the Mediterranean, we have expressed concern about these missions already in our previous presentations since they take place on the Mediterranean Sea, which is one of the main migrant routes, and we are all familiar with the numerous tragedies of drowning people in the Mediterranean Sea in search of a better life, even though we know that "SEA GUARDIAN" has nothing to do with migration, yet it is expected that our ship will sooner or later encounter some rubber-filled people floating somewhere between Africa and Europe and therefore, respected secretary of state, please inform us whether our crew has already been in such situations and which is the official procedure of our soldiers' behaviour in such situations. Unlike "SEA GUARDIANA", "IRIN" is a much more problematic mission from our perspective. We remember that it was created as a kind of continuation of the SOFIA mission, which for its primary purpose had a search and rescue in the Mediterranean Sea and which indeed saved many lives. Unfortunately, it has also led to deep divisions in the EU, especially at a time when some members were no longer willing to admit migrants and refugees to their ports. This is how the "IRINI" mission was created to monitor the arms embargo imposed on Libya by the UN, but through this mission, close EU co-operation with the Libyan coast guard has also been established, and this is where we come to the most sensitive part of this mission. These are seriously documented charges of human rights violations by the Libyan guard, especially against migrants and refugees. They've been documented shooting people, not giving up calls to help, as well as deteating people in completely inappropriate prisons where some are exposed to torture. In particular, scary reports are also about the kind of establishment of slave relations in Libya. We understand that sometimes we also need to work with those who do not meet EU standards of government and human rights, but that cooperation must not result in further restrictions on human rights. Since the mission "IRINI" did not receive the mandate of search and rescue, it should in no way interfere with EU citizens who have self-initiatedly embarked on that kind of mission. Sometimes when official institutions cannot act for political reasons, responsibility is assumed by self-organised citizens. We'll remember here the German Captain of the ship Carolae Rocket who carried out the search and rescue mission with Sea-watch 3 was arrested, but eventually released. Citizens' search and rescue missions remain often illegally criminalised and disrupted. It remains unclear to what extent the "IRINI" mission is involved. And finally, if we are already involved in this mission that has focus on Libya, why are we not in Libya more strongly present with development projects or with international development cooperation? How visible is the report on the international development cooperation implemented for 2020. in Libya, we were only present with student scholarships of only 100.000 kuna. And here we come to our key criticism of the policies of the peace missions of the Republic of Croatia, which is that they are not monitored by development cooperation. We believe that the wrong direction is dominant through a military component to deal with a country and at the same time not to give it resources and development cooperation. Why are we not present in Libya through the experience of our post-conflict transition, the establishment of the rule of law on the processing of war crimes, working with war veterans would help Libya, but we are not there at all. In that sense, we proposed an amendment yesterday to the budget asking for an increase in funding for bilateral projects of international development cooperation, and once again we call on the government from this place to accept the amendment. We're moving from the Mediterranean to the Middle East. Talking about these missions is almost impossible unless the evaluation of the mission in Afghanistan is taken into account and the symbolic defeat experienced by the Allied forces in the country. Although there are important differences between Iraq and Afghanistan, we fear that the approach to training and training of local forces in Iraq does not end as poorly as in Afghanistan. Here we must remember once again how the destabilising of Afghanistan and Iraq took place 20 years ago when a terrorist attack was answered by a military invasion in the case of Iraq even based on false data. Fortunately, our country did not participate in the action at the time, but we have yet to learn from it that the fight against terrorism is not being resolved by military means. There is no doubt that the Iraqi Armed Forces need expert assistance, but we will still ask the question here where and how the Republic of Iraq is present for development. According to the 2020 Development Co-operation Report, Not at all. At the same time, the testimony of the people of Iraq has been recorded, without even talking about Afghanistan, who experienced both violence and pushback at our borders, and that is a policy of double standards that we cannot agree to. But more importantly, as the Green-Left Block Club, we think it's wrong in some country to be present only military, not developmental. Finally, we will look back only on three other NATO missions in Poland, Lithuania and Kosovo. In Lithuania and Poland, we see their role in stabilising or establishing better balances between the opposing parties, especially at times when we see that the Belarusian regime abuses people in distress and manipulates human fates with the condemnation of such behaviour by the Belarusian president, we hold that NATO forces must not be contaminated by engagement around pushback migrants and refugees on that border. And as for Kosovo, we are much more present and with development cooperation, although we have primarily directed it to the Croats in Kosovo alone, which is a special problem, but we will discuss this in another debate and we must show satisfaction because the criteria of our club are satisfied to be actively present and through a military mission in this developmental way. Finally, we must express our regret that the MORH has given up the submission of separate reports for each of the peacekeeping missions, there are those who would be happy and interested to read it, this will certainly be much less content since it will be integrated into the annual defence reports. In this regard, we will conclude that you do change your mind and that in 2022 you will provide us with separate reports on individual missions in which we will participate or are already participating. For the end, regardless of the diversity of views on individual missions, we want to wish happiness, but we also expect them to be good with both the human face and the responsibility of all members of the armed forces who will participate in various international military missions in 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79296	Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative of Ante Prkacin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79297	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the Department of Defense, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to one very important topic: a rather uninteresting debate, and I'm afraid I won't be much more interesting myself. First I look back at my colleague Rauhar, she asked for 15 minutes, five minutes left. We could all fit in in 10 minutes and it didn't take us a second longer for this debate. Since the situation is the way it is, as a serious man, I will look first at the report itself, and then on a few of the four, five MPs who spoke before me, and we're starting with my colleague Raspadic, I'm not even taking care of the fact that he can't replicate during the club's speaking on behalf of the club wanted to replicate, but I was warned he wasn't going to do it, so let me tell you what I wanted to tell you and what I wanted to ask him about. Well, it's a clear intensity of Rasputic's speech, potentiating on several occasions, even in the replica before 300 soldiers in so-called. A front presence in Poland and Lithuania, and a very small number of soldiers in other places. So when I debated almost a year ago on a report from the same ministry about a state of defence that was much more serious.../incomprehensible/... I stuck to that front presence and grabbed my head when I realized what that forward presence was. It is your strengthening of NATO's potential for power around Russia or surrounding Russia. So then I said, I didn't speak for the club but for my own sake, my late grandfather with his 9 cousins and friends went to Russia in the first war. He was in the late '915, early '916, and thank God except for the two of them, they all came back, but my uncle went back in '41. With the same 15 people, no one came back, went to Russia. Throughout history Russia has never been and the Russians have never sinned against Croats, according to Serbs, I would like to have Mr. Defence here he's a doctor. I don't know what his doctorate has to do with geography and history because thinking and discussing the way of defense, not knowing the historical and having a geographical map, doesn't turn out to be accusing a man but I wanted to check it out. Do not have a geographical map and some historical facts in front of you that is unserious if we are a full NATO member. Well, we had to warn someone there that very serious things were happening in our neighborhood. In Montenegro, it is more important than in BiH. Well then you should look at the geographical map and see what Montenegro looks like, how BiH, especially the part called Republika Srpska, see Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik's hinterland, and then discuss what we're talking about afterwards. As for the very activity in the Mediterranean, I am more inclined by my colleagues Vidovic. That's where I'd like to break up a little something and resent it. So what happens in the Mediterranean is special and what happens in Libya, Syria and Iraq is not insignificant. And I have no objection to the involvement of Croatian forces. However, there should certainly be a debate about something else. There should be special units of military police units because this Europe and the world that takes great care of ISIL where it is, it has released the most visible and most valuable members of ISIL or ISIS to breed across Europe and to act in Europe as they do. A colleague, a colleague, a colleague of Peovic, who I disagree with somewhere, and if there is time tomorrow, so both her and my colleague Rauhar, please be here, there is plenty of time so I can spend a minute. So tomorrow I'm going to analyze '41, '45. to see the antifascism, to see the partisan movement, to see the Croatian victims who were here. I'm going to give you 10 facts each of which is confidential, none of which is a lie, none of which is fiction, and I'm still going to try to make it very measured, calmly not to cause tension because I end up respecting you as agents who often say what suits me. Which I, which I fully support. My colleague Peovic mentioned military planes, so I would almost agree with her. Those military planes are good and quality, no doubt, but we need them now. Let's go back to that map we just mentioned, and see where the main threat could come from and what kind of army we need. Infantry, anti-aircraft, etc., first place. Those planes are great if we could get them somewhere on sale at low prices, somewhere from the bartenders to say half that price and take them out, all right. But regardless of their quality, I wouldn't be taking them right now. counterpart Deur warns of the value of Croatia's membership in NATO. I agree with that, too. There is no doubt that if we were members of the NATO Alliance there would be no Vukovar, but we do not have to object to NATO leaders, we have no speech of leaving the NATO alliance, but to explain to them that our interest is not the surrounding Russia because gentlemen are dear I hope academic Rainer will not interrupt me, that the younger generation representative he would consider me to be a full subject, I mean the president of the assembly this one might have interrupted me. So, what happened a long time ago between Serbia and Russia? A fellow Stier knows, but maybe they don't know the others, so let me mention it. So, after the Great Russian-Turkish War, and it was started on our premises, it was started in Herzegovina, and the main battles were fought by Montenegrins back then. Serbia also joined the war, first suffered a disastrous defeat, and then the second, second war on the power of Russian weapons, and they won as some kind of victory. But in 3.3.1878, in Sanstefan, so-called The Sanstefhan peace where Russia makes an agreement and peace with Turkey and creates Greater Bulgaria, half of Serbia is included in that Greater Bulgaria today and if it hadn't been for Austria, if it hadn't been for the interest of Western allies, that the Berlin Congress had not been held that same year, it would have ended all together differently. So, that's what I was supposed to say the day before yesterday that Hitler still has hot heads that think Hitler loved us. Well, that jerk Croat, he's not a jerk just because he didn't like us Croats. He did not love us Croatians, he loved and appreciated Serbs, and he should also break the stereotype about the Russians because of the difference between Catholicism and Orthodoxy as the enemies of the Croats. Gentlemen, you all know that the main weapon in the Homeland War has arrived from Russia or with Russian approval. This should be known and should be known both by the Western federal and for this reason, for this reason I think it should be very clear, very clear about the sending of Croatian soldiers to so-called. front presence. I have no illusions that this debate of mine will affect anything, but since the Russian services are valuable and the radios they watch what is happening here, they need to know that among the Croats there are a large number of those who value them and respect them and who are aware therefore of these historical connections. For me for this subject quite enough as seven, eight minutes, unfortunately for those of me that I love, it would take me half an hour. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79298	The next one will continue to speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go. He'll continue from Sanstefan peace to here. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79299	Yesilkoy, I know the end of Istanbul Dear colleagues and colleagues. [[/Intruder Reiner: This is St. Stefan, and this is Stefan now that's different.]] It's ahead of us if I counted eight decisions correctly, let's take a turn. First, in Kuwait, one soldier there since 2017, the second in the Mediterranean 35 soldiers last made a decision on 27.11.2020, Iraq 10 soldiers Parliament last made a decision on 12.7.2019, again the Mediterranean, but the other three soldiers Parliament last made a decision on 18.5.2020, NATO's command structure 100 soldiers Parliament last made a decision on 12.7.2019, Poland 90 soldiers from 2017, Lithuania 200 soldiers from the Parliament made a decision in 2017. Is there an important legitimate and fateful reason for us to end some of these missions? That's the first question. I didn't hear them, so obviously there's no reason to interrupt these missions at this point, and as one serious country, I think we're making it much more convincing for us to continue them. If there are reasons why they should be interrupted, they must be clear because the reasons why they should be started was when the country started them. In this regard, I do not care that all decisions made by the defence minister or by the government, on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Defence, have been proposed by the HS by the consent, and otherwise by the previous and the condition that it is decided in the Parliament by the ordinary, not by the two-thirds majority and by the President of the Republic. We will recall in our election campaign the only mission that the President of the Republic has said will require that it be completed in Afghanistan and after one rotation, our mission is over, and then many missions in Afghanistan have ended as it ended on the battlefield. Therefore, for these seven decisions already under way, the SDP club will support. As far as the eighth decision is concerned, which is not currently active and is not on the stand as the subject in USKOK, which is Kosovo's three members and health staff at the camp where refugees from Afghanistan have been evacuated. Given that it is a humanitarian mission, that it is a matter of helping people whom Croatia was also in Afghanistan at the time of its security or how false security has now turned out to be that this will take a little longer than I consider it to be a kind of moral debt to help people with healthcare staff, so we will also support it. Now, Poland, Lithuania and NATO's command structure are a total of 390 members of the armed forces, and the rest are about 50, so almost 80% or even more of the armed forces go to NATO countries, countries that are our allies and where we are obliged to defend them by joining NATO if anyone attacks them. If we're going to defend them if someone attacks them then it's not some dramatic difference if we're defending them by coming from Croatia or coming from Poland and Lithuania, that's not some dramatic difference. Also, when we talk about the cost of peacekeeping missions, then we like to talk about the total cost of staff and everything, even though these people would receive salaries and if they were in Croatia, it's not a direct cost or get journals, I don't know what the minister and president are in right now, but the salaries would certainly get paid. So the total number of members of the armed forces is 450 seems to me in several rotations, each rotation so much that includes these decisions. Now let's get some numbers, during the war in Croatia or the war in the former Yugoslavia UMPROFOR numbered 39,000 members, died 320, so almost as many foreign military members died in Croatia as we send people to these decisions outside. UNCRO 6,580 soldiers, 194 observers and 296 civilian police officers, died 16. UNTAES 44,849 I didn't see any information that someone had died, that's when the war ended. There were still UNMOP missions in Prevlaka and support to the Eastern Slavonia police forces after reintegration. So, it is not that Croatia is unknown that the unknown pensions are missions, that unknown foreign soldiers and let us be honest and say that it was much more dangerous to come to Croatia from other countries than in any of these missions where we are now sending soldiers. And if it's a kind of moral debt that we have according to the general concept of peace missions because at least at the beginning of the war they made possible a truce in a quieter environment than it is a total war, creating an HV, then I think it's fair that we're paying back that debt a little bit. Anything else if there's a serious reason for one of these missions that we didn't launch, and in which we participate, to end. This should be discussed seriously, but this would probably be discussed in public, and not when, by the will of the president of the meeting in the afternoon Thursday before an important vote on the budget and on the state's attorney's office, the report of the state's attorney comes on the agenda as, let's be honest, the secondary point, we're not even 10 here in the hall. As a result, without further patheticity, we will be aware of the responsibility and awareness of certain obligations and of the political circumstances under which these obligations have arisen or which are yet to arise without great enthusiasm, but without great opposition from this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79300	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and the Honorable representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79301	Thank you to the president, my fellow MPs and MPs. Speaking of sending our soldiers to the NATO Alliance mission, it would be our turn to discuss the problems of the Ministry of Defence staff and here in the field of the Republic of Croatia. For weeks, and perhaps months, the conflict at Milanovic-Banožic's route lasts. Recently, we also had the opportunity to hear a press conference where Orsat Milenić and Dragan Lozancic were present as a special adviser to the president of the state for defence and national security, giving the information that Defence Minister Banozic refuses to pay off the diaries for the soldiers' honorary protection war. So it is not my intention here to enter into the real motives of the conflict between the president of the state and the resolute defence minister, but I want to ask some other questions publicly. The first question is, are we able to defend the interests of our soldiers, worry about their rights, so we are talking about sending our soldiers to the NATO Alliance mission, and we are unable to ensure their right to pay off their respective diaries? And the second question that I am publicly opening is whether soldiers should be collateral victims of political conflicts at the time of the country's relations with the resolution ministry? The third question I ask is, is this only about political conflicts, and how will such conflicts at policy level reflect at a time when it will be difficult to make some concrete decision to send soldiers to some of the countries we are talking about today in the context of a united debate when our main problem is relations with members of the armed forces of the ultimate, extreme concern of the state and the entire system? Namely, this recent quarrel between Pantovčak and the Ban Courts about the actual symbolic amount of the diaries of a few soldiers participating as some honorary guard from the defense system of the president of the state reminded me of something that I remember well from my days of law. In fact, during the period when I was still a law enforcement officer at the Ministry of Defence, it seemed to me to be the first collective lawsuit at the time, it was the complaint of the MORH airmen 190 against the Ministry of Defence, against the Republic of Croatia, because of the failure to pay off the applicable rights stemming from the employment relationship. So this was about overtime, working nights, Sundays and holidays, 2003, so that's when the dispute was run by Goran Mikuličić's Attorney's Office. As far as I know these lawsuits have been received and some of our judicial epilogues, the funds have been paid, however, despite the fact that the system knew well what was going on with the soldiers and how our country treats them, and we should say to the military our citizens are proud and the military enjoys great trust in our public, when the worst, when the most difficult army is the first to go out on the ground, so the system has done nothing to make such an illegal and shameful practice change and prevent. Recently, the National weekly published an article, and this is how I thank the weekly. The title is better than it could ever be put by the "Trust System" itself, not even after the 9th year. Moreh didn't solve the million-dollar lawsuits of his employees. So it's said that the Department of Defense is still in 2012. formed a commission to determine why their employees were suing them, and during that period, taxpayers paid billions of kuna for compensation and enforcement due to work disputes. I'm just going to update, this isn't about a problem dating back to 2012, so it's not until after 9. Not solved, the problem lasts much longer, this is what I witnessed in 2003 when 190 brave airmen filed a collective lawsuit against their own state, but only because they were forced to do so. Obviously, this is a structural problem, and although taxpayers have paid billions of kuna damages and executions due to these work disputes, nothing has changed until today. Now for reasons...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79302	Dear MPs, I would ask you to stick to the subject, indeed here is the third time you have passed you have not said one word about the subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79303	...that the topic is sending soldiers to NATO mission...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79305	... and I ask the question if when we go to NATO, we will have judicial disputes again, and collective lawsuits because they are not paid to go there for their working rights, their journals, increased overtime fees, work at night, work on holidays and work on Sundays. And you can interrupt me as much as you want what the National weekly published really represents the reason and questions that we should all be concerned about, and whoever should be responsible for that is both the Chief and Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. Therefore, the reasons for all the initiations of these collective lawsuits also have their place in the provisions of the Armed Forces Service Act, which was adopted in 2002. He hasn't changed properly since. So, the problem of these lawsuits has been going on for 20 years now, it is a structural problem, which apparently even Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament do not account enough. And if this isn't the topic and part of the topic that we're talking about today in the context of a united debate, then I really don't know what should be. We can boast about the quality of our soldiers and the way they are treated and in the Republic of Croatia, we can be proud of them in the way they acted within the NATO Alliance mission, but when we start talking about how the Republic of Croatia treats them without paying them their basic rights stemming from a material relationship then it becomes taboo topic thanks to the chairman, Mr. Reiner, the knight of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79306	We are now going to an individual debate, so the first one will be spoken by respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79307	... I'm going to talk a little bit today about a subject that we haven't mentioned today. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I'm going to talk about women in military forces and women in peace missions. Two months ago, I attended the final conference of the project Strengthening Women and Support for Military Forces and Peace Missions of the Republic of Croatia and this was with the participation of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, the Ombudsman for Gender Equality and Civil Association, and in cooperation with the United States Embassy. Before carrying out the results of the project, I would like to stress that women in the Croatian state played an active and important role in defending our homeland in the Homeland War as today contributes to the construction of the Croatian Armed Forces. The share of women in the defence population in the counties ranged from 2.1 to 8.25. The largest share of women was precisely in my Lika-Senj County 8.2%, then Vukovar-Srijemska 7.3% and Zadar County. The role of women in the Homeland War is particularly important in view of the fact that none of these women were military. So all the women who went to war went voluntarily, and at a peacetime when we faced a common PTSD disease in the defender he did not only hit men, guess women, those warriors who felt him on himself, but also many women who were not directly on the battlefield, also suffer from the effects of PTSD on their life partners and close persons. I will return to the final conference where the results of the analysis of women's positions in the military forces and peace missions of the Republic of Croatia are presented, as well as recommendations that can improve and strengthen the position of women in the military forces and peace missions of the Republic of Croatia. The aim was to gain insight into the situation on the ground and to create concrete, concrete measures to improve the position of women in decision-making positions and on the ground. It is clear from the data collected that the gender imbalance in this sector is also visible in particular in higher and higher positions and in decision-making positions, i.e. because the status function is higher, it is less women in such situations. However, trends in women's participation in different categories are recorded so that of the 14,836 persons employed by the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army in late 2020 were 1,936 or 13% of women, one of the higher representations of women of active military personnel compared to NATO and RU. At the same time, there is a significant number of women who are civil servants and subsistence officers at the Ministry of Defence. These women are almost half the employees. 36% of women were deployed in the defence ministry in 2020, while 10% of women were assigned to the Croatian military's command duties. As for women engaged in international missions and peace support operations, the number was 54 women in 2020 and 5.8% of the total participants, respectively. In absolute numbers, there has been an increase in the number of women participating in international missions and peace support operations so that in the last seven years, the number of women has been constantly increasing. From 9 women in 2013 to 54 2020. This was the first part of the project's results, and the second part presented the results of survey studies on gender discrimination in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia on a sample of 150 subjects. So the subjects were both men and women and more were female subjects and more than half of the subjects were exposed to some form of harassment and violence, as the most represented forms of harassment were gossip, spreading rumors, sexist comments and inappropriate commentation of appearance. Among the perpetrators of discrimination are the most represented persons, then colleagues and colleagues and what is significant, that more than 2/3 of the perpetrators of discrimination, harassment and violence were men. Less than 11% reported discrimination, not because Most commonly due to non-trust in [[Intruder: Thank you.]] login system. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79308	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79309	Here, thank you, Chairman, honourable MPs. You must be the woman who comes from Licko-Senj County, I say it on purpose because the county is safe to suffer a great aggression, a great Serb aggression, and you yourself said that Licko-Senj County is among the first counties how many women participated in the Homeland War. And I am a witness that indeed they made great contributions, not only to the humanitarian act, but to the very combat activities that were truly but to the couples of men. Do today, here, after 30 years and knowing that a lot of women, thank God and the OSRH give their command line and all others, do we, as a society, really value this contribution of a woman, a mother through all this that woman is going through in this society today, the family that we live in? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79310	Dear representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79311	Thank you for asking, colleague Deur. Of course you have experience in the Homeland War, you've had fellow women and you know how it was at the time. We also had meanings in the Homeland War women active defenders who participated in the battlefield, but also, we had indirect participants, they were women as members of war families who cared about their sons, husbands, their close family members, friends, neighbors, etc. And nowadays, the situation is that just as men are suffering from various stress-induced diseases in the Homeland War, so are women,... to PTSD where we may need to in some way and a little more motivate women to refer to doctors to determine their condition and help them in this way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79312	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79313	... Excuse me. [[Specially enabled.]] [[Intruder: microphone, microphone.]] In your presentation, you said that one of the project's objectives was to strengthen women and support in the military forces and peace missions of the Republic of Croatia, which you yourself attended the project, and concrete measures and recommendations for improving women's position and greater opportunities for progress in the system itself, so if you can say more about these recommendations to improve women's position in the OSRH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79314	Dear representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79315	Thank you, colleague Zmaic. Yes, you have noticed well, I have mentioned the recommendations, but I did not mention them because for 5 minutes it was simply a little bit, and here, some of the recommendations made by projects were to create a long-term strategic approach with the aim of attracting a number of candidates in the OSRH, to appoint and train gender equality advisers within the OSRH, to improve the system of carrying out gender-sensitive statistics, to ensure gender-sensitive career development and human fluctuations, and to encourage victims to report sexual discrimination and harassment, and to take efforts to build confidence in the system of reporting discrimination, to strengthen mechanisms of discrimination, harassment and violence and to introduce victims to report sexual discrimination and harassment and to all Commissioners. to protect dignity. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79316	Honorable representative Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, fellow Members, for opening a new topic for this debate, an important topic, the role of women in the OSRH, you have highlighted the role they played in the Homeland War, but also now in the peace missions. I would just like to complete your debate with the role some prominent women have played in the OSRH in implementing and planning reforms that have allowed Croatia to join NATO. In this context, they made a huge contribution and a prominent leadership in this. I would also mention Gordana Garasic in this context and so on for the first general of the Croatian Army to be in missions, which today is also serving in the OSRH and I think it can serve as an example for other women in our OSRH system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79318	Dear representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79319	Thank you, fellow Stier. Yes, you've just mentioned our first and only general for now, of 30, is it, the general we've got right now, somewhere I've read it. She is the only general and since 2017 there has been no movement in that direction, we hope that this will be, and I believe that this is the topic we need to discuss because yet 13% of women are in the active composition of the Croatian Army. That's exactly what we pointed out on the Committee on Gender Equality when we analyzed the Defence Report, so we pointed out that it might be good to see, now and a message to the Ministry's representatives to get a little more into the Defence Report that is being delivered to the Assembly every year, to put a little bit more information and analysis on women in the OSRH to see how they can be helped and how to help them progress, but also how to motivate new women to join the OSRH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79320	Thank you very much. Now they will speak to the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79321	In previous NATO missions, the Republic of Croatia has undoubtedly proved to be a serious and loyal partner. The remarks we have made here concern only the choices in which we will send people, whether we must in everything and the explanations that our interests are geostrategic, political, and economical in certain areas, and we have also pointed out that it is unserious without a risk assessment that we expect to vote for sending soldiers on a mission. Speaking of which, the Republic of Croatia has been a loyal partner to expect is that it will also seek some kind of support and some kind of political and economical from its larger NATO partners. I'm afraid that's all gone by now. The best example is BiH and the relationship of the NATO Pact to BiH in recent years. In a speech on behalf of the club, I touched the 2016 NATO Summit. in which the Member States of the Alliance have decided to act in two basic directions where the first direction is to further strengthen collective deterrence and defence through strengthening the eastern presence of the Eastern Alliance, we have elaborated all this. And the second direction is to project stability beyond the borders of the alliance by building institutional and security architecture of partner countries, building institutional and security architecture of partner countries. In recent years, compared to BiH, this has led to the excavation of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the demining of the very foundations of the BiH state, which are the constituent nations listed in Annex 4. The Dayton Peace Accords, which is the BiH Constitution and which are a constant, constant in the modern political history of BiH, that I am now not going back to decisions... So, I ask the question when we talk about the NATO Pact and our participation in missions, can Croatia at least negotiate with its major NATO partners in return for the support of Croatian national interests, where they are closest, support not for Croatian national interests which would go to the expense of the interests of others or that would cause instability but that are the only guarantee of BiH's survival because there is no other basis for BiH than the Dayton Peace Agreement. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We had a situation this year on 14.6. in Brussels there was a NATO summit in which there was no mention of either the constituent peoples or the Dayton Peace Agreement in the BiH-speaking section. I don't know how it could have gone to our foreign ministry without anyone noticing it or not having scratched it or we're used to signing and raising hands and agreeing to everything that comes from NATO or Brussels without thinking, so we had a situation where the president of the Republic saw it and vetoed it and said he won't sign that declaration until the constituent peoples are put in place, so something which is the foundation of the BiH Constitution, why it hides, which is now a disgrace in the BiH Constitution. In order to achieve a compromise solution, no constitutional peoples are mentioned, but the Dayton BiH, the Dayton Peace Agreement, was mentioned, and then the president of the Republic of Croatia voted in favour of the declaration, and it passed. Did we have to come to this, which has been done for years? The Dayton Peace Agreement didn't arise in the sense that '95. People were sitting, so what BiH could be, so if it could be civil, could be federal, confederal, so here's someone screwed up and made it just like this instead of making it a civil one. No, it was the only way to end the war. The agreement has 100 faults, but it has stopped one terrible bloody conflict and every unilateral excavation of this agreement is a criminal policy, and I don't think I should say it, even though we've been coming from the SR of Germany who's been actively working on it for years. It's a criminal policy to unearth a unilateral Dayton Peace Agreement, and for the will of majority nationalism, which comes under cover of false civil stories in a country where 97% of the people on the list have declared themselves a member of one of the 3 constituent nations. So here's what we do in the NATO Pact, and how do we use our participation to get support from our partners for Croatian strategic national interests?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79322	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79323	Thank you, Chairman. Well, my replica is not so much directed to Mr. Detect, but to you, the chairman of HS. Somehow you seemed rather spiritless, so I wonder if you followed the course of exposure at all? In fact, I may be confused here, too, we should talk unitedly about sending soldiers to various NATO alliance missions, and my individual speech, counterpart Rasdic, has dedicated himself to the Dayton Peace Accords. What do you say to the chairman, was that in the context of the subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79324	My colleague Rasdic was also talking about sending this soldier out. I've allowed the same thing that I've allowed you to talk more than a third of the time about a subject that has nothing to do with this subject that you've found yourself on, I don't know what hit you, I haven't given you a warning or anything but politely tried to direct you to talk about the subject anyway. And otherwise, it wasn't common in this assembly to communicate in such a way that these MPs have something to say to the chairman how to run the session, what to say, who to allow, who not, etc., so that's for future to know. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79325	Dear Representative Oreskovic, I have repeatedly expressed disagreement in the assembly with the way in which the chairman leads the session and mentioned that the word Parliament comes from the parlo parliament of Starlatin where talking is concerned and that we must be allowed to speak eventually at the end of the speech to say if something was out of the question because it cannot be known before the end if it has something to do with the topic. So you're right to be human to not be allowed to speak any further, but that's no reason to denunciate my speech. In 15 minutes, I studied these seven points very closely and explained the problems. And now I've come from the the thesis that Croatia is a very responsible and loyal partner in NATO missions, but what we've been asking in return for our large strategic NATO partners' business when it comes to Croatian national interests, and primarily such interest is the position of Croats in BiH and the survival of BiH, so I don't think I deserve such a meal on your part. And you are rightly dissatisfied with the way in which the debate is conducted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79326	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I have answered the word a little bit to perhaps offer some reflections of the next course of discussion, where it has been mentioned several times that we refer to active military personnel in these missions because we are members of NATO, that we are members of the EU, the UN because of the principle of solidarity, of course, because of the interoperability of our armed forces and the exercise of both the Land Army and the Air Force. A few discussions were discussed, for example. around Poland, the Baltics and the missions NATO has in this area, it is mentioned sometimes and in the context of perhaps some anti-Russian variants. But let's stop for a moment, there is primarily a determination that the entry of Central Europe and the new geopolitical situation that was created after the fall of the Berlin Wall, and later by extending NATO there is no revision of such a situation, that there is simply no going back in this regard, but that it stands firmly with Poland and the Baltic countries being members of the NATO alliance, part of the West, and that this simply cannot be questioned. Germany, for example. participates that absolutely has absolutely no interest in any escalation between the West and Russia for several reasons including energy cooperation and that may be an additional argument in favour of this. But it shows that one determination is also not to revise or reject these attempts at reviewing what happened in 1989, and there are some who might want to put the situation back to the way it was before that. Also, operations in Kosovo are support for security, I support Southeast Europe for security and independence of Kosovo and also a clear signal that there is no back to the situation it was before Kosovo's independence. Libya is also mentioned, there are several geopolitical actors and Russia, Turkey has its own army, of course we send a very small number, but in this EU mission that wants to be there makes sense, it also makes sense for Croatia that has its own interests, including economics and has in Libya. Also mentioned is terrorism, a terrorist attack in Rijeka in '95 was also mentioned, but it was not mentioned that Croatia was not a NATO member then, hence NATO membership could not have caused this. It is mentioned that we are now at 2% of the 2% of the GDP of the defence separation, and it was by colleague Peovic in the sense that instead of NATO maybe we should reconsider some unclassified policy, however, this policy of non-classification, for example. During Yugoslavia, she singled out a lot more for defence than the NATO alliance's independent Republic of Macedonia does today, so the same should be said in that context. Therefore, Croatia, by participating in these missions, naturally strengthens its position. Of course, NATO has its own mechanisms to decide and Croatia participates in this. Of course, the EU also has its own mechanisms to make certain decisions and wants to strengthen both its defence capacities and the opposite of what is sometimes claimed to be contradictory with NATO or with US interests. Today, even from the US administration, expectations are that Europe strengthens its defence component or defence capacity, of course in cooperation and with the alliance with the United States, and that is why Croatia and foreign policy and defence policy also see their space and their contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79328	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Chapel.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79329	The Honorable Chairman. A fellow Stier. Today, a lot of times in the debate has been mentioned and the skip is called MVEP, is the MVEP from your experiences and knowledge in these missions in terms of how much it has participated, how it has been integrated along with the defense, and in such a way as to see yet ad it was not as it has been all along as it is wanted to point out that the MVEP is somehow disabling or simply bypassed, so how did you see that part and how from your experience, however, that common component was between these two ministries?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79330	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79331	Thank you, colleague Cappelly, for that question. My experience was that we, so I assume you refer to my experience as foreign minister. We also had coordination where, of course, to colleagues from the Ministry of Defence and from the Ministry of Interior, because several missions also involve the Ministry of Defence, we have just changed information, coordinated decisions, and, of course, at the end of the day, as you know, every decision the government makes collectively, therefore, every member of the government participates in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79332	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79333	Dear Representative, in recent days, the public has been bombarded with news from Poland, Lithuania, Belarus, Russia, stories and footage of Russian forces and is amazed by the slogans of statements and Mr. Stoltenberg's chief secretary of NATO or some other officials who have said that there is no way to say whether it is 80 or 20%. If we accept it as a rhetorical figure and this 20% lower limit to a conflict there, I find it very worrying in a situation where we have to send almost 300 of our people there. Since you are well aware of foreign affairs, you were also Minister of Foreign Affairs and that area, and we did not receive this information in the documentation provided by these points, as you estimate at the 12th month 2021 the risk of our troops' operation in Poland and Lithuania. It's a low, medium or high level of danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79334	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79335	As I said in the debate, so what this mission in Poland is about to accomplish is to show that there is no back in that geopolitical situation created after the fall of the Berlin Wall. So much when this determination is shown, it decreases, reduces the risk of some attempts at reviewing, audit efforts that could lead to an escalating conflict in these areas. So that's exactly the kind of mission that's in the function of reducing, reducing the danger of war.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79336	Honored representative, Honored representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79337	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, I'm glad you mentioned a geopolitical situation that is actually the basis for entering different associations between us and NATO. It seems to me that here some advocates of the opposition of our participation in peace operations and peace missions look through the prism of costs, needlessly to the EU's availability and so on, consider it unnecessary that they are not aware of where we are living and that we do not want to be repeated the things we have experienced through more wars throughout history and that we are always targeted by different territorial claims and that only by association with Western associations we can strengthen ourselves, and that is what the Homeland War has shown when we can't just but, here we are, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79338	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79339	Thank you, colleague, for that question. Certainly, having a state cost, having an armed force costs, of course training the armed forces, equipping the armed forces costs, of course, and participating in peace missions costs, but much more costs of natural destruction, war, much more cost when you don't have allies when you have to face such destruction yourself. So, of course it's all costing, but I'd say we have to look at it really as one investment in our safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79340	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79341	Yes, you misquoted me, my colleague Stier, so I thought I'd get back to you. So I didn't say that ours literally meant it wasn't literally that our membership in NATO caused a terrorist attack in Rijeka when it happened before we joined NATO, but that belonging to some geopolitical community puts us in danger just as much as it might have some advantages. So you can't talk about NATO exclusively from this perspective of strengthening security if we're actually putting ourselves on the line to some dangers. In that sense, this terrorist attack. And then the other thing you said was an argument, so 2% of defense separation is not an argument because more has been said in Yugoslavia. Well, I don't know why that would be an argument now, you understand, it doesn't matter how much in Yugoslavia has been put out, but how realistic it is to single out now in existing geopolitical relations in which truly no colleagues have a sign that we're going to war with someone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79342	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79343	Thank you, colleague Peovic. I mentioned to you the question of non-classified Yugoslavia by referencing to your debate precisely because at the end of your debate, you opened up the subject of non-classification and then it seemed to me that it was correct to stress the fact that it was then being drawn out much more. That today, if someone went to conceive armed forces and a system of armed forces without NATO membership, so that we must develop absolutely all the defence capacities that we should have alone, and not with the alliance, it should also be increased for defence. So these are the facts. And geopolitical facts are that today for Croatia there is really no room for an unclassified policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79344	Thank you now for speaking to the esteemed representative of Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79345	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I might look back today exactly like my predecessor, my colleague Stier, therefore, in the new security challenges and instability, so in the immediate environment of NATO, it has led the Member States to agree on the need to strengthen the protection of borders and collective security. As a responsible country and an international community factor, the Republic of Croatia attaches importance to the participation of so-called peace missions and operations, as discussed today at noon, so it actively contributes to strengthening international security and resolving crises, primarily peaceful ways. Participation in peacekeeping missions and operations is also an important instrument for foreign and security policy and ensures that national interests are met, note, national interests and foreign policy objectives of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia therefore participates in international missions and operations in accordance with the values and interests it shares with other members of the UN, the EU, NATO and the OSCE and the basis of the provisions of the basic documents of those organisations, such as the UN Charter, the North Atlantic Treaty, etc. At EU level as an important and important document, it is preparing a strategic compass that represents a key initiative in the field of security and defence, which is therefore in response to the need for strategic thinking of security and defence in the context of a changed geopolitical, precisely what Mr Stier was talking about, the international and political and security environment. The strategic compass is designed as one document that will connect and direct a number of EU security and defence initiatives. It will therefore be based on three, if we can say, a branch or something like that, which is crisis management, building the ability of partners and the most important and important, protection of the Union and its citizens. So, in other words, one intervention army, one unit or something like that is going to be done, a small number, but we have seen, when something is urgent, where a quick, quality intervention is needed, in which it will decide only at EU level, that something like this can be organised and reacted quickly. And we've seen that from events like now on in Poland and somewhere else, that we can also prepare and react. Partnership with international organisations is a key contribution from the EU to international security and peace, starting with good co-operation with the UN, as missions and EU and UN operations are often deployed in the same countries. However, NATO remains of course the cornerstone of collective defence and deepening and effective co-operation, achieving synergies between the EU and NATO efforts of the alliance is one of the key priorities of those two families' cooperation, if we can say so. The decision to launch a reinforced frontal presence was adopted in response to the Russian annexation of Crimea and a changed geopolitical environment. At NATO's meeting, therefore at the top in Warsaw 2016, a decision has been taken just to strengthen collective deterrence and defence through strengthening the front so-called presence. As you know, it started in 2017 through the deployment of exactly 4 combat groups, Allied forces in countries in the eastern part of the alliances in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Poland. And there he would point out in particular that the Republic of Croatia has therefore been participating in a fighting group in Poland for the past 8 years under the leadership of the United States with a total of 640 members of the Armed Forces. So these are changed, so if we can say, geopolitical situations in which we have naturally reacted at EU level and we will react precisely in quality through a future strategic compass that will be one answer to extraordinary situations in which we will in some ways very clearly and responsibly give the knowledge that we will protect EU citizens, regardless of their entry. continue to be together a great and strong partner of the NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79346	The Republic has a respected representative, Rasludic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79347	Your Honor, you mentioned the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in your replica just now. Do you feel that in such matters, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would have to contribute one explanation of the geostrategic context and politically in the country or countries in which we send our soldiers on a mission and define our political and economic interests there? Because in this way, it's simply a joke that we get as an input to raise our hands and send soldiers on a mission. Here, you wouldn't want this to be taken on purpose but as a real proposal for next year, that MPs get more fuller and more serious information so they can make that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79348	Your Honor, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79349	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I asked Mr. Steir from his experience whether she was becoming such a co-ordination at the foreign ministry, as far as I'm aware, I know that, therefore not only at the Foreign and Defence Ministry level, but also at the Ministry of Foreign and Defence level, but also some other stakeholders, so I'm thinking and I guess, maybe and I'm convinced that there was, whether there was enough documents on the table to make it easier for us all to assess a situation, at this point I wouldn't go into details, but in any case I know that it exists and that it works very well, in some way from the experience of diplomacy that I was in, I had at the daily level on a table on a table of events that we could read every day and that I have today as president of the board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79350	The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Ante Deur, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79351	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, I'd like to mention a few things. Surely, first of all, the Defence Committee is very good at all the facts that the listed have seen, what the Proposer has proposed together with and in agreement with the President of the Republic, the Minister of Defence, who came to the Committee today at HS. Croatia's state, the Croatian Army is in the strongest population in the world, which is NATO. The Croatian state is in the EU, in its economic and all life functions where we belong, civilised world and cultural and life, where we wanted, for years, we searched, fought, and as a participant of the Homeland War where we longed for this NATO, for the EU. Today to mention that the Croatian state, with its membership in this strongest family, can endanger someone, I think it's absurd. The Croatian state received only one security, defence and national security. Value in education, strength of Croatian soldiers, officer to be better, best. I think both the former president and the president of the republic and former Minister Krsticevic and Banozic OSRH are doing the best. To make it recognizable, that the Croatian Army is indeed a force because, as we faced wars in these areas in the 1990s, today we have great migrations that are certainly a serious problem in this part of Europe. Today through all humanitarian actions through which the Croatian Army is safely going through and leaving, as well as through assistance that is inevitable. Here, I'll mention Kosovo. We know that both those who have felt this great Serbian aggression and that Croatia as a member of NATO with everything, with soldiers and partners who there are giving one security, and certainly the Croatian community that lives there. I think HS can certainly win, and it's good that there are different opinions in HS. It is good to look for an indication because each parliamentary representative comes from one area of his constituents. These are the things that are noble, which are strengthened, it is good to mention BiH, because there are also people who are born in BiH and know what the Croatian people as a constituent people have been going through all these 1990s, which is very important to note that we are thinking together, that we are proposing, but that we are nevertheless seeing reality by helping the true Croatian people in BiH for betterment, for empowerment, for not to be displaced, to live down there, for the family from which they create life, that is what they come from and comes from both Croatian soldiers and soldiers, it is one security, when we take everything in and when we draw the line, that family through which God has saved this people at the most difficult times. As a Christian state, mostly Catholic, we can safely say that we have all this knowledge and that we also have to get to know this HS, the largest House of the Croatian People, and to let some of our activist ideas that often come to mind because indeed the Defence Committee together with the Proposer truly and with what is with... President of the Republic and Minister, Government, I think you're thinking as best you can. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79352	We have two replicas, the first respected representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79353	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Deur. Here you are today, following the debate, and during the course of Mr. Stier's discussion, we stressed the importance of geopolitical position and duration... And then colleague Peovic says there's no indication that we're going to be at war with someone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you were a Croatian defender, in the war, you were born in the 1970s, like me, we grew up in one country, so there was no indication at that time that the Croatian state would be created in the war, so how do you comment that anyone who lives in this country can say that we do not have to invest in the defence system, in the defence forces of Croatia because there is no indication that we are going to war with someone. Well, they don't create armed forces overnight. I'm asking your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79354	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79355	Here, thank you, esteemed MP. You have already made sure in your question that the experience we have been through, the experience is the greatest foundation of security that the Croatian people have gone through and the institutions of the Croatian state must have a strong, ready, determined Croatian army, with all its parameters, segments, and today what we are going through and everything that goes on in one strengthening process both in the technical and operational parts and in the human and aircraft that have come, tell us that this membership in NATO, that we are also recognized by France as the first force in Europe in NATO, shows how strong the Croatian state today is and how many Croatian states and its institutions are taking care of the security and defence of their country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79356	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79357	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Deur, given that we are discussing peace missions and operations today, it is good to remember that administrative peacekeeping missions have been on the ground of the Republic of Croatia since the early 1990s, until 15 January 1998, that thanks to these peace missions on the ground of the Republic of Croatia we have successfully completed and peaceful reintegration of Croatia's Podunije thanks to the first Croatian president Dr. Franji Tudjman and that it became the most successful peacekeeping mission in the history of the UN, and that we as the Republic of Croatia have now become a donor state, so now what we had in the '90s we show and apply around the world. I think that further shows the importance and importance of this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79358	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79359	Well, you certainly said some important, very important facts of one time that occurred and one history of one nation and the process of creation and all the elements of one country, regardless of what we were all together in another country and what was happening in those years. Surely President Tudjman mentioned this very peaceful reintegration as one no matter what he thought at the time, but because of all the victims that were then this peace-making and peaceful reintegration gave this one power to make this large part of Croatia, which is Podunavlje, to come to the constitutional part of the Republic, to be truly without sacrifice and it has succeeded, it was done in the best way, which today the Croatian state, as you said, is in another position to give something with experience to recommend countries unfortunately which may be in a similar position.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79360	Now, finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79361	In the final word, I will express another regret as to why all these points have come united. The fact that they should not have been united because they speak of completely different things and contexts, and even different mission commands, in one case it is a European mission, and not NATO, is the fact that after a thorough analysis and arguments I have offered for all of these individual missions we are now in a position to vote in favour of, with one against, and for the other abstentions. We have already heard from the Defence Committee in their report that part of the members noticed that reports on the implementation of missions are content, I quote, it is becoming more and more thin, modest and summary, and that it is regularly submitted exclusively as part of the annual defence report. So we'd like more extensive and more content coverage of missions. The Defence Committee also said that, with a view to better information and better quality decision-making, more detailed reports were to be submitted, supported by concrete data providing a more comprehensive review of their implementation. I sincerely hope that the practice will change and that next time it will be so because we can't, I repeat, send soldiers anywhere without a clear explanation of why we're sending them. I will repeat once again, at least the Ministry of Foreign Affairs expected a clearer explanation of both the geopolitical context and the situation, and it is also necessary to have a risk assessment of the mission we are sending our people to. So, for us, we don't have the reserves, and we're going to vote yes, and that's acceptable. The decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia is on NATO's command structure. We are members of the NATO Pact and we have some obligations, but we also need to achieve those obligations in line with the assessments of our national interests and geostrategic and political and economical interests, not without any explanation. So that's where we vote for. We are opposed to the participation of our soldiers in an unclear and undefined EU-led operation, it is "EUNAVFOR MED IRINI" around Libya, where we have oversight and military embargo, on the other hand, preventing the violation of oil smuggling without clear indicators to which we are helping, to whom we are devoting and whose responsibilities there are, so we do not see any need for Croatia to participate in this action. As far as the remaining 6 items and 6 missions are concerned, we will be restrained for reasons we have not received, I will repeat first and foremost what is most important, an assessment of the risk of these missions, on the other hand an explanation of the political and geopolitical context in the countries to which these missions relate. It was also necessary because this mission, which is exclusively humanitarian, would support it so much that it was supported as it belongs in Kosovo, concerns people from Afghanistan who had to avoid the new old regime after the collapse of the complete project and the NATO Pact in Afghanistan. So, the minimum would be to get an explanation of what happened to Afghanistan and whether all the effort and work and resources that the Republic of Croatia invested there and our armed forces were in vain today, that we had come down to saving lives and taking care of the people who co-operated with NATO forces there, and now they had to avoid the Taliban. Also an explanation of the purpose of action and perspective itself is needed for these two missions in Iraq, and that, too, is missing. So in conclusion, I hope that these serious things will be discussed individually in the future because it is about different contexts, that they will be equipped with quality and detailed information about the geopolitical context, what is most important and by assessing the level of risk for our soldiers that we send there. I repeat so much that we will again be restrained on the NATO issue of a mission against this undefined EU-led mission in Libya, and for these formalities to fill NATO's command structure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79362	Finally, in the name of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Nikola Mažar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79363	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with the Secretary-General of Defense, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. The Republic of Croatia continuously strengthens the methods and means through which it fulfils its national interests. One way to achieve them in the area of security and defence is to promote the status of the Republic of Croatia as a reliable and credible ally and partners in building and maintaining European and global security and stability. As a responsible member of the international community, the Republic of Croatia actively contributes to the peaceful resolution of crises and the stabilisation of crisis areas in the world by participating in peacekeeping missions and operations. As we could have heard earlier, and perhaps we didn't mention it today through the discussion of how much peace missions and operations mean to ordinary people, to small people, to people who are not by their own fault brought into areas that are unstable, who are threatened by war and suffering. We heard that in the early 1990s it was the international missions that participated in the area of the Republic of Croatia and in the pension force, first of all it was the first European Community observation mission, later it was the UNTAES and UMPROFOR. And I can tell from my personal experience back in 1998. in their hometown of Vukovar as much as those forces meant to us not only to support the stabilisation and normalisation of life in the city of Vukovar and the surrounding areas, but in one psychological sense by providing security to all of us that although the city was then in the dark, although there was no public lighting, although there were no roads, traffic lights, although there was no practical normal life that we could normally go to our daily activities and go to school, go to work and lift our city from the ashes together. The Republic of Croatia was then the recipient of international assistance, international missions, international peacekeeping forces, and has already completed peaceful reintegration on 15 January 1998. and later ended in the 1999 Peace Ministry of the Peacekeeping Missions as well. The Republic of Croatia has become an aid provider from its recipient. Since then, since 1999. To date, the Republic of Croatia has participated in 44 international missions, operations and combat groups with about 10,000 members and members of the armed forces, 150 members of police officers and officials and a dozen diplomats. This certainly strengthened the Republic of Croatia's international position, created itself into a partner who is credible, who is responsible, who is stable and can be counted on at any time, not only within the NATO alliance but also wider. Croatia has shown by all this that as a young country created in democracy only 30 years ago, it has managed to fulfil all the international obligations that were put before it. International operations are certainly an excellent opportunity for training and training members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia under real conditions, thus improving their capabilities and interoperability with allied and partner forces. All of these are recognised, of course, in the strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia starting with the National Security Strategy, the Defence Strategy Draft, the Strategic Defence Review and the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, where the contribution to international security is defined as one of the three missions of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. All this says that the Republic of Croatia is not only ready to carry out everything that is put before it, but it certainly thought long-term and strategically in all directions about both national interests and its international reputation and international recognition from others, so we can say both larger and developed members. For all of the above reasons, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the proposed international missions and operations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79364	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I must, on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, first of all express my gratitude that this debate has been so thorough and that it has lasted this long because in this way we also give recognition to these soldiers and soldiers who will participate in the peace missions, who will also be ambassadors of the Republic of Croatia, and this is related to what we have spoken earlier in the opening section and through your discussions that our soldiers and soldiers are highly appreciated in all these pension missions. There were speeches here and several questions already at the very beginning, so I stayed in debt, so the detachment to defend against GDP in '21. 2.14, '22. Project 1.95, '23. 1.79, '24. 1.75 means we are not still catching those 2% because thank God and GDP is growing, and then that part of our nominal amount is going to fall a little bit more, although the defense separations will have to be further strengthened and continued because the army has to be equipped, the army must be ready because then our citizens will certainly be even safer and even more appreciated by our Croatian army. On the other hand, it's wonderful to have a country, it's wonderful to have our own army, the Croatian army, and it's really nice that we don't need any more help in peace missions, not God that we should ever need more than we should go to help, there will always be peace missions, there will always be areas where we have to help. The cost of these today's decisions over the next 2 years is about 75 million kuna, which is the respected representative Peovic asked, so there is, so NATO membership is about 36.5 million kuna a year, EU membership fee of about 2.5 million kuna. As far as paying the costs of soldiers and soldiers, here we are talking about peace missions today, we can talk in general, therefore, the MORH in which the Croatian Army, the Armed Forces of the Croatian Army, is carrying out all its obligations and taking care of the people and it is visible by the separation, so from the budget, I said at the beginning and now that we have the purchase of the aircraft, that we are at 43.3%, if we were to exclude that part, then it turns out that we are on the people and on the salaries and on the additions and everything else that goes to the people, that we are anywhere near 60%. It is a very clear sign and a signal that we actually have a soldier and a soldier in the first place, that people are in the first place because someone said yesterday on the board that we were 90s, that we had neither weapons nor weapons nor resources but we had people and those people were ultimately those who freed Croatia and created the Croatian state. On that trail, the ministry is still devoting itself. For missions and operations, there are no lawsuits and all the rights of members of the OS which have therefore always been carried out, if in some times it has been before, and whether or not it is, these are times that should not be repeated as such. As for overtime, working on Saturdays and holidays, we need to know that the Service Act was replaced by a military salary allowance for all active military personnel due to the specificity of the military invitation, so they simply have a regular and permanent salary allowance and no overtime. For missions and everything else, there is, of course, a field allowance, journals and everything that goes in that part, so from these funds that I have mentioned, it will all be paid. I have said before that all obligations, all tasks carried out in accordance with the applicable laws in the Republic of Croatia, have never disputed any claims and no one has ever forbidden anything to anyone. That's right. As regards further proposals from the Green-Left bloc Club, the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit to the Croatian Assembly, once a year, the Annual Defence Report on the participation of the OSCE in peacekeeping missions and operations under which it will submit the Report on the participation of the members of the Republic of Croatia in all peacekeeping missions and operations in the past period, the Government does not accept such a conclusion for the reasons that, in the Annual Defence Report submitted to the Croatian Assembly, the participation of the OSCE in missions, operations and other activities abroad is shown annually in detail by respecting and taking note of what is today through discussion and speaking, and the question of women in the Croatian Army and on missions, it can be further detailed, strengthened but it is an integral part of the report. Once again, thank you, especially those of course who have publicly supported, I believe that this sending our troops will be greatly supported in the Croatian Parliament for the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79366	Thank you. We have several replicas, a respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79367	Thank you. Dear Proposer, we'd just like to clarify some specifics. Whether there are currently in the system, information on whether there are still any disputes, if they are being conducted, at what stage, whether you have clear information about it or not. You're saying that there's never been a disputed claim from a working relationship, it's a really amazing statement when it's known how many collective and how many individual lawsuits have been filed, how many judgments did the courts have to make to get our soldiers to their material rights, so it's really not clear to me what you meant, especially in the context of the fact that we still have to continue with this one shameful practice that a minister allows himself with his discretionary assessment to deny the payment of the diaries to the soldiers who own these diaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79368	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79369	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, we may have misunderstood or I may have said vaguely enough, I said that not entering what was before and certainly there are still disputes, it's a large system, I said in that part that not entering what was before, and that as far as this current situation is concerned, so everything that is implemented in accordance with the laws, there is no dispute for any such activity. Whether there will be any lawsuits, whether there will be a process, I can't do it, none of us can say it will or won't because it's a normal thing that in a democratic society people are always fighting for their rights and trying to exorcise, but I'm just talking about the Ministry of Defense acting by law and respecting those laws to anyone who is in accordance with the law in action not challenging anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79370	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79371	Well, thank you. You said that the total of the defense, defence and share in GDP is 1.7%, and that can't possibly be a point. So in June, on the eve of the 30-nation top meeting, NATO published the latest data with estimates together for defence by Member States, buying 12 means that French military aircraft Croatia exceeded 2%. So no, not that it's 2% detachment for defence in GDP, but it's probably a higher percentage, but it's certainly not 1.7%, and it's a little scary I have to admit your announcement that we're going to have to single out more if we take into account that at the time, it means that when Croatia took that commitment, it jumped to the top among 30 NATO members from 10.3% to 43.5% of the military budget for this year's equipment. So that's really a lot of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79372	Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79373	So 2.14% I said for 2021, 1.95 for '22, 2.23 for 1.79 for '23. And 1.75 for '24, that's projections. And these are your numbers, so here we are in preparation for the closing statement on your search for data from the ministry's service which is so. Otherwise, without the VBA, it was 1.79.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79374	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79375	Thank you, Vice President. During the debate, the secretary of state talked a lot about co-operation between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that it might be necessary to give a more detailed geopolitical, foreign-political analysis of the area where we point to our army. It seems to me that in this context it might be good, and it may be a reflection more on our work in the assembly that one of the thematic sessions of the foreign policy committee will include these topics and, of course, be a representative of the Ministry of Defence or of the Secretary of State or an assistant who will, on the defence side, also provide his own input for such a single debate on the foreign policy committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79376	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79377	Thank you, Your Honor, we will be very happy to respond to any such initiative and here on behalf of the Minister and the Ministry and all of us in the system can say that we are looking forward to any debate on the defence system, on the development of the defence system, on the Croatian Army. She can always bring just something good. Let it be said about what is good, which is one of the fundamental pillars of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u79378	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We are now going to the last item today, and that is: - The report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Mr Robert Jankovic to submit the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u80424	Dear Mr Vice-President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 21st session held on November 25th 2021 the request of the County Court in Sibenik, Business Number KZ-151/2020 sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for approval for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Dario Hrebak of MPs in the Croatian Assembly for appeal by private prosecutor Alen Kaminski and the company Minea d.o.o. from Bjelovar, invested in the first-degree judgment of the Municipal Court in Bjelovar, Business. No. K-259/2018-24 of 12 March 2020 in the case under private complaint for the offence of the slander of the Art. 149th century in connection with Article 1 of the Penal Code. Dario Hrebak, representative of the 10th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be initiated or prosecuted without the decision of the Croatian Parliament. The term of office of the Commission shall be subject to the provisions of Article 116 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following Decision: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings at the request of the County Court in Sibenik, Business issue: Kž-151/2020 v Dari Hrebak, MP at the Croatian Assembly for appeal by private prosecutor Allen Kaminski and company Minea d.o.o. from Bjelovar, invested in the first-degree judgment of the Municipal Court in Bjelovar Business. Number: K-259/2018-24 of 12 March 2020 in the case under private complaint for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penalty law. Reason: The Mandate-Immunity Commission has taken the principle that in the case of private prosecutors, it will propose to the Croatian Parliament a denial of approval. It should be noted that the criminal proceedings may continue after the term of office has expired, given that the limitation does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-02-0.u80425	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate, so we'll vote on that when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. and will be the first point of the Final Bill on Amendments of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, and the vote will be at 12 p.m. I wish you a pleasant rest of the afternoon. Session interrupted at 16.48 p.m.
