ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27179	Honorable MPs, respected MPs, good morning. Before we move on to the usual work, he asked that we all remember together our colleague, our friend, Professor Dr. Miroslav Tuđman, a man who was the most experienced among us, a man who had participated in the creation of the Croatian state since the 1990s, Croatian institutions, one of the founders of the Croatian intelligence system, our colleague who had been elected 4 times in the Croatian Parliament in 2011, 2015, 2016 and 2020, a representative who was always correct, tolerant, who pointed out professional debates, reasoned debates, was a representative who respected others, different, who was never rude in his sentences and whom we all respected, were from HDZ, and it seems to me that colleagues from other parties, from the opposition, respected Miroslav Tudjman. Behind the image of the intellectual and the scientist and the man who taught at the university, there was actually a very good, well-intentioned man, a gentle man, and as such we will remember him. Here are these candles and roses to remind us of our friend, our colleague, Professor Dr. Mr. Miroslav Tudjman, and I beg you now to honor our dear friend and colleague with a moment of silence. - A moment of silence - May it be his eternal glory and thank him. On behalf of all MPs and MPs, the Tudjman family, I am sorry, and in these difficult moments, we want to tell them that we are with them. The Professor's Communion. Tuđmana will be at the Little Council on Friday at 10:00 p.m., but given the epidemiological conditions, please choose one representative of the club of representatives from each political option in a dignified manner and here in the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will also have to agree on the amendment of the Government to the proposal for a decision to declare the Republic of Croatia's IGP in the Adriatic Sea, because the Government has submitted the amendment after the debate is concluded and we will have a debate on amendments to the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs to the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members of the working bodies. The amendments are submitted for the purpose of harmonising the date of entry into force with the date of voting on those acts. So we have to agree to the amendments tabled like this, to discuss them, do you agree? If you are, colleague Zekanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27180	I don't understand, will you explain it to us, then will we have another debate in Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27181	Well, we have to, it's a formality, we're just changing dates because it was planned until February 1st, so today we're going to discuss it at the end of the day, right? Thank you very much. I find that then we agree to hold a debate on amendments and vote when the conditions are met. They will now address us as the eighth, dear colleague Michel Jaksic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27243	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon, nice greeting to everyone. In the past few days, following the Croatian public and the media, listening to the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Andrej Plenkovic, we can freely get the impression that we live in a fantastic, decorated, excellent country with excellent results in all fields of life in the Republic of Croatia and everything would be perfect if there were no opposition. That there is no opposition that does not love this country, which does not want this country, never wanted it, knowingly works against the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Moreover, it would be possible to read if there were no opposition, so that the Puljasic case would not happen, so that the Zinic case would not happen because it must have made an opposition in the background. I suppose that opposition also put the word “What Would You Be? ” in the mouth of Zark Tušek. Of course it is not, but what deeply saddens me, what this model "What would you be?" decided to take over our Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. And on the subject of Podravka, which I'm going to talk about today, and I think I have an absolute right because regardless of the years, the internship, the experience, I'm sure I know a lot more about this subject than all those people who have been back 10, 15, 20 years deciding on the fate of a company whose history is 70 years long. For 70 years, Podravka is a company that precedes its innovation, which is ahead of its results, a company that is in Croatia, in which there was reportedly no yogurt at the time, because nothing was good, designed by Vegeta, who today is one of the largest Croatian brands, a company that in the 1980s preceded with its campaigns that were measurable with American marketing campaigns, a company that also planted its backs for the Croatian Army in the Homeland War, while some were getting rich and gathering the first millions, Podravka daily transferred its goods to the battlefield and a company that has enormous importance for the social, sports and of course, economic life of one end, our entire Croatia, and dared to say as a promoter, and much wider. This company is today a topic of classical political personneling. Staffing where in totally non-transparent conditions no one knows on which key the president of the administration is chosen, the only thing that is a mantra that lasts already several governments is important only that no one from Koprivnica or Koprivnica-Crysing County is because those who have created that company for 70 years, who have given up for the company, they know nothing about it, they don't know how to run it. The workers of Podravka who also in the Covid crisis showed us how important they were to feed this country, they knew how to make profits in tens of millions of kunas, but, well, they couldn't use that profit to develop the company because then they don't understand it anymore, then someone comes from the state and says, now that profit is taken for some more goals. And the question of all the questions is did the Prime Minister decide to take that supplement, when we say that Vegeta is something that interferes in everything, that gives everything a better taste, and that he simply decided to become the main political staff in all those companies where the state still has some ownership corner and what do we need pension funds then? The peace funds that today in Podravka hold 52% of the ownership, manage our property, and literally just wait for the moment of politics, from the prime minister and install someone to protect our pensions. Is this Croatia, is this the modern economy that we want in this Croatia? And doesn't it really matter who created the company, how much he worked at the firm, how much he knows about the company, how important this firm is for one end and generations of pensioners who created and gave up, because in the end it all comes down to the finger of the feather and someone's political staffing that pension funds usually do? And I am aware that even after this debate and future debate on this future political appointment in Podravka that will happen again today, the accusations that we don't understand it because we in Podravina only know how to create it, and then someone else takes it because both JANAF and everything that happened about Agrokor and what we hear today about HGK and Banja Luka University are great things that have created from Croatia a country richer than Denmark, but on behalf of the club, but also in the name of Koprivnica and Podravina, I can say that we will not stand in the fight for the interests of the people who work in Podravka today, but also for the interests and honor and pride. All the people who created Podravka. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27318	Now we're going to move to a discussion of clubs and independent representatives, taking a stand. The first will be the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27319	Here are many topics today in Croatian society, but there is one topic which is the topic of all topics, I have to talk about it today and I believe that fellow MPs already know what this is about. Those who do not know, I invite them to come to the club of Croatian Sovereigns today and sign the Proposal for a Life Protection Act. So it's a proposal for a law that is simple, logical, that protects life from its beginning, or conception. What I have to explain here is that some MPs obviously don't understand, anyone who signs this bill, he automatically becomes a proposing. This is not Hrvoje Zekanovic's law or Croatian sovereigns, all those who sign it have become proposings. I have to point out here that all Croatian sovereigns, four of us colleagues Pavliček, Sačić, Milanović-Litre have signed for now, also a colleague of Grmoja and Troskot and also a colleague of Hasanbegović. I call upon everyone else to sign, all those of you who have told me in time that you are for the protection of life without "but". Come and sign. What is important to emphasize, the scientific fact that life begins from conception, must be confirmed in the Croatian Parliament. Although it's scientific, the Constitutional Court said so. Only when we confirm it in the Croatian Parliament is then we have resolved this issue of all questions. I hope that soon we will see who really is for the protection of life and who only loves the voices of those who call for the protection of life. So, I'll repeat, come to the club of the Croatian Sovereigns and we'll visit you, here we start by collecting signatures. I hope there's enough of them. Here I still have to highlight a few things that are quite current, one thing is the protest that is about to take place in Ban J. Jelačić Square, the protest of entrepreneurs, and I notice one interesting thing, yesterday on Sljemen there were thousands of people, pushed, printed side by side, there were no stamps, there were no cops. Today there are police in the square, the strong forces of the MUP are watching to avoid violating epidemiological measures. We are the state of double standards, we are the state where the government of the Republic of Croatia and the MUP headed by Minister Bozinovic does as it suits Mr Plenkovic. It is fantastic that just today, when there is a protest in the square, Gundulić's street is closed, one fantastic coincidence that speaks in fact of a single streak between Mr Bandic and Mr Plenkovic. Dear colleagues and colleagues I invite you to support the entrepreneurs and tell them that you are not alone, we understand why you are gathered here because there is no logic. It doesn't make sense that in BiH, which is similar to the epidemiological situation, or much better than us cafes and restaurants work without working in Croatia. It doesn't make sense that there are 5,000 people stuck together on Sljemen, while several people can't sit on the terrace of the cafe. That's what's illogical. I know it's not wise to point out a few subjects in free speech, but here's not much opportunity, I don't really have much time to say about everything, so I'm going to point out another topic here, and it's a law that comes very quickly in the debate more precisely tomorrow that's the Law on Electronic Media. Therefore, it is a dangerous law that will obviously try to introduce censorship into the Croatian public space, i.e. primarily on social networks. What's interesting to me here is no one's commenting or almost anyone, some portals are here, I have to say, one news coming from America. With the new Biden administration, which is modern and advanced, unlike one screw-up, the backward Trump administrations are coming up some new, some new winds are starting to blow. So, after a brief procedure, many Christian organizations were declared extremist, and the talk of religion on social networks was declared a hate speech. Is this what is being prepared in Croatia, as Mr. Biden and we in Croatia have a globalist for the boss, Mr. Plenkovic, I think that's the scenario. Therefore, Croatian sovereigns will oppose the adoption of such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27375	Let's move on, now it's the Green-left bloc's club and respected counterpart Rada Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27376	Mr. President-in-Office of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, the pandemic's violence knows neither the frontier nor the race, nor the faith, nor the class difference. For a sure vaccine against it, neither the world laboratories nor the state are competing. Lavina's application against sexual abuse now initiated by women began with the struggle of their predecessors often in silence with the support of only women associations or lawyers for gender equality and various initiatives. Women have just been encouraged by other women's statements about sexual abuse even when thugs in drawers held a gun as held by Damir Skaro, president of the Siget Auto Club, otherwise a former HDZ parliamentary representative. Of course, and now the trial is closed to the public because it's about criminal acts of rape and sexual harassment even though it's certainly the lawyer who asked the victim to testify again. Retraumatics aren't new to the victims, and that's why we're looking for additional security for the victims. At the end of last year, just as you know, because of the lack of proper legal frameworks of 17 women, 14 permanent employees and 3 former Croatian employers' associations have also reported Mr. Jakelic for both sexual harassment and rape and the verdict was made in a way that three months have passed for deadline applications even though women have been instructed to sue privately because they have recognised the elements. Every day, therefore, there is a growing number of applications for sexual violence at our universities not only in Zagreb and Rijeka and others, but not only at the university but we have seen that, we have also seen the case of 4 police officers and there is a police officer and we have been fired, however, we have seen the public reacting and daily reducing sexual abuse and harassment and talking about inappropriate behaviour. What also worries about other institutions, which also worries about the rector Boras, worries that sexual harassment and abuse reported that our fine prime minister would highlight the words, so pri-vlavi-va-lo and that accomplices and co-responsible for violence in all institutions such as this. HRT. It also worries that women's demands go to a safe place for women, for commissions that could report sexual abuse and anonymously. Because the Dignity Commission, for example, For example, workers. on that same HTV set up the head man of television set up by the head man of that commission, so how do you think you can watch out for it then whether it can be kept anonymous women. Women won't report unless there's a tool, so women can report it anonymously. There's something right, and there's a law on the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, and that's called a burden of evidence. The burden of evidence doesn't have to be on the woman and we've seen in anonymous reports when 6 anonymous women report it, so it's up to someone else to decide whether it's relevant facts that are inside or not. As long as there's no safe place, as long as there's no place for women to feel safe to sign up, as long as there's as much as there is a statement from TV yesterday that just now that the greatest ratings that anyone wants these women to want to change the administration of television. I'm going back to the HUP case. Women, 17 women have been charged with terrorist activity in connection with the replacement of the HUP administration. So, when women organized something or individually, probably, there, those women who reported sexual harassment and sexual abuse, so they work against public television, instead of providing public television with a place where women would feel safe, and that space exists, so no one knows that this same Assembly in 2018 brought the Protocol on the treatment of cases of sexual violence. The Protocol makes it clear what needs to be ensured that women feel safe. We must give them this, as we must give them the opportunity to, for legal changes, such as her, about the age of sexual violence. There is no statute of violence against women.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27423	Let's move on, fifth debate, National Movement Representatives Club, respected colleague Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27424	Thank you, my dear. Offered by frequent accusations by ruling in this House of Commons on account of our opposition, that we did not get enough votes in the previous parliamentary elections and therefore do not have electoral legitimacy or the trust of the people, I have given myself the effort and found the official results of the elections on the DIP pages. Although this has been said after the parliamentary elections themselves, I believe that some things and data should be clearly repeated in order to reach the ears of as many citizens of our country as possible. The analysis of the election results suggests that in Croatia and possibly in the world, we have a precedent. The ruling rule with only 45% of the total vote, while the opposition won 55% of the vote in the previous parliamentary elections. In other words, the opposition received as much as 156,436 votes more than they had received at the moment. Croatian Election Law is unfair to the majority people because it gives too much priority to national minorities, which is an exception throughout the EU, so for example, for selecting one MP of the Roma minority or, for example, the Italian minority, there are enough hundreds of voters while the Croatian national representative needs up to 40,000. It opposes the Constitution, which states that Croatian citizens are in everything equal. Legitimity is a political support given by citizens to a political party or coalition in democratic elections of free will. The won votes and parliamentary mandates should be won in a free, equal election campaign in a democratic and transparent election process. It also means that the majority in the electoral body voluntarily recognises and accepts the authority of the government because they believe that it is based on moral, legal and political values. Democratic electoral legitimacy involves not only the number of voters received but also the actual democratic electoral process. And as it is known in the elections in Croatia, the government and the real opposition in the election campaign and the election process are not media and financial equality. The state and public administration are not neutral in this, the Public Opinion Examining Agency influences the electoral body according to the interests of the ruling party, thus affecting the results of the elections while public television in the election campaign is a powerful propaganda asset of the ruling party. So do we ask ourselves, by right from day to day, is this power without the legitimacy and support of most people? What is the legitimacy of the government chosen by less than one-sixth of all voters or voters? All of these data and indicators show that the government in Croatia does not have democratic legitimacy, it is opposed to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and does not stem from the democratically qualified majority of the people and therefore does not belong to the people but belongs to a political elite that is without legitimacy or political support for the democratically qualified majority in the electoral body. Since college, students are learning about three types of illegal authorities of usurpation, dictatorship and tyranny. However, as such elections were held in Croatia under this political qualification and truly undemocratic electoral legitimacy, current power and its elites, and what else but usurperants, and the political order is not democracy but the usurpation of political, economic and human and civil rights and the freedom of the vast majority of voters. I therefore question constitutional experts as well as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, if you believe that this autocratic and non-democratic government has the right to make political decisions requiring a qualified democratic majority of the votes cast in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27495	We're going to the 9th debate, and now she's going to speak to a respected colleague, Dalia Oreskovic, on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27496	Your Honor. Despite all its efforts to turn the entire state into a Borg, Andrej Plenkovic is losing control because there are more and more of those who are willing to fight for this country to change. Not just two narrators, not just opposition MPs, the citizens began to disobey precisely because this authority remained deaf to all their needs and problems. We lost generations of disappointed people who left because they didn't want to be obedient to incompetent politicians. They couldn't fit into a system that requires them to become party arrests to succeed in life. It is difficult in 5 minutes to sum up all the misery of our reality, from the fact that Damir Boras is the rector of Zagreb University until the power of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest is lifted. In the context of our support for today’s protest, however, something is being set aside. And this is a message that a smart man has no reason to return to a country in which the National Development Strategy was prepared by a compromised former Borg minister and Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic. The same to Martin Dalic after the rehabilitation, the prime minister will now install for the head of Podravka despite funds and other private owners carrying 75% of the ownership structure. What is the power and role of the state in the two-thirds private company is seen from the Vegeta cover on which the prime minister's character is printed. Podravka prepared the cover for his visit. Anti-candidate Martini Dalic was Luka Barilovic, the head of the HGK whose prime minister and his political caste are so eager to defend. The countries we've become under HDZ rule, we have a duty to resist. The justices that amnesty compromised politicians do not serve the interests of justice and justice. A country in which the prime minister determines who will be the director of companies that are privately owned, has no free market. The HGK does not serve the interests of the economy but is the political prey of the HDZ. Because of this Chamber, the prime minister of the last days in uncontrollable anger insults and demeans the opposition and threatens her somewhat. He, the Prime Minister, who under the constitution is not in charge of the HS but is subordinate to me, dares to say that he will not forgive the opposition and will not forgive her for refusing to participate in the vote last week at a time when the ruling did not have a quorum. The prime minister is actually angry that the opposition has shown him disobedience. And it's not his first time. Sam reminded himself these days that he had called opposition MPs for consultations before the HS even established itself. I was the first to publicly reject it, and then, from their already announced arrival, the others, fortunately, gave up. After all the rejected opposition proposals and amendments, are you now finally aware that Andrej Plenkovic never called on anyone to cooperate and dialogue, he called to ensure obedience or, if necessary, to buy obedience, and the opposition that is obedient or bought is no longer an opposition but a parasite in power? To the conceited Prime Minister, the opposition is required to obey the constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia, not you. By insisting that the discussed law abolishing mandatory HGK membership be put to the vote and leaving the assembly when the ruling refuses to comply with the opposition requirement, the opposition has shown that, for its values, for its views and for its political and programme objectives, it is fighting. Well, we're not all in this congregation of people with no attitude and no courage, we're not all Dario Hrebak. Exiting the assembly was an act of defending the institution's dignity and the role an opposition in a democratic society must play. The amount of the prime minister's anger, as well as his supremacy, has surpassed only the amount of his presence in the media. And now to express the prime minister's words, the way he tried to show the opposition's move and all the lies that the prime minister in public manipulates are below each level, his words at the bottom. Croatia is not 30. had a National Development Strategy. A week of differences in voting really doesn't change anything, and even when we finally adopt this sad document prepared by the government, what hope do we have on the basis of this strategy? That strategy is a hollow story. And not even the IGP announcement that has been waiting for decades to bring any major twist, not just in a week doesn't bring it at all. And as for the restoration, it will not and cannot go even when the law is passed because the conditions are not prepared for it. Then why all the Prime Minister's words? To cause fear because in fear, people are obedient, not only his representatives, not just those turnovers from the ruling majority, Andrej Plenkovic wants to be citizens in fear I'm glad we've said enough of that self-will today. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27589	Thank you very much. Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Branko Bacic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27590	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that I've been waiting for nine clubs, nine clubs that came out this morning, and I expected them to say that at least one club in HS would look back on a shameful event that took place on Saturday, January 30, 2021. I expected it from those parties and their clubs here in the assembly that say they are sovereigns, that they advocate independence, the safety of Croatia to this extent, so that our borders can be directed by the military because they care that Croatia is safe, that no one can enter Croatia, especially in a way that violates the regulations and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. But we have witnessed that one, a shameful act took place on Saturday, that four Italian euro-parliamentaries of the Socialists tried to cross the border of the Republic of Croatia where there is no border crossing and thus violate the laws of the Republic of Croatia and, most importantly, to try at EU level, to discredit both the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian police. It is regrettable that the attempt by Europarliamentaries who wanted to discredit Croatia was made in agreement with the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, with the SDP. So the question arises whose national interests are protected by the SDP when it comes to sovereignty and independence and security of the Republic of Croatia? I was expecting to say that at least one of the opposition clubs that advocates total sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia will look at it. But there was no question about it as you saw it. And the other thing, the other topic I'm going to look at is a no less embarrassing event that took place on Friday when the opposition in the Croatian media space, in the Croatian public, wanted to show that she cared deeply about the reorganisation of the HGK reform, so behind the cover of the law, they knew that the ruling majority, namely HDZ, because of the severe illness of one of their MPs had no quorum, tried to obtain cheap political points. But to make it clear to the Croatian public what kind of reform it is when it comes to HGK, I will show it so let Croatian citizens see what kind of reform it is, which is advocated by MOST and opposition in HS, HGK. Here, look at the MPs from the opposition if you haven't read and you don't know why you left this, this assembly. It's about 20 words that should mean reforming the Chamber of Commerce. Such an amendment to the laws that were expected to be discussed and voted on on Friday, not without an R from the reform, but only a problem would arise for Croatian entrepreneurs because 12 public powers stemming from the HGK Law without which Croatian entrepreneurs could not do business with such an opposition bill would only bring about an unseen situation, almost in an impossible situation, and you didn't care about reforming economic reform, because if you cared about reforming the Chamber of Commerce then the Proposer of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the HGK Law would try to write a serious amendment to the law that was said and very briefly, only 25 articles on the HGKK should be amended in order to enter into the real reform of the HGK. You didn't care, you cared about showing that the ruling majority couldn't pass laws in the Croatian Parliament and that was your only reason. I therefore believe that this morning's behaviour of clubs that did not look back on a single word of what happened on Saturday tried to discredit Croatia, in the same way and in the same light I see your performance that was below the level here in the Croatian Parliament when you left the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27591	Thank you very much, Comrade Bacic. We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I know they didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, but here's my colleague Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27592	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, I congratulate you on your visibility right at the beginning. Thank you very much. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] 238, it's an article that's been injured. After all, I suppose Mr. Bacic speaks wrongly when speaking on behalf of the opposition MPs, which means he's false or he thinks we're thinking something. We know very well what we think, the HGK should and must exist but not in this form, not as a cash register for a small group of obedients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27593	Comrade Dretar, you deserve a warning by your exposure because I and all the other 9 club representatives who spoke very harshly about the ruling majority, the HDZ, the partners, we didn't respond, no one reacted, so it would be nice if you didn't do such a thing either. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27594	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić was injured by an article. In 238, where he made a series of insults and falsehoods, about us being used by opposition representatives in the HGK Act of anyone's disease and whatever. No, you're in violation of procedure, one hour before you took the law off the vote. And that was incorrect, unfair, anti-business, non-legislative, you could vote as you wished for or against. The reason you took it off, that's the only reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27595	Buddy Bull, you're getting a warning, and secondly, I need to react. So, that law wasn't put to the vote at all, so I don't know how the information that something's been taken off. You keep repeating that thesis through the media that it was so that it was removed, it wasn't. He didn't get to vote at all. So, please let's at least talk about the facts when we're going with the injuries of Rules of Procedure and replicas, but well, we've been listening to it all before. We will now move to the 4th debate, which is the Club of Representatives of the Mosta and the esteemed colleague Ante Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27670	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In recent days, we have witnessed a kind of mirage of the mirage as a form of reality. Namely, the plagues of the ruling have sparked an attempt to abolish the HGK's mandatory memberships. The prime minister's Spanish foresight struck from all available artillery to ultimately point that it was the bridge's populism, which was prescribed by the employers' association. He forgets that this initiative was incorporated in 2016 into the Most Election Programme he accepted, agreeing then that the company tax should be abolished. He was followed by party soldiers, armed with the prime minister's phrases and coalition partners from the ruling majority. The culmination of the amnesty group occurred when Burilovici, Cacic, Hrebak and Minister Coric entered the village. This latter is not long ago on the abolition of mandatory members of HGK, I quote, "A country where there is no such institution with secure funding actually assumes the complete abandonment of the business sector or Croatian economy itself." I wonder what he serves as minister and what then serves his ministry? Mr. Cacic may have been affected by amnesia for years, so he added that in 2009, he made his position fully clear on HGK by calling it "parasite" or perhaps he experienced a kind of enlightenment in the government of Great Andrej. A colleague, Hrebak, hidden under the warm coat of the ruling, springs and refers to the Bridge's proposal as a macaravelist from the cannon: "All but systematic reform is demagogy and pulsism". So I wonder, where and what does that take individuals away from themselves and the loss of the habitat of the policy they were screaming about until yesterday? Dear Dario, my countryman Gotovina would tell you, "the government cannot live as if it were in Germany and the people as if they were in Zanzibar. The government must share the fate of its people otherwise has no credibility or politics or politicians." Mr. Burilovic knows what is inappropriate and thus performs, why, for example, would he comment on himself and what he has? He'd rather comment on the staff's decisions. Yet, he is encouraged to say that he is truly more than 50,000 kn but states that he has worked hard for 30 years. I wonder what 65,000 people are going to tell him about this, who are headed home from a robbery of power plants all over Dalmatia. Who, at more than 30 years of employment and 63 years of age, live at 1520 kn per month? Instead of these problems, they are mentioned in the logic of openness and overcrowding of shopping centres, public transport and at the same time in the logic of the closure of gyms and fitness centres and do not list any further. Since the headquarters hasn't defined the criteria for opening and closing for months now, we have every day a logic of the illogicalness of not justifying it. The amnesty and blatant group calls us the populists and demagogues for any initiative that we launch and then these same populist initiatives of Copernicus are implemented in legal legislation. What do you call them? As long as they call us, we're on our way. When there's silence around us. Then we should imagine ourselves above ourselves. The bridge has succeeded with the IGP, we have succeeded with the reform of the HGK, we will succeed in all that life in this Croatia will make for better and fairer, and that is out of opposition. At least we look forward to the fact that in the outlines of the past days, we have felt the amount of strength of this people who have raised their voice and all of this has resulted in a drop in the ruling and forced reforms of the HGK and the gradual abolition of mandatory membership fees. Expect that after the next HOK, more than 500 parafiscal duties remain, opposition initiatives on the same ones, but as long as those 54% who don't go to the polls stand at home, by then you will meet people digging through garbage cans and we will host ourselves under average salaries and pensions, looking forward to raising the base of 100 kn, waiting again for some new Swiss to devastate us and dissipate us to the end and welcome a system in which we will exist by counting crumbs and being happy that no one is beating us. What will remain of us then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27671	Thank you, colleague Kujundzic. Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27759	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In the course of bankruptcy proceedings, when a tragedy like this occurs in Sibenik, trade courts and the Ministry of Justice should be under red alert and analyze every detail of the procedure and draw certain conclusions and lessons. Because all the non-compliance of Croats in the declared new principles of the market economy can be seen precisely in the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings. The first thing that can be concluded is that it cannot be determined to move to competition, but to prepare, learn, explain, and above all, by taking responsibility. I took part in bankruptcy proceedings by representing employees and their claims. I studied the whole procedure under great stress caused by uncertainty and fear for the fate of people, so I feel invited to talk about it. The fundamental difference in the bankruptcy process before and after the 1990s is that before it is a fully protected debtor in the function of preserving jobs and then it is absolutely protected by a believer, a powerful man, a state, a bank. Because of the non-disclosure of how others do it, we have been grumbling in these procedures for 30 years with cosmetic changes in the law, destroying even those small parts of companies that could have survived on the market. We have never, ever given a chance to transform, through bankruptcy, a company of companies into an institution, a non-profit institution, a production or service cooperative run by employees who are willing to take responsibility for continuing their activities. We didn't give them the incentive to work and fight. We have never necessarily made an attempt at a pre-fashion settlement in which creditors, and they may be workers, face everything they lose because when everyone is ready to take a step back, an agreement and a continuation of activity can be expected in the requirements. However, in law, the possibility of a pre-fashion settlement exists but only as a possibility. Of course, it needs a pre-fashion settlement and a re-shuffle of the company, it needs to be managed, and it's always about taking responsibility. Because of our limitations in laws, but hope for both heads and not taking responsibility, we have a situation that 90% of the bankruptcy ends with the sale of the debtor's assets. This property is only worth the activity and the interest has a predator who destroys competition and wants to get the property at the lowest price. For something else, this property has the value of a square meter, a kilo of old iron and less. It's even worse when selling property is run by incompetent people and there are people sitting in religious councils with no experience, no powers, and there's a chance of flirting with real estate speculators. Personally, in the context of bankruptcy, I am not interested in whether someone is a believer or not, whether he is a good or a bad family man, I am only interested in whether he knows whether procedures, activities and its rules and whether he is correct and balanced towards the fact that people should work. It is no less important to know the relationship between the debtors who are complex, it should be changed and that the bankruptcy manager for his work is satisfied with the bankruptcy because then he becomes the manager. Of course, he as a person can have his own interest. In my case, this is not an ex-post mind, and I've talked about it in every debate about changes and additions to bankruptcy laws, and there are a lot of them. Finally, when citizens have guns, when justice is suspected, when more than 90% of bankruptcy is solved by the sale of debtors' assets, when creditors are protected and people's fates are decided, when procedures and decisions are so lifeless, emotions cannot be avoided as well as tragedies, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27798	We're going to the 6th debate of the IDS Representatives Club, respected colleague Katarina Nemet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27799	Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. In recent days, we have had opportunities to hear almost daily testimony from women who have suffered some form of sexual harassment or violence. The "I didn't ask for" campaign revealed numerous examples of violence against women in educational institutions, workplaces, streets. In addition to being a society facing shocking and painful testimony from victims of sexual violence, we are faced with infidelity and numerous ugly, offensive and malicious comments such as why she was silent, how she now remembered to talk, where she's been all these years, and yes, now she's just as upset as she is. It is precisely because of these primitive comments and the condemnation of its own environment and the good part of society that makes women silent because today it is obviously much more acceptable to be a predator than a victim. However, such primitive comments may in fact be an alarm to awaken awareness of various forms of sexual violence and harassment as well as to encourage the courage and willingness of women to discuss traumatic experiences of abuse. My colleagues and colleagues, a frightening number of women were in the situation, from students, actresses, singers, television audiences to intern doctors, politicians, journalists all those women were targeted by abusers, those who thought they were untouchable. There is no guarantee that anything like that will happen to any woman. Therefore, we need to realise that violence against women is not the woman's private problem; it is a global social policy problem. And violence must not be someone's private problem. As long as we have testimony, harassment and violence, and we look at it with a dose of doubt, while we label the victims, while we believe that something like this should remain between the victim and the bully, we gentlemen as a society have a problem. While women are silent and ashamed to report someone who humiliated their dignity because they are afraid of environmental reactions, because they fear the reaction of the bully himself as a society, we have a problem. That is why we need to find a way to teach those in which the world remains, our young ones the same quality of life in all areas, as well as in sexual education. Generations of young people must learn about sexual and reproductive health and sexuality at the most sensitive age of adulthood and sexual development through the education system. Discontinuation of such education results in a lack of understanding of yourself as a sexual being, infrequently in the way that sex is a shameful act that can certainly negatively affect the lives of that person as an individual, as well as society as a whole. Despite research and evidence that sexual education protects children and young people and benefits society as a whole, children and young people in Croatia in the 21st century unfortunately do not have access to sexual education within the education system. It is therefore commendable that a petition for the introduction of comprehensive sexual education at school as a mandatory teaching programme has been launched at the “Tell HR” portal initiative and with the support of 16 initiatives and associations. We must also mention a positive example of the establishment of a Youth Sexual Health Advisory Centre, which is held at seven locations in Istria. The programme is designed to improve the prevention of gender health of young people in Istria County, and includes promotion of gender equality, non-violence in relationships, the right to different sexual orientations without discrimination, pleasant and secure sexual experience without coercion. My colleagues and colleagues, just these examples where women decide to testify about the traumatic experience of abuse, show that they are ready to stop silence and are ready to talk about the violence they are experiencing, so it is up to the state to stop this silence and access the prevention of sexual violence by introducing compulsory sexual education at school. Therefore, women should be told that they are not guilty and are not alone and should be encouraged to talk about what they have experienced, not to encourage them to remain silent and patient, to put their painful experiences under the rug and predators to remain free and without any sanctioning, harass because they are simply able to do so. Violence must not be anyone's private problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27816	We're going to the third debate now. The independent representative, Karolina Vidovic Kristo, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u27817	Ladies and gentlemen. In Croatia, we are faced with the dramatic mistrust of Croatian citizens in state institutions. The reason for such a situation is that trust in institutions is possible only if the rules in society are equal for all, and that, of course, implies that the state institutions themselves and their representatives adhere to the law. On the contrary, they are ruling elites. In Croatia, we are witnessing daily violations of the law by the highest authorities and the non-sanctioning of these illegalities by the judiciary. It is sad and sad that all of this must be paid by Croatian citizens who are also victims of and unfair policies carried out by social powers. Here's an example of the functionality of the system, specifically the example of Germany and the parallel, brazen violation of the law in our homeland. Today's EU President-in-Office, Ursula von der Leyen, before becoming EU Commission President, was German Defence Minister. After a newspaper announced that the defence ministry paid too high bills to advisers, opposition deputies sought the amounts paid by the ministry to advisory companies. In a functional democratic state, a parliamentary inquiry must be answered immediately and unspeakably. As the amounts were high, the parliamentary opposition asked for an investigative commission that was then set up. Although Ursula von der Leyen is no longer a minister, she could not escape the hearing because the rule of law, as we know, has no alternative, and breaking the law or manipulating laws cannot be justified by anything. What Ursula von der Leyen or Angela Merkel must do, so would Andrej Plenkovic, but he does not. Mr Plenkovic is delivering contracts to the Croatian Parliament on the scandalous corruption project Krš-Padjene. I ask the government a question about the revenues of the Sheparovic Law Office, and they, as if they fell from Mars, answer that they can't give me profit data. That's what nobody asked them about. About the possible tax evasion of his secretary Tedeschi for more than 4 months, they have not given me an answer, they are violating the Company's Company Act, and they have been headlessly holding HEP without mentioning it for months. Late in the appointment of the Supervisory Board. This is part of evidence of a violation of the law by the government that neither the judiciary nor the so-called. social analysts, and unfortunately not the media. Their non-reaction is not an accident but a reflection of mutual protection in a joint corruption effort against Croatian citizens. How can it be justified that the DORH is hiding the criminal privatisation of Croatia's insurance for the 7th year, and the amount for which Croatian citizens are damaged is a minimum of 4 billion kuna. Although everything is documented and although the State Audit found that Croatia's privatisation of insurance is against the law, DORH and SDP-HDZ-SDSS powerful men hide the crime. But this corruption and anti-Croatian structure goes on. The man who committed this criminal takeover of Croatia by Adris, Damir Vandjelic, sets up the government to manage a billion, and the deep-seated state of Vandjelic prepares for the mayor of Zagreb. This illegal and... The method of rule is the cause of all injustices in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She is the cause of poverty among Croatian citizens. This insolentness of the ruling structure continues uninterrupted. Yesterday, it was announced that the leader of the Borg criminal group, Martina Dalic, will be the new chairman of the Podravka administration. Her unpunished work in the Borg group is now being rewarded. Matina Dalic's husband is also a member of the INA administration on behalf of the government. Is there any measure in this government's anti-European corruption and nepotist squadrons? Croatia has capable people, I know individuals who have absorbed the world's best universities, but they are not obedient and their ability is not wanted by the government. But without capable men, there is no progress and prosperity. Let's get back to square one. Why does Ursula von der Leyen and Angela Merkel have to go before the investigative committee and answer to the parliament? Because their legal order works, because all relevant social forces are responsible for their people. In some cases, Angela Merkel rejects an investigative commission where there are serious doubts about corruption, pressure from the media, political analysts, i.e. The whole social elite would be such that, in order to hide corruption, it would have to automatically step down. In Croatia, the judiciary is a service of power and the laws do not interest, and social analysts have contracts with state-owned companies, ministries, i.e. They sold their intellectual abilities for several silver coins. Croatia's ruling elites consider Croatia their prey to do what they want. However, ladies and gentlemen, there are no more strangers in Croatia. On the one hand, there is an insatiable and gramptuous elite for which there is no sanctity other than their hedonistic materialism, and on the other side is the majority of Croatia that this first group has brought to poverty and hopelessness. The ruling forgets one fact, and it says, the Croatian people knew how to get rid of more dangerous opponents, so they will get the strength and get rid of the corrupt elites. We will fight for Croatia in which the laws apply to everything equally and Croatia will be a just state to the satisfaction of the vast majority of Croatian citizens. And the current powers will have to be held accountable for all the evil they do to the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u29055	And the final point of tonight's session is: Selection, appointment and resolution. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs submitted an amendment to the 25 proposals for a decision. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure on amendments tabled like this, we agreed at the beginning of today's session. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs, Nada Murganic, to explain the amendments submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u29056	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs at its meeting adopted a proposal for a series of amendments to the proposals for Decisions appointing members of the HS Committee as well as members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the following reasons. Namely, in point 2. The decision laid down that the appointed members, hence the work and the external members, are to be entered into office on 1 February 2021. Since that proposal for a decision was not adopted at the vote on 29 January of this year, it is proposed that point 2 be adopted. Decisions shall be deleted, so far point 3. becomes point 2. In accordance with the abovementioned members of the Committee, they will take office on the date of their decision, not on the basis of the date of 1 February 2021. It's just kind of a technical thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u29057	Thank you, Your Honor. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation Only clubs can participate in the Rules of Procedure. Clubs aren't reported. I'm opening the debate, and I'm also concluding because there are no reports, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Good night. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights, first reading, P.Z. No. 61. Good night. The session was interrupted at 9:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31261	Let's move on, now we're starting work: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Carbons, first reading, P.Z.E. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation of the proposed bill, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31262	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, which is before you, deals with and regulates issues such as the public process of exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation, the creation of a stimulating environment for the exploration and exploitation of biothermal waters whose accumulated heat can be used for energy purposes, the storage of natural gas and the permanent disposal of carbon dioxide and the ban on mass hydraulic invoices. The reason for amending and supplementing the laws is, above all, in the need to bring national legislation into line with the EU acquis, thus improving transparency of the procedures implemented under this law and ensuring that the public is further involved in the procedures relating to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, geothermal waters for energy purposes and underground gas storage in the manner prescribed by the EU Directive. Directive 2014/52 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2011/92 on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment is therefore fully transposed. According to the Directive, environmental impacts must be taken into account at the earliest possible stage of the adoption of decisions on the project and environmental protection measures must be incorporated into the final decision and the public's days in the light of these amendments in the law. The law sets out the terms and definitions of the public and the public concerned. An obligation shall be introduced to publish a draft of certain acts relating to oil and mining projects and building permits for oil and mining facilities and whose component must be environmental protection measures and environmental monitoring programmes from the procedures carried out and the environmental impact assessment. The adoption of this law also provides public insight into certain conditions which give rise to the issuing of competent bodies for projects and building permits. All of this will be made publicly available on the network pages of the resolution ministry. It will also enable the public and the interested public to access the judiciary with regard to approvals for procedures issued under the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. It is clearly defined when procedures are implemented and related to the Nature Protection Act as well as procedures relating to the Environmental Protection Act and which are the types of projects where the implementation of procedures resulting from environmental protection and nature is necessary and expected. Since the Agency for Hydrocarbons has carried out preparatory actions for the single tendering process for research and exploitation, these amendments have established the Agency's commitment to prepare and deliver initiatives to amend and supplement spatial plans and before the publication of a single tendering procedure. The coordination of spatial planning documentation in cooperation with the authorities of the state administration responsible for spatial planning and the framework plan and the research and exploitation programmes of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia will remove the current congestion in the implementation of the projects following the approvals issued or concluded contracts on the exploration and division of hydrocarbon exploitation. In order to effectively use geothermal water energy, which is a renewable source and to speed up energy transition, the law laid down a clear legal framework for the parallel implementation of oil and mining works when they include different uses, such as hydrocarbons, geothermal water for energy purposes. This will allow the use of existing infrastructures, i.e. to maximise the use of existing facilities and to transition the use of hydrocarbons towards the use of geothermal water for energy purposes, but also to allow storage and permanent disposal of carbon dioxide. Therefore, these amendments to the law allow the new investor to assume the obligation to resuscitate in the event that, subject to an agreement with another investor, he wishes to take over an oil-mining facility, i.e. A well owned by that other investor. Rehabilitation of existing wells is one of the main premises of this law and further use for different purposes at the same time optimises the use of existing infrastructures and ensures their recovery afterwards. This amendment of the law also enables the establishment of a development society that can contribute to the development of renewable energy sources, but also to the development of other economic elements. The aim is to develop as much as possible the modular or cascade system of the use of geothermal water for the production of electricity, heat and agriculture to make use of their maximum and contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the development capacity for the permanent storage of carbon dioxide in geological structures and for the benefit of the entire community. These amendments follow the EU Commission's recommendation 2014/70 of 22 January 2014 on the minimum principles for hydrocarbon research and production and for the first time legislative changes to other European countries to step up and legally prevents massive fragmentation as a risky and dangerous activity. Finally, we believe that these amendments and amendments to the law contribute to the creation of a safe legal environment for investors, protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia, while at the same time creating a safe, clear and development environment for the implementation of sustainable oil and mining activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31263	You stay the secretary of state here because there's a replica. First up, buddy Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31264	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Sustainable development that we call upon and green policies in Croatia in the most beautiful and most preserved areas, such as Dinarids, Dinara Mountains, Velebit, the Croatian Government has also given to explore and in case of the discovery of hydrocarbons to be exploited by INA or I don't already know who, someone foreign investor. Is this sustainable development? Whether the largest pool of drinking water and the most beautiful mountains and the most preserved area of karst is so risked with this that you simply do not look at the interest of Croatia but are looking at the exclusive interest of getting foreign companies that have been handed over by the Croatian authorities in their hands anyway, which is Croatian, so that's ours. Where do you get the right and the right to give this sanctuary to anyone? Our mountain, which was very important in the Homeland War, for which we were killed, from Dinara to Velebit, was given to drill, explore, and in the interest of a stranger, in the interest of one who is not a people but who is suppressing this people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31265	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31266	Thank you for asking, that is, the replica. The Croatian Government is solely doing this job in the interest of the Croatian state and Croatian people, as you yourself have said, that means no permit is given in the area that is protected, no permit is given in the area in which it is prohibited. So in this area where you mention it, the permits are not given in the part that is protected, if any part of it is used, it is, it is only the part where it is allowed and where there is no threat to nature, the environment and any other interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31267	Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31268	Thank you. Here, Your Honor, I asked you this on the board, but also here on the tide, to explain why this amendment and the addition of the law does not follow the objectives of the National Development Strategy that we had the opportunity to hear here in the Parliament last week, which is that we will be the leaders in the green transformation. Namely, you haven't changed the primate.../incomprehensible/... hydrocarbons above renewable energy sources. In particular, one of the reasons for removing the permission to explore geothermal potentials is that if they interfere or could interfere with the exploitation of hydrocarbons. So it's clear that we're still giving priority to fossil fuels. Please explain to us why and do you intend to correct it until the second reading?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31269	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31270	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. As for this debate that we had on the board, given that this bill detailed the potential of this, more investors in one area, and when it comes to hydrocarbons and geothermal, and since this law is otherwise quite standardized because of the sensitivity of the whole issue and because of the great interest of the public, this provision remains under the old law. So, we absolutely agree with you, we will consider between 2 readings and I suppose there will be no obstacle to erasing this provision, and as far as our commitment as the country is concerned, that we are absolutely committed to renewable sources, not fossil and other situations, that is clear, according to the objectives we have set in all of our strategic documents and states that are now on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31271	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31272	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. I believe the Resort Ministry is running a register of the number of fields of exploitation. Do you have any recent data on the number of these hydrocarbon exploitation fields? I found the last information that we have in Croatia 57 on land and 3 on the sea. Given the impact and mine suspected areas and these seismological features, so recent earthquakes, have you made any revisions regarding the number? So what's the number and considering the impact of the earthquake? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31273	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31274	Thank you. It is the number that is in the records and in the registers of the Agency for Hydrocarbons, this, there is no need for revision, except for the need for day-to-day control and at the level of what the State Inspectorate is in accordance with their powers and oil mining engineers control. So, regular controls are by the competent authorities and by the agency when it comes to major accidents and ours, our big-accident commission, so what, for now, is a regular state of affairs, and we haven't noticed any additional problems in the functioning of existing facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31275	Comrades of Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31276	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, you said that this law provides for both when and when procedures are in motion, so I would ask you once more, as I said on the board, to reconsider the article. 19th in which it says that "the holders of the spatial plan shall initiate the process of harmonising the surface for the exploitation of spatial plans no later than 8 days from the Agency's request", when we know that the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction provides for an article. In 78, to make or amend and supplement the spatial plan is initiated on the basis of a decision by the representative body, meaning the city council or municipal council, 8 days is too short to prepare the decision, to send to the city council or municipal council and to adopt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31277	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31278	Thank you. I would agree with you that if we had decided yesterday in the debate that between the two readings we would have removed from the law because we simply have no reason to doubt that when the agency starts the initiative that local self-government will, in accordance with the law and the deadlines that every local self-government has if it has a specific this perhaps shorter someone longer term, do it in, in that part of time. We are aware of the fact that no activity when it comes to spatial planning in this law and generally this activity cannot go unless there is support for local and regional self-government according to such projects, means without the support of local and regional self-government in the spatial planning of these projects, there is no and here we agree with you that we will correct it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31279	Comrade Totgergeli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31280	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary, the Agreements on research and division and exploitation of the division of hydrocarbons on land for 5 research spaces were signed in 2016. Taking into account the obligation to keep the confidentiality of information, tell us what you can, at what stage are these investigations or are they expected to be exploited soon?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31281	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31282	Thank you. Based on this law, as you know, a lot of concessions have been awarded on several occasions, and it is certain that there are, as far as I have information, two findings that have not yet been verified and are expected to be produced in due course, and these are gas. For your information, I can say that, on the basis of this law, since this law exists, local self-government has been in the name of compensation and local self-government of the state budget, on behalf of the compensation and various fees that have been made under this law, this so far has been adopted 55 million kuna, meaning, and has not yet begun production by the basis of this law or these new concessions that have been made, so we expect it to be very certain and to start.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31283	Comrade Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31284	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, you have concluded that this law clearly defines the procedures and procedures of all mining activities, which contributes to the creation of a safe legal framework for future investors, while protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia as well. In the new draft proposal for a Split-Dalmatia County spatial plan, there is an article that just determines the hydrocarbon exploration areas according to the Framework Plan and the hydrocarbon research and exploitation programme on the Adriatic of the Republic of Croatia has been defined by 9 research spaces. I wonder if these investigations can be conducted if the locals also conclude that it is not in their interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31285	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31286	No research can be done unless it is first in accordance with the law and, among other things, with a spatial plan. As for the Split-Dalmatia County, here in previous discussions when we talked about hydrocarbons some time ago there was a speech on why certain fields were all over the county, and then we explained that regardless of what the fields were intended throughout the county that 15 km from the last protected area of the last coast could not be explored or exploited. We now delivered this in graphic terms in October of last year to the Split-Dalmatia County, and we expect that in maps and implementing provisions of the Split-Dalmatia County spatial plan, it will be written all the way, regardless of what was previously drawn, but not allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31287	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31288	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the subject of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation. I was not satisfied in the replica and response of the secretary of state where the breach was threatened and this most beautiful, most beautiful natural pearl of Europe are Dinaridi, it is in the area of 8 counties. When I see Dinar drills and it's allowed to be investigated after that if it's 5. finds that it will be exploited for 20 years. that these platforms will be on Dinara, Velebit, with what we have the greatest potential to protect and national resources, these are drinking waters that are key resources and that have already begun to be on the stock market as well as oil, that is our potential that we must protect and defend, and in no way simply prescribe regulations that fit us and bring about how we fit. If we are talking about sustainable development then we must do everything to protect our key resource in the debris, which is water, not harmful research, drilling, hydrocarbon extraction, oil and other projects. If we narrow this whole story down to giving it to foreign investors because it was already handed over to foreign investors in 2019, then we did not protect our pearls and our resources, economic resources, our water, our tourist pearl as well as our Adriatic, 9 research fields in the Split-Dalmatia County that will scare the platforms and we are a tourist country, so that someone has a huge profit and profit but no Croatian people. Harmful projects such as drilling our junk are the most morbid thing that can be done towards the Croatian people and the future of our children on both the Adriatic and here. So I don't accept harmful projects at all, and your argument is no good because we don't protect the key resource, our waste where drinking water is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31289	I'll grant Stanka. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 11 o'clock and 5 minutes. It's 10.53 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.07 HOURS]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31290	Dear Secretary of State, first of all, I'd like to know why the minister isn't here today when it comes to such an important law. And the second question arises from your explanation why we are going to amend this law and then, firstly, it says that the European Commission delivered us on March 7, 2019, two years ago. noting that we are not in line with European directives as regards the public and the interested public. So I'd be interested in what happened in 2019 until today, what happened without the public having any insight? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31291	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31292	Thank you. Since 2019, everything that has happened has been made public and the public has had insight. And the reason why the law has lasted this long, or its consent and procedures other than covid, is simply such a kind of law in which prior consent, before consulting and consent to the first, to the sending of a law for first reading to the government simply takes a long time and there is only proof that enough factors and bodies of the state administration have been involved and therefore we think that the bill is fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31293	Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31294	Dear Secretary of State, tell the Croatian public what it is to break up or to break up?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31295	I'm not a geological profession, but here's my colleagues and biologists told me, so that would be what we've banned, so mass fractures would be an impression of huge amounts of water, meaning over 10,000 cc's of water to improve the depletion, or that's mean dangerous situations, because it's a very dangerous impression of water that could be disrupting certain natural flows in, in the rocks, and clearly that we as the country that this one has quite sensitivity to the environment this one, we've banned because in the last decade there hasn't been any such situations that someone in Croatia has done it in such a way, and then we're still, that's why we've banned it from anyone's thought of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31296	Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31297	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Secretary of State, you've explained this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Carbon Research and Exploitation. I just wanted to point out that the geothermal potential, as well as the supply of our oil and gas, is clearly defined by the research of our INA which clearly defined it. The geothermal potential that today is not used in sufficient quantities will be clearly defined by this law and the possibilities. I have only one fear, and it's an environmental impact study, yes or no, or it just takes an assessment of the need to study the environment because this will further complicate a little things, it's long waiting and it's always nature guards who find butterflies, frogs and everything else that will be compromised through their studies or their explanations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31298	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31299	Thank you. We simply have to stick to the law and order, and that is that for these projects we have to give to this body, give the possibility to assess whether we need to study for the environment or not and simply in all such projects not only geothermal but in all renewable energy projects we have to do it and we need to stress it more and more because it is simply a question to be or not to be, and simply there is no answer to you but what I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31300	Comrade Stromar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, I don't think anyone has ever spoken of one important segment in this amendment to the law, and you mentioned it at first, and that's kind of transparency. It will be much easier to get all the information, we will be able to see all the processes, we will be able to see all the solutions, and in the end we will be much easier to be informed about everything that is going on in our underground, in our research work, and become exploits, so here I welcome that part and that transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31302	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31303	Thank you. Clearly, the basic intensity of the law is that it means complete procedure, we were now transparent according to the practice so far, so the building permits were published, all the data that could otherwise be published, and they weren't secret, and now it's going to mean every small step in the process of obtaining permits, concessions and everything else that's clear this good for, for the sake of the public, and finally for our business, so that in case some kind of this, some kind of intervention that might possibly be necessary and removals or changes, we'll do it right now, and not later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31304	Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31305	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I have a question, one personal question for you. You didn't answer first why there was no minister, you forgot about it, but good doesn't matter. I know you're coming from the island of Hvar which is not only a notion of Croatian tourism but a notion of world tourism, that there is no minister and has sent you into the fire to defend this law that could potentially endanger Croatian tourism, especially in Hvar, so I ask you if you've prepared yourself, have you personally prepared for the B variant if there's any tragedy, don't give the God of Hawar, you can't make it clear to you, do you have any real estate in Split, in Zagreb, in BiH, so I'm thinking for your sake because I don't know how you'll get to Hvar if there's any kind of chaos that will destroy tourism, you there more
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31306	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31307	Thanks for asking. As for my arrival in Hvar, I was a person of the grat, and I will be still, that is for sure, there I happened to be three times the head of a municipality, something there and I left some clues, some leads, some private ones, and I live there, and as far as the dangers for Hvar and generally for our seas, I see no danger, because there are no papers that, no research and any processes that would be happening in the Croatian Adriatic, are neither intended nor will we do them, at least while this administration is now in operation so that I am not afraid of it, I am only afraid that maybe what the Montenegrins and these down our southern neighbours are doing, that perhaps there would be no harm but we.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31308	And the last replica, colleague Kolarek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31309	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary. So since I come from the middle where I'm going to say in the final stage of preparing for the construction of advanced geothermal energy with carbon interpellation compounds with which the investor has received the European Commission's Innovation Award, will this law and amendments to the law, I believe it will, and to what extent speed up our administration that investors get their licenses as quickly and better as possible because it's important for both the investment and the local self-government unit so that as soon as possible they can achieve that concession fee they already get? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31310	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31311	Thank you. This law will definitely further clarify and resolve all procedures when it comes to geothermal waters. Clearly in this work where we have foreseen spatial planning and the procedures that we are going to do there, they will be useful for each project to live long before it was a case so far and then it goes in the direction of this question that then practically both before and local self-government comes into the situation that the project works and that eventually it has some benefits other than the wider social community and the local auditor himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31312	I thank the Secretary of State, we've come to an end with replicas, so I'd like to ask the committee's rapporteurs if they would take the floor? If not, then I open the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and counterparts of Hrvoja Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31313	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed president of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates. We're talking about hydrocarbon exploitation, I asked you in the replica, you answered me, but here I am going to ask you again, I'm going to fix you up a little bit. So the question was simple, what is it, a fractionation or a fracture? This is a concept that I haven't been familiar with in a while, but it's been talking about lately. So it's one method where the soil, so the hydrocarbons finds, means natural gas or oil, when they drain to one extent, then inject, pump water, some kind of chemical, pressure emulsion. And now you've answered me that we've banned it, I've really tried to find it in this bill, but I haven't found it, correct me, find me where it's forbidden in this bill, so I'm going to say I'm wrong, I haven't found it. That's the first thing. Another thing that I would still deny you when you break or break up, we have more methods, we have this hydraulic method that is very dangerous but we have some other methods that are still used in Croatia. And you know it. So, in Croatia's oil and natural gas beds, water is injected, thousands of cc's of some emulsion, chemicals to drain oil and gas from the underground. Now that's not a problem, these are methods, but there is one scientifically proven link between these processes and seismic activities. I'm not a conspiracy theorist, I'm for scientific approach but I'm gonna talk about everything. We have an interesting coincidence, which is exactly the area that recently hit a severe earthquake, a space that is very close to the hydrocarbon field. Very close. Maybe it's an accident, maybe it's not. But I call on you as a resolute secretary of state to investigate and examine this and to remove any possibility of affecting the seismic activity of hydrocarbon exploitation. If there is even a minimum of danger, let's ban it or disable it because look at a little bit of what was done in the Americans, especially I think it's about Oklahoma di were some earthquakes and so, they found a scientifically proven connection between these processes. Here I invite you to examine it if there are mini possibilities, it should be banned, but the coincidences are interesting. Let's move on. We're talking about the exploitation of hydrocarbons, so here we are, we've probably never heard of Vermilion Zagreb Exploration, I think that's what it's called, then the American Aspect Holdings LLC, right, we've heard of Crodux who recently changed the owner and is no longer a Croatian owner but is a foreign owner and these are your companies that are exploiting hydrocarbons in Croatia today. So what Croatian citizens must understand, understand and remember is that today the exploitation of hydrocarbons in our country of Croatia is not done by Croatian companies but by foreigners. So, as we have at the wind power plants, we have already talked about this with the rest minister, foreign capital on Croatian soil, the Croatian air produces electricity, we give it a subsidy and then the electricity sold to Croatians, here we have the same situation, on Croatian ground in the Croatian underground, or from the Croatian underground, foreigners draw oil and natural gas and then the oil and natural gas sold to Croats and Croats. Why? First because we don't have our own oil company anymore. Our oil company is no longer Croatian, but is the headquarters where in the neighbouring state, in Budapest, INA is managed from there. We have some offices, but it's not Croatian anymore. On the other hand, we do not have the interest of the Croatian state to develop our companies, and we had these personnel and technology that would exploit oil and natural gas going to Croatia. The Croatian public here is just to let you know we have become a true dominant or colony in this one global world where everyone is working in Croatia what they want because this Croatian legislation allows them, the laws that we have voted here, not us sovereigns from the opposition and some other colleagues but by ruling. And I'm going to warn you of another thing you obviously forgot a little while ago, you said that the exploitation fields on the subject of Split-Dalmatia County are specifically, should not be 15km from protected natural areas, okay. And did you State Secretary see a map of protected natural areas? I have worked in that vault and I am responsible for saying that you in Split-Dalmatia County cannot find a single position because it can be located. You can't because you have 9 categories of protected natural areas 9 and significant landscapes and park forests and nature parks and strict reserves and national parks and those positions as far as I know, so we're talking plus, a very important thing. Two more moments, here's a little bit, so remember, you're going to have this problem. What about the ecological grid, is it covered by it? And the most important thing that I've pointed out here in HS multiple times, we will, in accordance with the European Commission's 2030 directive. We must protect 30% of our Adriatic. Your Honor, Secretary of State, until 2030. We'll have to protect 30% of the Adriatic. If we protect, and we have to protect, then there is really no least possibility that a field of exploitation can be made in Primorje Croatia from Savudrija to Prevlaka. So I think that there is one who has defined positions simply does not know about this regulation and that there will be problems, and let all those who have dealt with it pay attention to the ecological network of Natura, or to all protected natural areas that exist. Here, I'll do it. So I've warned you of three things, the problem of fractures or fractures, examine but not just superficially, but really whether there's a connection, if there's any connection, we really forbid it, but not like you said superficially. This bill does not define it. Another thing, try because it is your task, your job to have tomorrow Croatia own an oil company that will exploit us, not to be done by Americans, Canadians and the like, perhaps this is not market economy, but we sovereigns are somehow looking at Croatia's interest rather than some rules of market economy. And finally, when we're talking about locating research fields if you already said it couldn't be and that's the law 15km from a protected natural area then tell yourself we don't have a place to locate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31314	Now, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club, a respected colleague, Sandra Bencic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31315	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons does not, unfortunately, show that we are in 2021. and that last year we supported the European Green Plan and decided on a serious transition towards post-fossil society. Nothing in this law shows me that in the meantime in the National Development Strategy that says that Croatia will be the leader in the green transformation, what we wrote there, we have actually entered into the spirit and letter of this law. In my opinion, however, this law creates a framework for more investment in fossil fuel exploitation on deadlines exceeding 2050. In which we set ourselves up on a zero-net show. First of all, this law covers hydrocarbons and geothermal water in its basic text, so I am talking about the basic text adopted by this Assembly in 2018. Since we were not in the assembly at the time, we had no opportunity to oppose what we see as the first problem of this law, which is when we define the interest of the Republic of Croatia in art. 4. there has been a deep constitutional situation. According to the Water Act, geothermal as well as all other waters are generally good, so it is defined by the Water Act and therefore they are not and cannot be the object of real rights, so neither the rights of ownership. However, this law does not treat geothermal water as water but is treated as a mineral wealth in such a way that they are no longer in the general good regime but are in the public interest regime for the Republic of Croatia and owned by the Republic of Croatia, i.e. in the ownership or real legal regime. So, for us at the Green-Left bloc club, it's certainly problematic because we think that all the waters of the underground, the super-earth, regardless of their kind, should remain generally well and be out of the real regime. This is extremely important for the reasons of conservation, in fact water, as well as the authorities of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia over that wealth and over that resource. So, to repeat, general good is otherwise things are out of the way, but that doesn't mean that no one is exercising power over them, is ruling the Republic, but doing it, how? There is a duty under the Constitution to do, and the Law on Property, to exercise that authority as a good host, and in that case, if it is a general good, and we consider it to be a general good, we have to ask ourselves whether geothermal resources really behave as a good host. I'll give you an example. The largest geothermal power plant in the Republic of Croatia is owned by a private company GEOEN, owned by the owner, i.e. director, pardon, Dragan Jurilj. In 2019, the company made revenue of 101 million kuna, nearly 102 of which had only 39 million kuna of expenditure and 62 million kuna of profits. So this was achieved thanks, of course, to the subsidized electricity price where your average electricity price for this region on the stock market last year was around 40 euros per megawatt, the average incentive price for Croatian renewables was 120 euros per megawatt, and geothermal, specifically for this energy plant, at a much higher price, at 208 euros per megawatt. Well, it's no wonder that their profits are at the level of the bookies and the level of the law enforcement agencies. We have a trio fantasy, who shares the profit-and-income ratio of 60%. But it is not a profit that has been achieved by their added value, but rather a profit that has been achieved by raising money from the pockets of Croatian citizens who pay a far higher price of electricity precisely because they would get, therefore, 208 euros per megawatt while the usual price is 40. Why? Because Croatia, when signing contracts, or when our Government sign contracts and so allows and gives the status of a privileged electricity producer, does so in a way that their ransom price is guaranteed by 14 years. Now it's down to 12. So in these 14 years, this price and cost-effectiveness of technology in renewable energy sources has changed dramatically and is changing all the time. Today, renewables are at the level of cost-effectiveness of conventional fuels, we will give them 10 more years of minimum or 12 years of this kind of advantageous price, and we will draw that money out of citizens' pockets. Furthermore, the other problem with this law that we see is that it favors the exploitation of hydrocarbons compared to renewable sources like geothermal ones. So, for example, the reason for you to lift your geothermal research permit, let's imagine a community, that it's established a municipal enterprise, that it wants to use geothermal sources to produce energy for its citizens, that we have some normal model. What would happen? If, for example, they went into research, thus obstructing or jeopardizing the exploration of hydrocarbons in this research area or jeopardizing the future exploitation of hydrocarbons, so only if pro futuro could compromise the exploitation of hydrocarbons would they be abolished. So, clearly, fossil fuels are favored in relation to renewable energy sources, and I find that in 2021 it is inadmissible. So, this clearly shows the government's intention to favour the exploitation of hydrocarbons in decades to come instead of renewables, but we believe that we should go exactly the opposite, that this law should prescribe that a hydrocarbon exploration permit be abolished, if it turns out that they could interfere with the production of renewables. So let's go in the opposite direction, the one that we cited in the Development Strategy that we're going to go, which is through the green transformation towards post-fossil society. I also want to highlight another problem here, which is that the exploitation permits are given for 30 years. So we haven't changed that deadline. Today, in 2021, when you issue a permit for research and exploitation for 30 years, you are in 2051 2050 as a zero net of years. So a year of climate neutrality throughout the European continent. But this year we're issuing research and exploitation permits that will take longer. In five years until 2055, '56. What we're proposing is to think about whether we want such a policy or we want a really green transformation policy and let's determine that licenses are issued, for example, by 2040, so we're going to review the situation in 2040 and see what number of licenses we really need. Why am I saying that again? For reasons we're exposed to investment charges otherwise. Why are we putting ourselves on investment charges? Because we signed an international Treaty on the Energy Charter on which we've already been sued, sued by two companies, one of which is MOL, the other such a company is... from the Netherlands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The arbitration suits for the protection of their investment interests are in total, so only those two worth 3 billion kunas. So we're already at risk of losing 3 billion kunas because of the investor's interest and giving out every new permit we might have to lift for climate objectives, we're going to expose ourselves to billions more and billions of worth of lawsuits, so why are we doing this on purpose? Why don't we limit ourselves now to issuing permits until 2040 so we can, so that we can review and reduce their numbers then, and not put ourselves in a lawsuit situation? The key problem is in the concept of energy sector development, so instead of strengthening our own resources for renewable energy generation and keeping them publicly owned with the strengthening of civil energy and investment in household and residential energy production We don't put natural resources in, in private hands, so they charge us three times what they produce. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31316	The next debate on behalf of the promoter, Honorable Secretary of State Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. I am obliged for the Croatian public to refer to this previous exhibition, so to say that this law has not predicted anything about green transition absolutely according to my deep conviction is incorrect. So this law goes maximum in the direction of that, and that means carbon dioxide, geothermal water, and clearly all the procedures that are done are transparent and in accordance with the procedures that they are. To think that in 2050, the need for hydrocarbons would disappear, that's just a fairy tale. We're all aware that hydrocarbons will take 2050. And that clearly this, clearly in a reduced form, but they will need it. Croatia is in a situation where its supplies are very low and every, every new, new acquisition is welcome because it is primarily important for the sake of national security so that God forbid any situation happens we must have our own, our own story. As regards geothermal waters and as water, the Water Act is clearly stated that this, that water used, geothermal waters used for energy purposes do not fall into public well-being but go into this other regime, it is in law written down and logically that water that is geothermal is not the same resource as drinking water and water that springs because it is water that is practically non-renewable. If you used it and exhausted it it would no longer simply have its own meaning, so it is used continuously to take it out of the ground and return, it is not drinkable, it has certain ingredients in it and simply that it is quite different water it is actually water that is more like a mineral treasure than water itself. As for the 30-year-old, it's impossible for us to be in a situation where we are, because when we ask a private investor to invest, take a risk, eventually succeed or fail to go below the 30-year deadline. These are world deadlines, all around the world, all strategies, all serious plans are being done on the 30th, and so is this part. And to say that the EU will simply make us some kind of floor and cut the situation off and now you will say 2050. Croatia stays on the ice and you won't know what to do with it, it will have to pay for something, it is absolutely deplaced for me. The EU will not make such decisions without having any solution. The living example is Poland with its carbons and with all other situations and this transition that is constantly slowly through... legislation passes, compensates and solves this in all other ways. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in this situation, Croatia will certainly have some compensation from the EU, it will not be the only country that will have it in the EU because you know that both Bulgaria and Romania and other countries have hydrocarbons, so I have no fear. That fear in my mind is just like this right here now it's interesting to say it then people think that we don't know what we're doing here and what we're proposing because I don't accept such an explanation of our law as if it doesn't know what the right is doing and as if we're all being manipulated here. Simply this law is made in accordance with the rules of the profession, when it comes to hydrocarbons in accordance with all the possible standards that are envisaged, and when we talk about geothermal energy and the size of the investment in geothermal energy you need to know about the megawatt of installed geothermal energy capacities you need 48 million kuna investments. For a megawatt of the sun more than 10 kilowatts of this megawatt of 5 million, and for the wind more than 10 megawatts of 9.5 million. So when you're talking about winning, you have to tell the public that out of the get you're getting your loan back. You clearly need to make a profit in order to get your loan back. And in that show that you participated in on TV where it was clear that the investor explained what the loans were, how much they were, how much they were ultimately staying, it was real. These are Croatian companies that are registered in Croatia and on the topic that foreigners work for us here, these are all Croatian companies registered in Zagreb and any city in Croatia. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31318	Stay, there are many replicas, the first distinguished representative is Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, no one slows down what you said that we will be dependent on fossil fuels for a long time, that is simply so, but also the direction the EU is going is drawn and we must somehow fit in those directions that we, in principle and justified and no one here has anything against, however. Now, these reserves that we have are there, they're not going away, they're getting smaller, of course it's about renewable energy sources, and what's going on here is whether they're being used as energy or as raw materials for the chemical industry, and I think maybe it's a dilemma and some direction and a question that we need to think about in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31320	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31321	Thank you. It's logical that you said that that's how it's going to be in the future, that less and less fossil fuels will be used as energy, and more and more will be used in industry, it's clear, but it's a process that goes. They mean in our total energy consumption 50% participate in buildings, 30% traffic, industry 12.4, agriculture 3.5 and others and small percentages. So the more we succeed in construction, the less the fossil and all the other fuels will be spent. As far as we are in the traffic e-mobiles we introduce hydrogen and everything else will be so much, but it is a process that is ahead of us and fossil fuels will be clearly there, they will be to a lesser extent but the fact is that we can't say there are no fossil fuels now, and then what, Croatia will be alone the only country that will ban itself from having fossil fuels, it absolutely makes no sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31322	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31323	Thank you very much. Although the secretary of state did not receive answers regarding the violation and drilling of this national treasure and resources where drinking waters mention fossil fuels and the need for fossil fuels, at the same time shutting down the Sisak refinery where the people of Banovina are leaving, the company even collapsed in 2017. The prime minister announced a buy-in of INE's stake, so you're contradictory. Here you destroy the refinery in Sisak, people leave these parts we see the earthquake only revealed in what proportions, and at the same time announces the purchase of INE in 2017, the purchase of shares. What has been done so far with this promise made on Christmas 2017 by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31324	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31325	As for Dinarida, so when you were just talking about Dinaridi, it's a whole area called Dinaridi, but it's not Dinara Nature Park, it's not Dinara Mountain just have four blocks. These blocks that are not at all in the concession are 15, 16 and I think 13 are blocks where this, where this future nature park is, and this one that's now in the concession is block 14 and it's actually a area like where INA has characterized a totally non-invasive method of research from the air, and then eventually if something is found, it means that there's some kind of drilling. And as for the Sisak refinery, we in the national recovery plan predicted that a biorefinery in Sisak that would employ a minimum of 600 people would be a very good project for energy transition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31326	The next replica is the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31327	So let's first go a little bit about what you repeated the Director's words that he's out of it, out of that get you had to pay the loan. Well, I mean, if the company took out a loan she paid him out, it's registered to her as a financial expense so she refuses to profit, so that whole part doesn't stand. The second part, which I am interested in honestly, do you think that the strategy in which renewable energy sources as a resource and production from renewables is given to private investors, and also to what is left to private investors, is this strategy of full privatisation of energy production a good strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia, do you think that their interest is of long-term interest and coincides with the interests of the public of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31328	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31329	I graduated in economics and high school completed the financial accounting direction never repaying credit goes into financial breakdown but only interest goes to financial breakdown. So the return of the principal goes from profit and that topic, there's no debate. And as for the strategy for private companies to run energy companies, it is perfectly normal that they are private Croatian companies, registered in Croatia, according to Croatian rules, according to Croatian standards. Who owns them, I wish they were all Croatian owners, that they were literally Croatian citizens and people living in Croatia and they have everything, but this is the fact that we signed that we are a member of the EU, that we opted for a market economy and we simply have the owners we have. But the main thing is that we have these resources in Croatia, that these companies produce electricity in Croatia and that this is our production, Croatian production.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31330	Next replica, Honorable representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31331	Thank you. Secretary of State you come from the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development and the PR has made a very good decision that in what you write there first as you call it that the economy and sustainable development is then long, you've been talking about green development about all these beautiful visions, energy is not mentioned at all, only when you go deep inside then you get to where we are today, and that's that hydrocarbons are so important and that you here, of course, are giving us profit lectures, and profit has led us to all that now we have to figure out ways to deal with the climate crisis and disaster, and not to change how this is being said to the beneficiary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31332	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31333	You wouldn't agree that energy is just mentioned in the clues and we don't know what we're doing. About where profit has brought us in world terms is a topic that can be discussed. Our basic concept and our task as ministries and governments is to ensure the energy stability of the Republic of Croatia, to ensure independence as much as possible, it is difficult to be totally energy independent, to secure the diversification of the source, to provide a quality energy mix which, in the future, according to our 2030 plans, must have 63% of the renewable electricity to be totally renewable in 2050, that is our non-vision, that is our plan with clearly drawn parameters and financial resources from the National Recovery Plan which we will now withdraw to build the entire infrastructure for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31334	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31335	My dear secretary, I have two questions. The first question is, did you just talk about the profits of private companies? And the second question is the article. 19th which refers to the existing law. 44. where it is said that, if the proposed exploitation field for which an exploitation field is initiated does not enter within the planned, planned areas for exploitation, the process of alignment with the plan shall be initiated, with a spatial plan. Now, it writes the same way that this procedure is being initiated regardless of what the requirements have come to. Let us not forget that the previous spatial plan has passed between the rest and the public debate and the vote on the council or the city assembly. Does this mean that some conclusions are prejudged, or is there another scenario?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31336	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31337	We can't force local self-government to do something that she won't do, and it's certainly not an intensities of this law to force local self-government to do something that she won't do because as far as I know, it's not even possible by law, because it's a constitutional category that the state can't force local self-government to do what, to what is exclusively in her jurisdiction, only if we have two-thirds of the majority already have that procedure. So it's our instinct that we run and that local self-government, clearly if it thinks it's right, it does. If local self-government says they won't do it, then the project will not be there and so far no hydrocarbon exploitation project has happened in Croatia where local self-government has firmly said that it will not and that it has happened there, it simply does.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31338	And the last replica of Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31339	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my 2050 theme, hydrocarbon 2050. We'll need it both as raw materials and as energy. We as a state have decided that in 2050, electricity is mainly produced from renewable energy sources, mostly from the sun and wind. In order for it to be so when the wind blows or too much or too little and falls out of the system we have to have spare capacity in half an hour, within an hour during the day, but there will be a significant role that will play exactly the gas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31340	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31341	Yeah, we just have to have the power to regulate. Geothermal energy is one of the cleanest and best energy for regulation because it is constant and it can always be involved and jumped in. It is clear that the gas is still temporary as a transit fuel, but our future will be geothermal hydrogen, possibly bio mass, solar power plants and wind and through maximum digitisation and dispatching of simple balance through renewable sources. That's, that's the future we have to go to. This one cannot be expected to be perfect if huge money is not invested in the power grid, in all means of balancing, connecting with neighbours, creating a European energy market, and that is what our future is, and clearly until all of this is done in a renewable sense and the gas is also one of the options.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31342	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31343	Honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. The basic questions to be covered by this law are as stated in the argument itself and are not questionable. They shall be based on the harmonisation of the law with European directives on the basis of the European Commission’s notification of 7 March 2019. Whoever is doing this and making mistakes and, of course, when making mistakes should admit a mistake and correct it in the sense in which it is to be corrected. And this acceptance of who is doing this and making mistakes and that there are errors stemming from the great scope and legal regulation that needs to be brought into line with European, as well as the fact that living tissue regulations are changing both in European and in Croatian legislation. However, I must point out that it is not acceptable to propose harmonisations only for almost 2 years. of the European Commission’s notification of the need for their harmonisation. Furthermore, it also grieves the fact that the need to coordinate the lack of public and public interest in environmental impact assessment procedures, the approval of projects and building permits and finally deny the possibility of challenging these projects and building permits by both the same public and the interested public. So, the subject matter of the European Commission's remark and the need for harmonisation is lack of transparency and we can agree at least in the section of the assembly that I now see is nothing strange in our country. Again, despite the fact that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons allegedly introduces more transparency and more significant public involvement in the procedures regulated by law, the question of who is the law concerned is raised? Is it working to protect the one who exploits the space or the one whose space is exploited? And we will all agree, the space that is exploited is owned, so the space owned by the Republic of Croatia is the space of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I hope I'm right when I think it's clear to all of us that no single individual in power, not a single power in the leading positions of Croatian institutions should be allowed to dispose of the territory of the Republic of Croatia against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That is why I want to concentrate in this debate on the article regarding the availability of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and we are talking about art. On 19th of this proposal, the law amending and supplementing the laws on hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation. And now that law, that is, the article is determined as follows. The investor shall, with a request for an exploitation field, attach a certificate of compliance of the proposed exploitation field with a spatial plan from the authority of the State Administration responsible for spatial planning. Therefore, the authority of the State Administration shall issue a confirmation that the exploitation field which the investor would like to exploit is in accordance with the spatial plan. And who brings spatial plans to the Republic of Croatia? They are brought by units of local and regional self-government, and should have been brought by both the Republic of Croatia and the national level, however, is not able to bring it in today. How is it logical that the certificate of conformity of a particular project, of a particular operation and of a space exploitation procedure with a spatial plan determines or approves the issue of a state body which does not adopt that spatial plan, does not presuppose or adopt? And it wouldn't be controversial if the state brought in a state spatial plan so let it interpret it, let it say that everything is in line with that state spatial plan. Who are we to say he didn't, if the state brought him himself? However, this proposal for a law provides that if an exploitation field is proposed in accordance with a spatial plan, then the carbons Agency shall initiate the procedure in conformity and the manufacturer of the production, hence the units of local and regional self-government, shall initiate the procedure no later than 8 days after the application of the Agency in accordance with the regulation governing the spatial arrangement. Although it is unclear whether the nature of this article is directed towards the unit of local and regional self-government, they must, at least, be read, according to the investor's wish and initiate the process of changing the spatial plan, and possibly bring into the plan everything the investor wants. Here the secretary of state said, quote, "We cannot force the local self-government unit to do what it will not." Oh, you can. You certainly can. By name and last name, Milan Rezo, State Secretary or Assistant in the previous Ministry of Construction, at least in the previous term, I do not know if he is still in office, has signed a certificate of compliance of LNG terminals, floating LNG terminals with a spatial plan and with this confirmation of issue and proof of that, says a graphic representation from a spatial plan and there is no planned LNG terminal at sea anywhere but a planned LNG terminal on land. So, what was planned in the ladies and gentlemen's spatial plan or not, could be ordered by the state to amend the spatial plan or not, the state will issue a confirmation of what it wants and no one can doubt that. The investor comes for himself with a certificate issued by someone on a state level whether it's true or not. What if the holder of the spatial plan does not initiate the procedure because he believes that the increase in the exploitation field that is not in line with the spatial plan is not in line because the residents of that unit of local or regional self-government do not want such a surface exploitation field? The secretary of state said, it has not yet happened that someone has ordered a local or regional self-government unit to install a space-based exploitation field and no one has ever objected to this very planning of a space-based field. So 5,000 citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County, the entire island of Krk, the entire municipality of Omisalj, clearly and categorically expressed its position to oppose the project of a floating LNG terminal that is not in the spatial plan of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County or Omisalj municipality or, behold, the state decided to issue a false confirmation and build a floating LNG terminal to ensure imports and dependence on fossil fuels for the Republic of Croatia. Who cares about legal provisions? Who cares about constitutional provisions that make spatial planning especially the right of units of local self-government? Who cares what projects of state interest should be brought up with a state spatial plan but the state is unable to bring it in. Is the process of harmonising with the spatial plan public only public or interested in the public? Is it important what the public thinks or is it just a reform here? What if the environmental impact assessment process that Djakic would not want to make it very difficult for him to remove the environmental impact study, although we can abolish you because the environmental impact study is written as someone orders them to, so environmental impact study makers first write a study because someone ordered them to do so and then write a completely different study because he ordered them to write something different. What if the environmental impact assessment process does not allow the interested public to attend the sessions at which the project is to be coordinated with the environment? Who shall base them and what shall choose which members of the public declared may be involved in the proceedings and which shall not? Art. The 67th Amendments and additions of this Act are prescribed to provide a draft building permit with an explanation of the Article. The 150 paragraph 1 of this Act gives public insight for a minimum period of 15 days. And we personally, at the SDP club, think that it is 15 days, although it is a minimum deadline, too little and we hold that it should be set as 30 days because this is a very important and sensitive area to regulate. Although it is in the proposal that it is a minimum deadline, not a deadline, the practice confirms that the Ministry of Civil Engineering as well as other ministries, adheres to the minimum deadlines justifying itself by haste. Furthermore, the bill does not state where this draft building permit is, we are talking about a draft rather than a final document on a building permit, we need to be available to the public and we ask that this be defined in a way that introduces the obligation to publish such documentation on the Ministry's website. So far, the practice has been published on ministry advertising boards, and you know what happens, we don't even know when it's published and we're past our deadline, and let's say you from Dalmatia or we from Omis don't live by the Ministry and we can't knock on the door every day and physically check that this document is published. Finally, in light of the national development of the strategy and commitment of the EU and consequently of the Republic of Croatia to low-carbon development and towards renewable energy sources, it would be opportunised in this law. which relates to the exploitation of fossil fuels to install compensation policies that would contribute to the achievement of policies to reduce the use of fossil fuels. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31344	The next debate is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, in principle, the law where we are working on harmonising with certain elements that come from the European Commission, means the amendments are, although they are numerous, the question is whether we should be working now, if I am not mistaken, the 70 articles are changing, it is enough, maybe to go to the variant and this writing of the new law, but we have a good change and complemented and they are initiated by the intervention of the European Commission, and due to irregularities concerning the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment in terms of public information. So now what counterpart Ahmetovic was saying is the question all the time is telling us that so far it has been public and transparent, but it turns out that it is not, so now we need to make some positive shifts because the obviously interested public has not been sufficiently involved in all formal environmental impact assessment procedures. Unfortunately, we have some court rulings, though not for the exploitation of hydrocarbons, but specifically for the Gatekeeper 2, where we have both judgments here and from this court, but a little bit of pucks from the EU. Last week we discussed the legal proposal to declare the Park of Nature Dinara and we touched little on these research fields in the Dinarids, we also discussed the national development strategy and there is a fine view that Croatia should be a land of preserved resources in 2030. So now a little bit of this together regardless of what this law has, this proposal has positive elements, I have a feeling that from week to week some contradictory proposals come to us because last week we agreed that nature protection and hydrocarbon research can't go together, and now if we add tourism as a dominant economic branch with a very high share of our GDP, all this is further complicated because we all know that drilling and tourism simply don't go together and it's no wonder that the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, here is the day of St. Vlaha Jel Dubrovci celebrates his day, so I congratulate them on this, already a few years ago harsh opposition to the award of concessions for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in its area precisely because of possible negative implications for tourism, aquaculture, fisheries and what our people would say you cannot and our sheep and money eat, we must determine which direction we are going in. Whether it's tourism, exporting services or that's it, I realize that we want to be energy independent as much as possible, but these reserves have as much as they do. Similarly happening on the continent, it has been investing very much in continental tourism for years, especially in Slavonia there is no place where it does not invest in accommodation facilities, as well as some tourist facilities such as cycling trails, promenades, castles, through the Slavonia project come billions into such projects, and at the same time we have a lot of investigative and recording activities, in particular for some year in Našice, teams from Poland and Hungary are shooting complete Slavonia and doing these ultrasound shootings. It's such a small environment, and then we see people, so we ask some strangers what they're doing here and then we find out that the whole of Slavonia is being filmed and that certain gas beds are being sought. The exploitation of hydrocarbon as an energy in the economy of a modern, civilised state in the 21st century still needs to be reached where it belongs. So still behind the renewable energy sources and in this context, the search for hydrocarbons that are there, these reserves will not disappear, and what I said, and in the replica means the question is whether they should be used as energy or as raw material for the organic chemical industry, which is not negligible, right. And what's good about this proposal is that it's related to geothermal energy, but here in this proposal, it opens up the possibility that certain wells that were used for hydrothermal energy research are used for geothermal energy, and then the question of these premiums is being asked, because then investigations will still be something cheaper, more favourable than having to start from scratch. Here is another element that is mentioned, which is a measure towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the form of carbon dioxide in the underground and the question of whether these measures and those techniques that actually open up space in some way, since according to what experts are saying, it is somewhat insecure and unknown about the long-term effects on the environment, the underworld and everything that is connected. What's still good in this law, here's what we talked about on the board, and that's a ban on this hydraulic fractionation, too, because it's a very invasive technique that some concessionaries in their home countries use, and it's not excluded that profit and all of it would apply to us, so I also welcome that part. More importantly, it is very important because of a large amount of ignorance of this matter to prescribe it at this level since there is a danger of professional service by agencies and at some county, county or even lower level, they are really not able to act according to scientific knowledge, so that the part in this law is definitely good. Yesterday we also touched on the Committee on Economy on these developmental, developmental societies for the promotion and development, development and use of geothermal potential. There was little clarity there, so here I think it's well actually understood that the units of local administrations either form one or more such society and get a little more involved in these processes because it's in the interest of this particular local population and in the interest of the local community. Related to the cascade system of use of geothermal waters to exploit their maximum potential. So a model that allows not only the production of electricity but also the use of that so-called power. waste geothermal water for heat needs and for agriculture or heating of greenhouses or other purposes sounds to the first very good, but we must not forget that on one hand we have incentives for renewable energy sources, and then on the other hand it encourages agricultural production where twice de facto we encourage and premiums to certain things, so we should be careful simply so that our residents do not pay and generate extra profits through large bills. A lot of this is now related to this premium model of some things to think about and the respected secretary of state has said what the level of investment is and we all know that solar panels, for example. have a drop in prices and the level of investment is far lower than it was a few years ago and here I appeal once again to consider this premium system and to see because investors themselves in megasolare say that they would basically invest without premiums, and on the other hand perhaps we should encourage our citizens to actually install solar panels on family houses and that there in some way this reduces, reduces consumption, and some benefits to investors example Krsh-Paden, etc., we have already this many times here instructions and would not spend too many words so that I appeal that this premium system may still be considered and completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31346	Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31347	Thank you very much. This law, which is prescribed as standard of what we do. You say that in line with EU directives is an indicator of when the government is formed, i.e. When she went, when the Ministry of Energy merged with, together with this one when the environment was fused with the economy, I said it was water and fire. And the simple economy and the environment, the environment and nature simply cannot be in the same interest, in the same ministry, and that's visible from all of what's being said here. I would just briefly repeat that in the Republic of Croatia we are now calling for fossil fuels, the research we have given to foreign investors, which will have a huge profit while we threaten to say Dinaride in the area of the Republic of Croatia, not just Dinara, Dinara is one of those from Rijeka to Montenegro, one of our grand mountains that you want to destroy and sell to foreign interests to exploit i.e. To investigate, you've already signed it for the 5th year. I would, within 5 years. research, after that I can do 20 years. Exploited, 20 years old. We're talking about mountains, sacred mountains, the most beautiful mountains, our junk that has the greatest potential, and that's water. The biggest potential on the cross is clean, clear, drinking water that is a key resource and battles will be fought around drinking waters. We need to know already if you're coming from the Ministry of Environment where it's part of the economy that two billion people currently have no contact with drinking water. The importance of water is that water appears recently on the stock market, drinking water. And what we're about to do to protect that breach of ours, whether Velebit, whether Dinara, whether it's Kameshnica, whether it's Svilaj, whether it's Mosor, whether it's Biokovo, whether it's Kozjak, any mountain, it's got to be protected if that plum has to be protected solely because of drinking water. These drinking pools of purest water not only in Europe, it is left to a foreign investor who will relentlessly drill, explore, of course and exploit these areas and where it will inevitably reach pollution, the threat of drinking water. We have a huge problem with drinking water today. That's why we need to have a plan, we need to determine ourselves, we can't appeal to green policies as the prime minister says and sustainable development and you've brought together water and fire, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the Environment. It's a conflict, it's a conflict, it's just impossible in the same ministry to do. And that's the interest of the economy, especially foreign investors, is that in 2019 you gave the possibility that mountains on which not only are the most beautiful, what are the endemics in Europe, and Velebit and Dinar and all the mountains around, you allowed drilling, research, 2019 what INAs, what are they, most of them, are not domestic investors, mainly and of course will get a ic who, as well as in other cases. Not only that, we can take a step further, we've also given concessions to drinking water to foreigners, e.g. Cetina, the source of the river Cetina is given in a long, decades-old concession, 5000 kn is paid by the concessionaire, 5000 kn several times I repeated it, it spends less OPG a month. I think it's primarily in this story to call for fossil fuels, that you're contradictory. In 2017, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic announced on Christmas, Urbi et Orbi, the purchase of INA from what he would say, taken from us, from the people taken from INA and handed over to the Hungarian MOL, the management rights committed to Hungarian MOL, regardless of what they did not have most. We know how it went not to repeat how the national interests were sold. At the same time you're calling here for drilling and exploitation, fossil fuels and still using fossil fuels, we're not going to go to green ecology yet, we're not going to go over it, it's going to be gradual, and at the same time, you're shutting down the refinery in Sisak, where every place is the most important. No matter what you said in the election campaign, there's no way to shut down, it's treason if you shut down the mammal's refinery. And it's a betrayal because this area deserves as long as fossil fuels are, whether it has a stand for or not, so you can't drill Dinara to have someone investigate, exploit and to be rich, create an empire and profit goes to foreigners as in all, as in the case of a wind power plant, not to repeat, and that's the same case because this law or law uses renewable energy sources while at the same time you shut down the mammalian refinery. So do we have an interest in protecting our good? I'm not accusing here just now so it doesn't turn out to be ruling, I'm accusing this whole white night process of SDP, which Slavko Linic started privatising and HDZ finished, stuck the last nail, handed over the management rights. So we have white nights in other countries that we could exploit, more drilling than in white nights were given in Syria and oil was extracted from them than in all other fields, both INA and MOL together. And we gave it to someone. So these are to betray national interests. And now you're saying we're going to step forward. We respect EU directives. Well, it's not an EU directive, the Holy Scriptures. If we have karst areas, which is the endem, in the world, in Europe, our breach, so you don't have to do harmful projects. And throw more on those waste management centers of Lečevica, and kill us with that water. So now the problem of agglomeration Sinj for Cetina but he finally got rid of whatever Croatian waters, the water line of local wise men who transferred the project, misjudged 150 million kuna but it was the water line, yes, less, but it was your ministry's fault because you named it. people in the Croatian waters who are contracted sides for the agglomeration of Sinj for the sewerage that affects the entire river Cetina and from the river Cetina feeds the entire area, the large area of Split-Dalmatia County and the more because Jadro poisoned, for that reason I am telling you. Protect the Dinara, protect Velebit, protect our breach. We have the greatest resource and potential but you've made an immediate mistake, this government is on the first step when it brings the environment together with the economy. It was an immediate mistake because there are two interests broken in the same ministry, entrepreneurs and profits, interests mostly global, there are no Croatian interests and this INA, it goes in the pocket of others, so that's where the interests are broken, and what did you do? You made it now in the junk you allowed it to be explored in 2019. With that if they find oil, if they find hydrocarbons, they can exploit it for 20 years. Well, that's crazy. Our greatest potential to destroy so much. Krsh Fallen is a huge problem, a crime, a large scale, 2 billion kunas will pay through the law on renewable energy again to someone who knows who's costing electricity. But this is it, is a little baby according to this if we go in this direction to exploit the debris that should be a protected area, we know what the debris is, the sponge. And in Europe, there are no such ones, so it's a protected area. You are referring to certain areas of respected secretary of state, which are now nature parks, this, what, yes, yes, those nature parks you drew as pipes where you escaped, you have avoided exploitation fields so that exactly the end, I think, that's the same part, you can't separate it, it's connected to sinks, down below the tributaries, streams, here I'm talking about the river Cetina, so so on Krka, so on Zrmanja, so on all rivers. That's why I can't accept that we're making directives that we can explain, but that's a dead letter on paper, something that makes it easier for entrepreneurs to deal with exploitation, this, what, but whether we've harmonised our legislation, our spatial plans, our goals, our sustainable development strategies, to preserve what we have, and we have to manage it, let's not forget, water is the resource of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31348	The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31349	Thank you, Vice-President of the HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to remind you that, in the last meeting in this House, we have passed a Law on the Research and Exploitation of Carbons, which brings together the energy resources of the Republic of Croatia in terms of hydrocarbon research and exploitation, geothermal waters, gas storage and permanent CO2 disposal, resulting in an increase in the efficiency of the energy and research systems through the reduction of administrative barriers. For the first time in one place, the Republic of Croatia's energy resources are united, which is the basis for creating a positive investment climate in a country that rationally manages its resources. In this regard, the special emphasis was placed on the high potential of geothermal water geothermal exploitation for energy purposes. In view of the fact that the Pannonian swimming pool has a 60% higher regional gradient than the European average, we believe that the intensive and valorisation of this huge natural potential could be achieved by many megawatts of new, clean renewable energy, as well as by the EU countries. By passing this law, the Republic of Croatia has opened the door to new investments in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons on land, as well as competitions for research and exploitation of geothermal water. The mainland part of Croatia in terms of research and exploitation has long been known, Slavonia was the main gas and oil dump, the Pannonian swimming pool is a significant geological structure that many of the world's oil and gas companies know very well. Analysis of available geological data pointed to significant geological potential that has not been fully used, 5 research spaces for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed contracts in 2016 and during 2019 made decisions on the issue of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation permits in 7 other continental areas of Croatia, new investments in research and exploitation were provided, but also economic development of Croatia, particularly local communities in these areas. That's right, for example. only from the fee for hydrocarbon research in 2 years from the signing of the contract, only Vukovar-Srijem County has incometed about 2.5 million kuna in its budget at the expense of the fee for the area of investigation. Already at this initial stage, when activities are not intensive, the local community has been activated, either through the recruitment of investigative activities or through service activities to companies involved in the project. In the previous meeting, we have adopted amendments to the law in question which are prescribed under the Law on the State Inspectorate of the Special Inspectorate of the jurisdiction of the oil and mining inspectors of the Ministry of Energy to take over the State Inspectorate. Now let's get back to this bill. It introduces a more significant transparency of the process and significant public involvement in these proceedings. National legislation will be harmonised with the acquis of the EU so that the definitions of the public, one or more natural or legal persons, their groups, associations and organisations, in accordance with specific regulations and practices, and the public concerned, which is affected or could be influenced by what is being decided on the environment or has an interest in environmental decision-making, civil society organisations operating in the field of environmental protection, meet all the conditions in accordance with the law governing environmental protection, will also be considered to be an interested public. Furthermore, an obligation is introduced to publish a draft of certain acts relating to oil and construction projects and permits, which must be an integral part of the environmental protection measures and environmental monitoring programmes from environmental assessment and environmental impact assessment procedures in order for the public to have insight into certain conditions issued by the competent authorities for those projects and building permits, the same will be published on the Ministry's website. Finally, the public and the interested public will be able to access the judiciary with regard to the approvals for requests issued under the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. It is also undoubtedly clear that overlapping of the field of exploitation for different purposes is possible, and in the case of different hydrodynamic units, this is meant by the hydrocarbon or geothermal water, unless it is found in internal sea waters or the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia. This law also introduces the powers of the carbons Agency for the implementation of certain investigative works, for the purpose of promoting the geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the introduction of a permanent CO2 disposal with a new concept of permanent disposal is also a result of a global acceptance of greenhouse gas emissions reduction. The proposed law opens the possibility of establishing a development society to promote development and use the geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia in order to increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption. The law clarifies that the Agency prepares and delivers initiatives to develop and amend the spatial plan and participates in the procedures in accordance with the rules in the area of spatial regulation in order to implement the Framework Plan and the programme for the exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation on the Adriatic and the Framework Plan and the programme for the exploration of land exploitation. A ban on mass hydraulic fracture is defined as risky and dangerous activities. The law contributes to the creation of a safe legal environment for investors by protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Since I have a little more time, I will look back at previous discussions, and so on LNG exactly the opposite of what we have heard that we are creating some dependence on anything I think we are just creating a strengthening of the gas market and introducing competition in some way, or creating security in gas supply in the Republic of Croatia, and in the future we are even allowing perhaps less gas prices. It would also refer to the story of renewable energy sources and extra profits. I've been a participant in energy since 1998, and in 2000, we set out to encourage renewable energy sources. However, although the incentives were precisely that in 2000, more than all the years later, no one was actually interested in going to build or work on some renewable energy sources. And why am I saying this? Well, because at first it was necessary and necessary, regardless of who was in power at the time, and who the opposition, if we were to define ourselves, if we were to opt for renewable energy sources then it was necessary and necessary for incentives to be bigger in order to even start building the first objects that we can call renewable energy sources, and how all this is developing, of course, that these incentives are falling and are now significantly smaller than they were then. Of course those contracts that first entered into it, the contracts last, when these contracts end these facilities remain, but on the other hand, without it, they would not have succeeded in moving anyone into renewable energy sources. Now, what is said very rarely here, we have all brought together a law that encourages households, private people to install solar panels for the production of electricity on their houses, and if these devices can take electricity from HEP during the night when their system does not produce, and when they have a surplus during the day they push HEP and if it is at the annual level zero or even at the monthly level for households, if it is not paid to HEP. So we have the law that we've passed but I think we should all start talking about it in the same direction together, that people realize that's how it is and then take advantage of it. As far as tourism and energy independence are concerned, I think it is necessary, of course, both. We won't even have tourism if we don't have energy independence. I doubt tourists really want to stay no electricity when they come to us. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you. The HDZ Club will support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31350	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed representative injured Article 232 because the topic is not trade in hydrocarbons, the topic is exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, and he spoke to the LNG terminal. We all know that the stored gas is primarily more expensive than natural gas so I don't know how you're going to affect the price of gas, and on the other hand we know that all the gas that comes through LNG is already booked and going to Hungary and Ukraine. This is generally known, so the topic is not trade but research and Explosion. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31352	You used this part of the replica to give you a warning. Krešo Beljak is a respected representative on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31353	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to read the position of the HSS on this law in a few sentences. The HSS is against this Law on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons because drilling the bottom of the Adriatic Sea is dangerous and there is a great possibility of pollution of Croatian islands and coasts. The HSS advocates green technologies based on renewable energy sources and environmental protection. Following a thorough reading of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons and a statement by Resoring Minister Ćorić, the following things are unfounded in the law. The first notorna is a lie that research will be conducted to use geothermal energy because it is only a front to find new beds, oil and gas sites. Secondly, there is a high risk of a negative impact on the marine environment, coastal areas, coastal areas and islands that are the pearls of Croatia. The third is threatened by two strategic, strategic important branches of the Croatian economy, perhaps the most important, which are tourism and fishing. A fourth can occur non-transparent whatever they say and risk research activities and possible exploitation of almost 90% of the Croatian part of the Adriatic. And fifthly, it is a lie that this law will allow the storage of carbon dioxide CO2 because it is scientifically and professionally proven, there is no evidence of economic justification and security of CO2 storage in far more developed countries than Croatia, let alone to do so with us. Now allow me to elaborate a little bit on what is happening today, or the proposal of this law, to go back a little bit to history that little to the Croatian public and to all of us that is actually happening to us, and for this is not the fault and responsibility of this government and this set, but all the previous ones in the last 30 years. It seems to me sometimes that we live really in a comic book, in Alan Ford or in that parody called Monty Paython, so what's happening is amazing what Croatia does to itself. A hundred years ago, when oil sites in the world were moving, when American companies first did so and then some other British, Dutch, came to poor countries that had no knowledge, no money, no idea that they were in their space, there was black gold. They came with their money, with their investments, with their technology and knowledge, and then shared profits, often unfairly, but shared that profit with the land where the oil site is located. At that time, contracts were concluded with foreign concessionaries in both Saudi Arabia and all over the Middle East and Iran, etc., but these were countries where people literally lived in tents had no idea of oil, nothing to pay for, no money, nothing else. In Croatia, we had a reverse example, we had everything and knowledge and technology and our findings and oil and gas and knowledge, so and colleges, educated people who could still do all this for Croatia, but at one point everything under cover of some market, Croatian interests were destroyed, the INA was destroyed, sold, not even sold, but donated to the company that INA could buy for a month's profit in the '80s. So, all of this is done to make it possible for foreign investors to now pass a law that will enable so-called foreign investors. a free market race. It's bullshit, this is about treason, we betrayed ourselves. So all the furniture that has run Croatia for the past 30 years has betrayed national interest, this is treason, nothing else. And now that we are going back to hydrocarbons, that is, oil and gas, and we are ignoring the whole story that the agenda of the future and the development of the EU itself offers, and thus Croatia. So, turning to renewable energy sources, what we ourselves want, which we can, so these are two completely diametrically opposed concepts that are pushed into this law. That we want green, but we're still going to give and drill the Adriatic and drill Dinaridi, which is insane, and there's a colleague of Bulls absolutely right. It's crazy, so it's irrevocable destruction, it's like having toes in the sea to get to them, you have to break the coast and then you have toes and you don't have a beach anymore, you don't have a rock. So that's you drilling Dinarida. A colleague of Totgergeli said no one wanted to enter the construction of a renewable energy plant. Well, I'm the mayor of 12 years, and I've had at least five investors from Germany from Austria, and I think from the Netherlands who wanted to work solar panels, but they weren't allowed by their colleague Totgergeli, they weren't allowed to do it from HEP because HEP was already in wind power plants at the time, and today the wind power plants are engaged in the state's attorney's office. So they did not give them even though the sun in Croatia is 50% more than in Germany. Go to Germany you will see 10 years ago, but 10 years ago everything is full, every possible place has been covered with solar panels, in Croatia this is not the case today. How is that possible, then we were already in the EU? No one wanted to, so no one could except the like, except those who were connected to HEP first of all, except the party people who were setting up jobs who knew who, you can.../incomprehensible/... as much as you want, it's not even about the same people. Here, Secretary of State Milatić once a prominent member of the HSS, I met him there, then HNS to find out today, and I congratulate him on being a member of the HDZ recently. Well, he doesn't have ideology, he doesn't care about ideology, he's in a place where he decides he can protect someone's interests, so that's a clear thing. These Croatian interests are not and cannot be Croatian interests. So, what they're doing, what they're doing, I repeat, I don't think it's just, so Mr. Milatić is a visual copy of you he's here in the system in 2003, everything he's changed that, he's just changing parties going on, going on, going on, such a Milatić you have a thousand in Croatia. So, since 1990, Croatia has been working on the betrayal of individuals to get some judine in their pocket, a complete Croatian energy strategy has been destroyed. You're talking about energy self-sufficientness, so we were energy self-sufficient, which happened, which we made ourselves dependent on not knowing the gas in Russia or in America. What we did ourselves, so we did it ourselves, we were basically independent, and today we're not. I would end up with this, and I hope that, I hope that the second reading will bring about significant changes to this proposal, we will certainly send our amendments and I hope that this practice that has been implemented for 30 years will finally change and that there will indeed be political forces in Croatia that will not look at the personal particular interest, but will look at the long-term national interest of the Republic of Croatia and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31354	There's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31355	Thank you. He was injured in 238, which is exactly the year 2000 I was talking about, and you and my colleague Lenart were part of that ruling story, so you created such a story that there was nothing to build. But I didn't say it at all, I was talking about that the incentives were much higher then, and the interest was no more than now when the incentives are very small, and the interest in building new sources three times or four times greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31356	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica, I give you a warning. The following breach of the Rules of Procedure is the honourable representative of Kreso Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31357	Thank you very much. A colleague named Totgergeli injured Article 238. It's the rules of procedure because he's telling the truth. So, I was neither in the HSS in 2000 nor in politics at all, I joined in 2003 when Mr Milatić was a prominent member of the HSS, and I have been since 2003. member of the HSS as my only party unlike yours now and political and party colleague, Mr Milatić, who is, whose HDZ is only one station on the road, and probably when the SDP comes to power or someone else or MOST There he is. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31358	So this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica, and you have a warning. Dear Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31359	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Totgergeli, I'm 2000. Radio at SMUĐ-INVEST private company for 1,700 kuna salaries as the only engineer there and I had no impact on events like you have and you live your whole life on the back of HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31360	You have not called upon the article of the Rules of Procedure, and you, too, have been warned. Next is an individual debate, the distinguished representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31361	I thank Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In principle, it should appear that the harmonisation of this law with the EU Directive should not remain a dead letter on paper in order to do so well and, in any case, to bring both the practice and the political will to include and to participate the public in the decision-making processes on new concessions. Of course, apart from the fight against these climate change and this urgent transition to a low carbon society that the prime minister swears to, we have already mentioned this national strategy, that Croatia should lead the energy transition. Yeah, we agree on that, the green-left block for sure. I purposely mentioned that change in the name of the ministry that suddenly became the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development and then at first really talk a lot about it, but I feel from the atmosphere and the way the secretary of state says that he still believes that what most of you obviously believe is what's concrete and what you can really rely on it is, however, it's hydrocarbons as something real, it's still fossil fuels. A sufficient example is, we saw what happened and how the platform was sought for Ivan D. at the end of last year, five days could not be found at all, the associations were quite speaking about, how dangerous it is and whether or not that methane leaks, does not leak. The 70 of these articles that have been changed here not to harmonize just talks about when, if the law is already needed, that maybe a really new law should be made. I would like to stress that 60% of citizens have made it clear that they oppose the drilling of the Adriatic and those concessions. However, I would like to say something else now. Croatia could lead a real transition, but in this sense there is a Treaty on the Energy Charter which is certainly familiar to you, Energy Charter Treaty, a multilateral investment contract that protects investment in energy supply and these are completely opposite things, so protect itself, that is, the Member States, the EU signed that contract in the '90s to protect investors, but this is completely contrary to this if we want low-energy... And we're putting it all down, which means these investors don't benefit at all. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, 81% of investment protected by the ISD contract is investment within the EU. It means that we should support as Croatia if we really want to be in this sense progressive and advanced those countries in Europe who are struggling to make that contract and that charter and that charter come apart. And I want to give you an example. I gave another example of Ivana D. one example where we should rely, that, that, that empty that LNG terminal is that the ships didn't come, that's the same thing about your whole planning. And remember the plan of the Trade Mountain in Bania where it was supposed to be in that neglected wasteland that was now hit by the earthquake tragedy was supposed to be a storage facility for nuclear fuel. No, do not drill Bania from now on, let's just say, for Banija all the best, let Bania be a European example, not only of Croatia for low-energy houses, all that you're restoring is doing so, you're doing energy cooperatives. In Banja, you will show that you have the real will of politics. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31362	We have two replicas, wait. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31363	Thank you, Vice President. I'm going to replicate on this part to say that we firmly believe in hydrocarbons. I firmly believe in renewable energy and hydrocarbons over the years will be increasingly used as raw materials and increasingly less as energy. But knowing how electricity systems work, I'm aware that in some situations, I first explained to you, when the wind falls out, when you don't have a wind at night when these renewables can't work, you have to have some built-up capacities that you can currently run to maintain the electrical energy system. That's very little energy for you. Maybe the hydrocarbons will be 2050. I just don't know, one hour over the year we'll be importing something into hydrocarbons and everything else into renewables. But the capacity to wait, you must have as a reserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31364	Time, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31365	Yeah, but you see, I understand that, but I'm telling you why for Bania from now on because for decades you haven't done it, you can't say it wasn't trendy, but now it's just the best and why? Because you have money, you have so much money, and instead of giving all your energy and waiting for investors from the Netherlands, where, you now have the money to build in Banja and to pull people together to have energy cooperatives, there to learn how to do it, that all our scientific institutes that deal with it help them, and that the best of European practices, of world practices, is just being implemented in Bania because from now on, for Banija, the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31366	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31367	Dear fellow Matula, you mentioned in your discussion the platform which escaped us and which was found by the minister and practically immediately drew itself there and explained to the Croatian public that it was no great pity that we lost this platform because that platform at the end of its exploitation but forgot to say that the platform was co-owned with Italy and that we bought this co-ownership and my question to you is, who do you think will pay for the recovery of that area after the exploitation? Is the Italians going to take part in this or did we buy a platform that didn't serve us anything, so wouldn't the Italians help us?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31368	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31369	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Brumnic. Yes, I couldn't agree more, I saw this as a rhetorical question, it's quite clear that in the IGP that imposed on us Italy we'll have to do it and we're still dreaming about it and we're looking forward to drilling that bottom of the Adriatic. But I believe that, however, this law still provides opportunities and believe that the associations will, but we will certainly do it as a green-left block, that together with the citizens we will very much follow and question every concession and I assure you that it is much better for the whole of Europe to know that Croatia is the first to go completely naked and to bring people here for low energy tourism and that is why people even want to come to the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31370	Time. Next individual debate, a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31371	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. First, I'll look back on something my colleague Bull said. That the EU directives are not something we should just accept. These are the directives that we have adopted among other things. Yes, we should accept them, we are part of the EU, and therefore with EU directives should not have problems. But the explanation of why we are going to amend this law is precisely the fact that the European Commission has warned us that we do not respect the EU Directive and it has warned us yet on 7.3.2019. In my line, the State Secretary replied that it took him 2 years to agree on this EU directive and that the EU directive speaks of one thing he would even say, even to the human fact that everything that is happening in a particular area, so it is necessary to get to know people living in that area, or the EU directive is talking about the public and the interested public. Now, ask yourself a question about who protects and how the public and the interested public are concerned. So first, when it comes to the Charter of Local Self-Government, there is a European charter that has quite clearly defined what the local self-government units are and what their rights are. And it's precisely those rights that have been violated in art. The 19th of this law. That's the one. It's 19th, actually. The 44th basic law, where it tries to reduce the influence of local self-government units, i.e. through the pressure of the state on local self-government units, push through what is right, as the Secretary of State has said to the investor. Let's make a good investment climate. Well, we're doing a great investment climate. We invest money, we put ourselves at risk, and the profits are made by someone third. And that's what it's for. Development society. As the secretary of state said instead of a minister who is not here, and probably there's a reason why he's not here, because he doesn't want his name to get too attached to something like this, it's going to be a project society. Does this mean that we will only have one project in Croatia related to this? No, I don't. We're gonna have a lot of 'em. And such projects where the state will pay for the research, where the state will pay for what is invaluable to the investor, and the part that is profitable to the investor will be taken by the investor. Now you have to ask yourself whether this law as it is presented here represents what we should want it to do to Croatian society. Do we agree on being an interested public inside, yes? Do we agree to discuss geothermal sources, yes? Do we agree that local self-government units don't have administrations on it, no. Do we agree that the state takes the risk, and the private investor takes the profit, no. In conclusion, this law needs to be corrected, this law should be made better and this law should be adapted to what Europe is asking of us. To adapt to Europe's objectives, and Europe's objectives are on the board yesterday, but under one other point, circular economy and green energy have been discussed. It's just that Europe knows where it's going, and unlike Europe, we don't know where we're going again, and we can't get on the train if we haven't bought a ticket. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31372	We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Angelo Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31373	Thank you. Col. Brumnic, you stressed in your debate that it is necessary to respect the EU Directive, which I absolutely agree with you. You can't be a part or a member of a particular club, say, and don't follow those rules. Well, among other things, we can't afford that when we talk about European funds, it's great, and when it comes to accepting certain rules of the game, we'd be running away from it. Among other things, I believe that by entering Croatia into the EU, by whatever segment of society we looked only at winning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31374	I don't know what you're replicating me for, and obviously you were sitting on your ears when I was talking. Just what you said is the only thing that we did that two, first of all, we didn't write in the law what the European directive asked us to do when it came to the public and the interested public, two years ago we got a pack of Europe to fix it and here for 2 years we haven't been able to fix it, and I am now warning that Article 19 is contrary to the Charter of Local Self-Government of the EU, I don't know what you don't understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31375	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. State secretaries with co-workers, so here is the amendment and the addition of the law which clearly tells us that procedures and procedures are clearly defined for the implementation of all oil and mining activities, which contributes to the creation of a secure legal environment for investors by protecting these interests of the Republic of Croatia. The interests of the Republic of Croatia are above all, and so we believe in our strategic documents, and we also know that it says that energy independence is as much and as necessary. INA Naftaplin has left a series of wells that are still in exploitation during his time of business and work, which contribute to almost half the supply of oil and gas, which still function and operate today, left hundreds of wells that are still untapped today, and I believe that this law will put them into office, that both local communities and regional communities in their projections, plans, and we see that they are increasingly in common with private investors and foreign investors to have as much green energy as possible, but of course we will not ignore the potentials that are in the oil and gas in our own country. Everything we heard today listening to our friends from the opposition as if Croatia should be a nature park entirely. It's as if they shouldn't have energy potentials, as if they shouldn't have their own oil and gas, as if those wells that have been made or those that are being explored or which geophysical works now potentiate as future findings should remain intact. Yeah. Perhaps only tourism could contribute to the better in Croatia, but I don't believe it. All those who today protect one or the other, and of course by this law are defined all possibilities of protection and more than that, I have even said that perhaps through impact studies will be delayed and certain procedures but the need is probably so. Maybe we should just do what is necessary in some situations, and that is an assessment of the need for study or not an assessment, but it is necessary, at least it is necessary, and the rest is whether the study is necessary or not, I can only say examples that on our road construction and highway I have seen examples where a tunnel has to be made to save 28 frogs of a species or butterflies of another species, so we need to protect them, and such infrastructure facilities cost up to 7, 8 to 10 thousand or 10 million kuna, so that many times we beat empty straw in some situations, looking at just to get some kind of attention or some kind of grudge against the law being passed. I believe that what some have linked to the earthquake disaster in the Republic of Croatia is linked to the exploration or depletion of oil and gas, including mass fractures, INA has done such moves in the Kalinovec area, the Kalinovac field to improve gas production with some small capacity that is not even close to what is happening here. And I was aware of the events and of the... as well as in Novska area and these are all things that people should know that they are at depths of over 1,000 m, from 1500 to 3500 thousand, that it is about turning the fracture from the centre of the well to the most kilometers and that on such occasions nothing important can happen that would affect any seismic shifts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But those who do not know, who did not deal with such hydraulic fractures, surely speak in their minds and do one mess in space as they do many times on other subjects. EU recommendations, however, must be always elaborated, adapted, home-made our potentials and explained to make [[Intruder: Time.]] and the directive was in line with what could be done. [[Intruder: Time.]] I believe this law contributes to the future and most green energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31377	We have a few replicas. The first is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31378	He's been injured. 238 and the duration of the debate has been injured where you did not warn the speaker that the debate was too long. And as for what he was talking about, he was talking about building a frog rescue tunnel, and he didn't say how much of the curve was built to fix HDZ's mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31379	So I've warned twice, and you've made a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have a warning. The first replica is Honored Representative Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31380	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, in your speech, you spoke of geothermal waters, in the exploitation of energy, so how much potential in the continental part of Croatia is for exploitation and whether it is possible to use it in tourist facilities, thereby obtaining new jobs. And I ask you to comment because the speakers here are actually saying that we are not eco-aware, so that everything we do is that we are actually destroying our homeland, which I would not agree with, that we must respect all European standards in researching certain areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31381	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31382	Thank you very much, fellow Shimičević. Well, I said that the geothermal potentials of the Republic of Croatia are huge and that especially in the Pannonian swimming pool, but also in the area of Karlovac County are large and that hundreds of wells made are waiting to be opened and heat hot water to be heated, but also for the production of electricity in future energies as expected. As far as environmental protection is concerned, I hope we've gone a long way too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31383	The next replica is the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31384	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Djakic, I see that your exposure is quite colourful and your work experience, is it, in part, whether, for the gas business, but here, since you have experience, say whether these premiums should be reduced, since these changes and additions allow the investigation of the wells that we used in the research operations to see if there is gas, can now be used for geothermal sources, so the whole investment should be significantly less since you have worked in this business, you probably have experience... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31385	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31386	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues, yes. Investigation drills are always discovery of potential or undetectable. Prior to that, geosismic works that have drills up to 100 m when the activation of certain earthquake situations leads to amplitudes that talk about what is in the underground. That's when he decides whether or not to investigate. We've come across thermal waters many times, I'll just say that the well in the river is next to Karlovac with the potential to heat up the whole of Carlovac, at the time we were working. It's blocked today, and all it can do is drill a cement cap and go into exploitation. I believe that, like all others, these hundreds waiting in Virovitica both in Moldova and Kalinovec, all other locations will be used in renewable sources and geothermal potentials.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31387	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31388	Dear colleague, you told the opposition MPs that they wanted Croatia to be a park of nature. I would disagree with you, I think today they have been constructively discussing, it is part of democracy, there are criticisms, suggestions are made, if we are going to say HDZ policies, high taxes and unfortunately corruption affairs have led hundreds of thousands of people to leave Croatia, so, yes, Croatia is turning into a nature park because of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31389	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31390	Yes, I said that it seems to me from your discussions, not yours personally, but from some colleagues who are simply calling the secretary of state and imposing all kinds of epithets, as well as everything else, have come to the conclusion that you want to turn Croatia into a nature park and that nothing else should be done, except to deal with tourism, which would certainly not have occurred any economic shift. I think you have your orders, so talk about them, talk about your former officials as well as the current ones on the defendant's benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31391	The next replica is the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31392	Thank you. Your Honor, as much as you trivialize and talk about 26 or 28 frogs, about protecting butterflies, and as funny as that may be to you, you didn't paint tunnels twice to save some frogs or something, you did it to put down HDZ pockets and you know it very well. And Minister Coric certainly did not dare to come to such a sensitive topic as your most notorious minister today who has the least acceptability in the public and of course knows that it is difficult to defend something like this, and you with these arguments certainly will not help. When will you buy the INA from Hungary? When are we going to have that and when are you and our INA going to drill those wells of yours?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31393	... It's a replica. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31394	Thank you. Comrade Matul, your hysterization won't help anything, especially my debate, but also my answer. These are the facts from the documents that were made, from the objects that were made, so you tell us by heart, insult and disdain the MPs, look at yourself first, and then others.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31395	The next replica is the esteemed representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31396	Dear colleague Djakic, first of all, I must say that I am very happy that I am not a frog because you would probably liquidate me according to your words. What will be interesting for me to see if you will have an individual discussion in the next item on which amendments and additions to the Energy Efficiency Act are discussed. Namely, all European directives, and even the directives relating to this law, are going in this direction to protect natural diversity, and this plant and animal world that you have so easily today liquidated in your debate. I hope you are aware that your views are not in line with European directives and I hope that you have decided to miss the next debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31397	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31398	My colleague Ahmetovic, I also heard your debate, it was wonderful. All the negativity you could, all the distortions from this law were in your mouth. No, I don't consider you a frog, I'm not for liquidation, I'm not the one who would destroy frogs, I'm just saying an example that's impossible in today's society that because of the 25 observed special frog species a real overpass or tunnel that costs 10 million, that's the thing, don't twist the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31399	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31400	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Djakic, I was so proud to hear you say I was coming from Cross, and you know very well why I'm saying it. Forest, 5th, 1948, the first oil rig in the southeast of Europe. My fellow citizens live on oil wells, but what good is that? They benefited when INA Naftaplin worked, today behind INA NAFTAPLINA we have INA and two INA companies, CROSCO and STSI and people waiting for cancellations, people who will be left without existence while our INA is in MOL's hands, and the prime minister promises two years ago, three years ago. We will return INA to Croatia. Tell me, mine rent isn't enough to develop this area because it's the smallest one of the EU's mines, so I'd like to ask you nicely to tell those former INA naftaplins what to expect of these new laws? [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31401	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31402	Thank you very much, colleague. Yes, I know Križ very well and Ivanić City and all other destinations with oil and gas production. The fact that there is no benefit from the exploitation of oil and gas is not true, the mining rent is defined not only by us but also by the whole of Europe, so your municipality of Cross has a generous fee as well as by my municipality of Pitomanac, as well as by all other similar exploitations that occur in this area. My colleagues and our colleagues who left work early all got their severances, all found their way into life, and everyone is happy with their present days, except for those who are young and recently when research has stopped and when geophysical activity has stopped in these areas, it is true that today the Poles are investigating for the needs of INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31403	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31404	Your Honor, in your debate, you said the law was passed to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, which is indeed commendable. However, if we look at the real situation, we know that oil and gas actually draw foreign companies. INA, as our largest company, oil failures, refineries are being closed, local self-government is being forced into state-level documents, and should be brought by local self-government. Where do you see the benefits of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31405	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31406	Thank you very much. I have clearly indicated that all these interests of the Republic of Croatia are linked through this law. Above all, compliance with European directives, as well as regulating the possibility of overlapping more investors in the same space, the promotion of geothermal potential is also very well defined in this law. The law opens the possibility of establishing a development society in each of our municipalities, county and city. Harmonisation with spatial plans is also a matter that has not been defined properly in the current law. I believe that you have read all of this if you have followed this law and aligned it with the previous one, so that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is in further researching the geothermal potentials of oil and gas throughout the space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31407	Last line, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31408	Thank you very much. Dear Djakić, I listened to your debate, it turned out that you are not modern enough and that you are just still living in the distant past and the present is not so important at all because we have heard, say, these colleagues from the left-green block, they are called, no, they are in 2050, it is next year and we need nothing, we have an alternative in which we can drive all of our necessary vehicles, etc., so that we can heat on alternative fuels, that we have enough electricity from these alternative sources, etc. You can't imagine a fellow Matul that he may have in the house, I don't know, a gas boiler, they reject it with disgust. They're driving on electric cars because next year's 2050, and that's why you're backwards. We're of course backwards compared to them, left-green block. They all have advanced and everything with disgust refuses and they're the right example, there's no way they're living in a building that's not energy-efficient, they come right out, you know? So, unfortunately, we have to argue in this way and with sarcasm because they simply don't understand in the time in which we live.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31409	Time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31410	Comrade Boric, you have well defined everything that happens to your colleagues, especially your colleague Matul, but others. I didn't just check if he wrote to some green society constantly to the EU remarks on our laws, on our actions, on our decisions, which not only does he know how to stop a lot of procedures, which actually do damage to a huge Republic of Croatia, by writing nebuloses, writing nonsense, looking for sanctions and years, and what not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31411	We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative of William Matul.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31412	... On several occasions, MP Djakic insulted and used the term, you heard it now, but he used to say it was nonsense, to talk nonsense. [[Specially enabled.]] I think it's an art after all. 238, that's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31413	Unfortunately, you often honor each other with different terms, but this was your replica, Mr. Djakic, I must give you a warning. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Bačić. [[Matula raid: It wasn't a replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31414	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Before I say anything about this law, as representative of the Xth Electoral Unit of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate the Day of Dubrovnik and the Festival of the Heavenly Protector of St. The Vlach, the Dubrovnik couple. And now I'm going to say a few words about this law or amendments to the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. For a long time in the Croatian society and here, above all, in the Croatian Parliament, there are numerous discussions on the definition of the hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation process, which is one of the most demanding industrial and technological processes in the world, especially if research and exploitation is done at sea and further if it is done at great depths. In 2015, therefore, I was the author of the interpretation submitted by the HDZ Council when we then found that an illegal, non-transparent process on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea where the defined fields that we saw on the one hand were economically unwarranted and, on the other hand, unfounded. As far as HDZ's position is concerned, it has been constant since the first day, we know clearly how and how we approach the process of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. And then we're in our main observations, and I'm going to confirm that today, today I have the same attitude as that, any process of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons must first and foremost be envisaged and defined in spatial planning documents of units of regional or local self-government, and there is no dilemma. It cannot be accessed by exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons if it is not defined in the spatial plan. What I often hear from this left hand side of the assembly about how something has been broken, how the spatial planning documents of the local self-government unit have not been respected when defining and implementing individual projects sound grotesque. Here in the Croatian Parliament, when I was passing the SDP Government Act on Strategic Investment Projects, I personally gave the amendment that the implementation of strategic investment projects must in all things be respected by the law defined by the process of producing spatial-planned documentation and, where the urban planning is envisaged, it must also be fully respected during the construction and execution of competitions for granting licences for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. And there is no doubt about me here, and I hold that even today, if necessary, it comes to the creation of both the law and the spatial plan document of the unit of local self-government provided for the creation of an urban plan arranged for a particular area, it still needs to be implemented today and where it is not foreseen, where the strategic investment project is concerned. This is also the case here in the article of this law, which provides for the possibility to come forward to amend spatial planning documentation in order to define an individual exploitation field, to conduct tenders and to issue permits, it should be used through the procedure established by the Law on Spatial Planning to define and through units of local self-government which would then clearly be responsible for the adoption of such spatial planning documents. Let me just go back a little bit more for a moment to this law. I welcome, welcome and this is a good initiative to set up a development society to encourage the development of the use of the geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia, I think it is good, this should be done given the very great geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia. He is where there may not be a great economic justification where the state can intervene I think this is a real, real channel how and how to help this additional exploitation of renewable energy sources which are geothermal potentials certainly to make it possible for both the local communities and the Croatian states to gain clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31415	We have several replicas, the first distinguished representative, Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31416	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bačić, here's what's been offered by coming from the town of Karlovac, where there are also test wells in the area of Rijeka, as my colleague Djakic said, I would say that all units of local self-government that have such areas are in the interest of having a more detailed legislative regulation of the process itself, and I agree with what you have stated in your statement that the spatial plans that will essentially determine these areas are the first step. It is in our interest that the areas of research of such sites are well prescribed and the procedure itself is well prescribed because it means that we will then be able to use such resources adequately, because all of this has not been prescribed enough so far and the process has been quite unsettled and we all have an interest in making better regulation so that in the future, in the shortest time, we can start with projects related to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31417	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jelkovac, I have spoken in a large part of my five minutes about the relationship between the requirement on one side of the development, so if you want to explore and exploit the hydrocarbons, on the other hand, to preserve the space they protect, protect the spatial planning documentation and that balance between one side of the request, the need for development, and on the other hand to preserve the space we inherited, is carried out through a spatial plan document. In order for us to be firm in this, in order to have less dilemma in society, it is prescribed that at Croatia level a state development plan, a spatial plan of development of the Republic of Croatia which would then in any case suppress, prevents a number of dilemmas about how and how to access important projects. And projects like this have made projects of importance for the Republic of Croatia. So I call upon the government to come to the assembly. with this document as soon as possible to reduce or introduce a reasonable line in a debate after all. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31419	The next replica representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31420	Dear counterpart Bacic, I will be replicating one sentence you said, the HDZ says knows how to access the exploitation investigation process, and that is exactly what is the problem with this law. What research will be on the burden of the Republic of Croatia, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and exploitation will be a private gain. That's what you get through the whole law, that's what you make possible. And then when you say that you agree that spatial planning documentation is the basis for everything then put into the law that the procedure must be initiated within 8 days after the agency asks to initiate the process of making changes and supplementing the spatial plan. No procedure in local self-government units can last less than 8 days because only sending calls to council members takes 8 days, and 8 days earlier, a call is made. I think it's completely insane. That sort of thing goes into emergency procedure. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31421	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coliar Brumnic, when we need it for our political debates, then we argue that the state is complicated, that the procedures are long, that we cannot solve anything, that at the beginning we are hostile towards entrepreneurship towards work and that the state administration becomes its own purpose. When the law tries to define certain deadlines because, if you want to initiate the procedure, it is also an invitation to the council to discuss the procedure, the procedure of access to the change of spatial planning documentation that the Agency itself must initiate, and in its own procedure, it is very important to explain whether and in what way it is necessary and why the spatial plan should be amended, therefore it does not mean that the process will be completed as it is originally conceived. And I think only the length of the procedure doesn't say anything the final outcome of the procedure. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31423	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31424	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bacic, you said that it would be exploited and questioned by Croatia that laws should be passed, I agree. However, according to the law, the privatisation in Croatia, which is the biggest robbery by law and by law Lex Agrokor is also liquidated, according to the law Mol pays 10% for, 10% concession for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in Croatia, and in Hungary 25%, according to the law you passed two years ago, it was necessary to distribute state agricultural land, and today nothing is distributed, meaning a series of laws that you are unfortunately or are in favour of doing the work you are doing, that you liquidate Croatian property or you are not doing things as you write it yourself in the law because unfortunately you write so bad laws that they do not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31425	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President and colleague... You first have to solve with yourself what is Agrokor for you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is Agrokor Ivica Todorovic and the owners of Agrokor for you or is Agrokor an activity that employs thirty thousand people and also has about 150 000 other people who are suppliers based on the company. That's where we were protecting. We weren't protecting property. To be honest with you, it doesn't even interest me that much. I am interested in whether this activity or this company is of strategic importance preserved, it has been preserved. Are the small suppliers completely calm? They're set. Are the great believers at peace? It is almost 80% which for any bankruptcy procedure in Croatia is a dream and no law with due respect and pre-banking and bankruptcy proceedings has allowed a small supplier, a small Croatian farmer to do so. Therefore, this law is essentially the opposite of what you and I wanted to replicate now. That law gave and showed how good and justifiable he was. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31427	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31428	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. Here comes the thesis that we can't actually do any research, that we simply destroy the environment and as far as I know, there have been no major environmental incidents here in Croatia. It means we're ready and able to conduct certain research. And my second question is how much is Croatia energy independent at this time, and is this research actually going to increase our energy capacity, or energy independence for Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31429	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Shimičević. It shall not be accessible to a regulated State which has the procedure and procedure as established and established. It should also be clear to the end both in large part and in line with a number of European directives that require the definition of the procedure in Croatia. You don't get a license for research and exploitation just like that. There is also what fellow Djakic does not want me to repeat, previous research, geophysical works, underground research when we talk about the sea, soil testing, underground survey when we talk about land. Therefore, these are all the advances that are then launched at this point clearly at the level of the Agency's procedure to approach the establishment of research and exploitation permits. Therefore, it is justified and none of us claim that it is not good. It's good in Croatia set up. The difference is that we are When it comes to researching oil in the Adriatic as a party, it has always been clear about this. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31431	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31432	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, you have devoted most of your discussion to spatial-planning documentation and I agree with you that the spatial plan is a document that defines everything that can be built, where, under what conditions, which is protected in what way etc. Bringing one spatial plan and also changing and supplementing takes one year at a time. There is a public debate, insight into adoption and proposal can be attended by all individuals, companies, institutions, citizens' associations. So, exactly the spatial plan is a prerequisite for everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31433	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31434	Thank you, fellow Striker. Yes, the spatial plan is a document that allows the local community, primarily the local self-government unit and the regional self-government to regulate activities and space in its area. The European Charter of Local Self-Government prescribes this and clearly knows independence, freedom in the spatial arrangement, or arrangement of space managed by individual units of local self-government. But we should be honest and next to say that there are certain strategic Croatian state projects that need to be implemented. If they could be realised for them, there must be a strategic interest which is determined by the Parliament or by the Government depending on which project it is, on the other hand, that there is a spatial-planned document which will then be able to regulate this strategic project that can sometimes be against the will and desire of the unit of local self-government. That's why I said in my introduction that it would be good for the Government to come to the Assembly as soon as possible with a state spatial development plan so that a number of misunderstandings on the ground would be clarified. Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31435	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31436	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. Here's something I want to say about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons in First Reading. We heard the reason why you brought it. Someone from Europe warned us that we didn't do something on time, so we heard the remarks and the reasons why it lasted for two years. I hope we're all happy now, that we'll bring it back. Because there used to be in this House and the European Union of Parties that have more or less always agreed on all European laws and that would go unanimity. But obviously we've left it, and now we're dealing with some kind of political little breakthroughs, so here's something that we don't like because we don't like an article. What were we looking for? We asked for transparency, i.e. those of us so we will put it into that law and agree to be increasingly or less accessible to the public, to the interested public and transparent. That's where we hear we got a problem. Why do we have a problem? Because those of you who have debated in a way like my colleague Bulj have been drilling mountains somewhere, and we say no, let's not drill, then he always says you drill. And now if it's public, transparent, etc. He won't be able to say it anymore. And that's why he's against this. Because they have their own statistics. They always have their own information, information. Because he can say that I don't know how to drill in Suhachi, and we say no. And he says it. And that's what the people must believe. When it's public on the Ministry's website from the beginning to the end, then I guess there shouldn't be any more information like that. And we missed that, and we're going to make it right through this law. Then what else is there to say? It's all about the whole procedure of how the field of exploitation can be created at all. become functional, where all of this must be recorded, and this is where the debates were held today, from the board and now this plenary session, and we have come to the conclusion that local self-government can disable the strategic project of the Republic of Croatia? Then when we swear that we've all been vertical, both regional self-government and local self-government, we're all states. I'm a local leader and I consider myself a part of this country. Should I stand in the way of this strategic project if the state says it's important? There are those who do it. Whether the Council will make a decision or not, i.e. a spatial plan or not? I'm asking, are the county spatial plans included? Whether these exploitation fields should be in their plans, too, because we see what we're experiencing in agglomeration. My county wouldn't let me draw a new purifier because he wasn't in their plan. Well, we have to wait for them to draw so they can solve their agglomeration. They say that's what it says, so let's do it through other readings, and then order them to do their changes from the spatial plan, so we don't wait for them again because we can't go in and check whether it's 8, 15 days after the agency says or a month, whatever. If they're not here, they won't be with us either. So we have to solve this issue because it caused the most debate. Now, this story about hydrocarbons tickles the imagination of our agents, there's no argument that there's not every single one of them. So we have these words of the new left-green, which came out of various prepared incubators, the Institute of Political Ecology, that's what they're called associations, no, and then they say if you don't know, they have budgets in euros and associations, they don't have in kunas, look at their newsletters and the information they're letting in the public. In euro, the budgets of the associations. Of course, in Croatia no one should have it except obviously this institute. And then philosophy on the subject of green policies. What did we hear on the board today? That as little we produce, and gas and oil, we have to worry. But what do they say? They say next. Don't touch anything because we have an alternative, you can't touch anything because if we need gas, we won't be heating up on gas. If we need oil, we won't be driving on oil. We won't because it's 2050 tomorrow. Because I have the strength to hold on until next year because we're just so advanced that these others don't understand us at all. What do we need fossil fuels for, but why isn't Sisak refinery working? Why don't we know, LNG if we can pay more and more expensive gas prices, we can, why did you pick up the gas? Then that's a question after all. Or further, I don't know, don't touch our plains or mountains because gas is expensive, because oil is expensive and we listen here every day and as far as this mayor of ours is concerned, who didn't come to LNG, i.e. at the opening of this LNG, I simply could not believe it after it was manifested by a statement and after the same in accordance with his statement opened Mariščina in late 2015. Maybe I'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31437	Time. Replica, the first distinguished representative, Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31438	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members, today we are under discussion by the opposition representatives as you have noticed, and you could hear enough about whether nature protection or our natural wealth before exploitation. I think that's where we have to start from the principle of proportionality as well as in a number of other social spheres. On the other hand, there was also a good part of the debate being led by them about whether this bill is a unit of local self-government, whether they have been brought into a worse position than they have so far in terms of exploitation. I'm asking you to tell us about it, given that you yourself are the head of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31439	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31440	Thank you very much to my colleague Jelkovac. So far, we are trying really to reach certain levels of energy independence at local level as much as our space does but also how interested investors are. You simply can't do it alone or as a local self-government, if there aren't those who need to come here and do it with their own capital that will invest and wait 10, 20, 30 years. What we hear here is that it should make everything impossible and that we have to protect ourselves as a colleague says, as one protected I don't know, natural, nature park or whatever it is, no, and that we can live. We are on an island of protection, we have seas from all sides and you can only ferry us to, mostly, try to live in those areas and allow something to happen. I've been working on a project of a voltage photovoltaic power plant for years, we've been having problems with the investor, we're trying to solve but we're simply experiencing this debate in a way that we no longer need anything about fossil fuels and that we already have everything in the alternative is pointless. It's just pointless because it's going to be 30 years that we're talking about, no, and the question is, what's going to happen in that time, but they're thinking about it a lot more developed than we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31441	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31442	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I'm going to trouble the transparency here one more time. In order for an idea to come to life, it must go through at least 5 or 6 institutions and respect high European environmental standards. And secondly, is it acceptable for you here to have the thesis that we will not benefit from this research but that the mind and wisdom of men will come here among us and take all that is good and leave us only a mess? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31443	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31444	We've been discussing this way for 30 years in this country, no, we're still alive, we're still here every year trying to be better, along with all of these difficulties that unfortunately reach us from year to year, and I think we're making the most possible that we're really trying to function normally because in this policy that we have on the side of the opposition that I often call wooden iron, meaning incompatible, no, we're fighting every day to try to show that it's that. I am now in my simplest way trying to figure out why the opposition is against, no, why my colleague Bulj is against this. Because it's going to be completely like this law that's going to kick him out in the sense that he can say what he wants here, because the procedures are prescribed by the project and the building permits and the way it can be obtained for some field of exploitation and where it has to be recorded and who can see it all. And then there's no more story of dinar drilling and no one saw or knew where. Because they're always talking about some kind of drilling of this country, and nobody knows where but them. That's why this law and the transparency it introduces is the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31445	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31446	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Boric, you have well defined where all the nebuloses that concern the debate on these amendments and the additions to the law come from. From the nuclear lobby to the green lobbies that finance various associations clearly define the concept of who is where and who works for whom. They are clearly defined through their budgets, you can clearly see who is funding whom and with what intentions. In Croatia, everything should stop and nothing can be done, so everyone else can work. Here are the things that and when we want to improve legal assumptions and laws that will be transparent again are wrong. I haven't heard any of the specifics I've ever heard before when they don't have an answer in the profession, then they move on to political insults and they haven't thrown their way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31447	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31448	Thank you very much. Dear Djakic, we know that the elections are now in a few months and everyone is trying to put together some kind of political platform because it should go to these elections, locally, have some topic. I'm always interested in colleagues from this Green Left block, now they're trying to create a platform. No, they're advanced, they always do everything in advance, much sooner than everyone else. That's why I said that they move out of flats that aren't energy-efficient or they won't be driving in a cab that's not electric. Oh, no? Because they hold to their politics and hold to what they are. There's no way they're driving on another fuel, they're not, because that's what they're like, and that's what they stand for, and that's what they're behind. Except I say in individuals who kind of skip it, no, so it happens to them. But I use a little sarcasm just to make the people understand or the citizens what they're once offered. Because in the last election, if you remember local MOST, he forced a concession. Remember that? We've been hanging here on all the portals as traitors that we'll be concessioning the entire state. And what happened? Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31449	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Willy Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31450	Thank you. Your Honor, you know very well what the consequences of your green policy and your green plan and your former member, Mrs. Rimac, and how it involved everything. And you know very well that Minister Coric is not here today because of this affair. And if you need any help, then of course we offer in all ways very specific examples that because we have worked out with this discussion that is trying to be sarcastic or partially and funny, funny, of course not. You're funny, but it certainly does help, but you're just showing that you're actually against the foundations of European green policy and the European green plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31451	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31452	Thank you very much. Comrade Matula, we are not, we are also agreeing with this Transparency Directive that the interested public and the public have the right to access all information. And from what I hear, you're against this law. And your colleague voted against this law on the board this morning. It means you don't want it. So that's the difference. We're for green I don't know the plan, we're for this, we're for what if it brings the euro into our associations, then we know how to set up a platform to convince those who finance us that we are you. And even these associations are called institutes, beware of the Institute of Political Ecology. Get on their bulletins, look at their budget. They have bigger budgets than some municipalities. Who's working there now? Who's funding? Who are these people who came out of politics then so they're selling us stories here that we don't know anything about, we have no idea how something is being solved, how I don't know how to solve the question of the dump, how recycling issues are being solved, anything about saying and waste management, or today when we're talking about these hydrocarbon projects We just don't know anything about them. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Are they modern? They're already in 2050, we're still in 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31453	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31454	Dear Boric, you always have constructive, professional, quality discussions and this tells us that you almost always have a dozen replicas. It's replicated to someone who knows, who can give an answer, and you've proved here today that you're talking about the subject and the expertise. I have recently replicated my colleague Brumnic and I would like to stress that I agree with your first part, the first two minutes of debate on the fact that it is good to adhere to the EU directive. And then what happens? After that, he doesn't agree with himself. And that's the problem. So if we agree with what replica or discussion of opposition colleagues, then they disagree with each other. Right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31455	Thank you very much. I think we heard on the board today the good information that we're referring to is that we have to pass a law like this and it's okay to bring it in regardless of the debates of our colleagues in the opposition because they're all in some state I don't know. It may take a little and spiritual renewal for them, for they are extremely negative. There's simply no discussion of any law, and there's no negative, personal calling, etc. without much looking at the content. Because I don't know why someone who constantly represents the transparency of an interested public or the public like associations do, the green associations that they represent up there, and they came out, part against this law. I don't know that. They didn't convince me through their discussions that we didn't need this, because they live on it. And now that you're removing this from him, he's becoming insignificant because you can see somewhere else that what he's saying isn't true. That's why my colleague Bulj has a problem telling us later where something is drilling if it's written on the Ministry's website is not where he's talking. That's the problem, and the citizens need to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31456	The next replica is the esteemed representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31457	Dear fellow MP, we are colleagues since we are mayors of the municipalities in the same county, we have a valuable experience of running and operating local self-government. What I'm interested in is two questions. Do you think that 8 days is enough to launch the process of making and supplementing the spatial plan if we know that it is, such a decision taken on the Municipal Council? And my second question, and in the wake of my colleague Bačić's debate, who said that, when strategic projects are at stake, then the interest of the local community falls into another plan, because the strategic interests and interests of the state are important, so I would like to know how you would act if the local population, meaning the Lopar municipality, in a manner of speaking and categorically against a strategic project, would you, as a chief, but also as a parliamentary representative, respect their opinion, or would you bow your head to the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31458	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31459	Thank you very much, colleague Ahmetovic. As for these eight days, I hope it will be more days in the next reading because it is not possible, and I pray that my remark, let's see what with the counties, if these plans have to be drawn, i.e. Exploitation fields are in their plans, so it makes it difficult for us, I guess it'll get rid of it to another, uh, reading. As for protecting its citizens from strategic projects. We all have citizens and we want to be good to them and always be in favor of them, of course, respecting that we are both state and vertical from first to last. From state to local self-government. That's why it was funny for me to explain our mayor, the mayor who didn't want to come to the opening of this LNG terminal because he said next, I'll read it to you now. The government, instead of projecting to build a floating terminal, which does not meet maximum environmental, energy, economic and aesthetic standards, was brought in spite of opposition from local and regional self-government. And then we have Mariscina. If Marišcina fits these standards, ecological, energy, economic and aesthetic, and smells, then he should have refused to go there at all, to open an object he opened, to which he owns and which he manages Then they're some kind of standards. [[Intruder: Time.]] If you open up there and say it, it's great. [[Intruder: Time.]] And this isn't right for me, then it's not the same. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31460	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31461	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you have injured the Rules of Procedure. 238. I'm sorry that you've ever looked back at the mayor and some examples that are not the subject of this debate, so you didn't stick to the subject, and besides, you've replaced me, I asked you a very specific question, but it's embarrassing to answer so that you wouldn't defend the interests of your residents, which you owe, but what's important is to note here that I didn't come to the opening of the LNG terminal as well as the mayor because he's illegal and contrary to the interests of the Primor-Gorski County. the island of Krk and the municipality of Omisalj. [[Intruder: Time.]] But and the [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31462	This was more of a replica, so you get a warning. Next individual debate, Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31463	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. That's a nice hello, everybody. Well, I wasn't at the LNG terminal opening either. But let's get to work. The adoption of this law introduces a more significant transparency of procedures and significant public involvement... Which, of course, absolutely needs to be welcomed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] National legislation will be harmonised with the EU acquis by transposing definitions to the public and interested public. An obligation will be introduced to publish a draft of individual acts relating to oil and mining projects and building permits, and of course, whose component must be environmental protection measures and environmental monitoring programmes from the procedures carried out to assess and assess environmental impacts. In order for the public to have insight into certain conditions issued by the competent authorities for those projects and building permits, it will be published on the Ministry's website. Finally, the public and the interested public will be able to access the judiciary with regard to the authorisation of procedures issued under the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. I personally welcome these changes, and I sincerely hope that it will not just remain a dead letter on paper. As a representative from the 3rd constituency, primarily Krapina-Zagorje County, I welcome, of course, the promotion of geothermal potentials and the establishment of a development society to promote development and use geothermal energy sources. Croatia's Zagorje has already been known for its own, as we call it, spas or thermal spas, which, apart from health tourism, could make an additional contribution to the quality of life in this area, especially if we make good use of the excellent potential of Zagorje thermal sources for providing cheaper heating to villages, cities, agricultural facilities, and of course for the production of clean and renewable electricity. The same is true of thermal sources in Varazdinska and Međimurje County. The exploitation of hydrocarbons, as energy in the economy of a modern and civilised state, must be slowly and reach where it belongs in the 3rd decade of the 21st century, which is at the beginning. Of course, this process is slow and slow. In this context, the search for hydrocarbons is not a priority but a known or unknown reserve, which as such will not disappear, it will always come in handy. Less and less as energy, more and more as unsustainable raw materials for the organic chemical industry. The law mentions the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in several places, but only better use of geothermal sources has a real and true contribution in this direction. Since such projects are complicated and expensive, and local self-government lacks personnel that could be implemented without professional help, I appeal that we should all be involved together, and, of course, the respected secretary of state, so that what is mentioned in this bill is established by a company or any body that would investigate the use of geothermal waters for energy purposes, which is certainly in the interest of the public, and our municipalities and cities would receive the necessary assistance of professionals in order to make it easier to finance and implement these projects. Since energy projects and levels will certainly require EU funds, it is reasonable to expect that local self-government will also be able to rely on the help of competent ministries and agencies and already mentioned companies, which would provide them with and design. aid in the development of tender documentation and all in all, easier access to European Union funds. We are aware that the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons will be the main source of the world's energy demand for decades. But I don't see any reason why we don't start creating and exploiting opportunities here. Good policies attract foreign investors from the clean industry. This part is, of course, also in the plan of the Homeland Movement for Krapina-Zagorska, Varazdinska and Međimurska County where the real preservation of this beautiful part of Croatia is first and therefore attracts a clean industry is something we must do. I welcome this bill and I believe that we will be successful in ensuring green and energy self-sufficient Croatia for the next generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31464	The next individual debate is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31465	Thank you very much. Here during the debate I thought i.e. I calculated that it would be possible to join the competent minister, Coric, with his authority, to explain the developments in the field of exploration of the hydrocarbon exploitation fields. However, this debate came down as my colleague Boris said where Miro Bulj speaks... i.e. A dryer or a Sinj and a cetinal ending which I am proud of. I'm just sorry that his government forgot the Dalmatian Zagora and even the National Strategy. But she didn't forget Dinara, Biokovo, Velebit in the exploitation research that gave foreign investors that... ie. They have been investigating and exploiting for 20 years, and it was signed by Minister Coric. I'm sorry he's not here, he gave the government in 2019 to explain where he was given the right to give foreign investors and to endanger that potential, that landscape that is not only in the sense that he is the endemous area belonging to the Dinarids, but that it is the largest resource of drinking water in Europe pure, clear drinking water that is the resource of the future. And where does he get the right to jeopardize it to please foreign investors? And this isn't the first time you've threatened that part. On several occasions, there have been harmful projects in these areas. And it's not only Joseph the Roman's fault. She has her helpers who can put pressure on people to do their job, and one day I'll talk about it and soon. So, she's not the only one to blame for Krš Padjane, and if the Bridge were destructive and working badly, then we wouldn't be the first ones to give in the last term and now it seems to me on the agenda of the Microsolars Act to solve families of socially endangered families where Croatia half a billion kuna a year, which is local, which regional, which gives state authority social aid to people for heating, to put microsolares on roofs, would solve the problem that these people have. And not only those areas, but the great concern of Milorad Pupovac for national minorities is that he does not say that in these areas we have microsolares to solve these areas, because I come from these areas too, no one cares. But Boric can be mocked here, the snowflake Plenkovic is known to mock here with people, with proposals that he makes unimportant to the left and right. I was an activist. I stopped throwing expense from the Long War at Rudokopa near Cetina in my village. I was the one. I stopped Minister Coric with a crazy decision to transport garbage from Vrgorec to the Cetin area along the Cetin River to the dump. I am and now I am struggling to complete the project of agglomeration which is Croatian water, a water pipeline, and in particular Croatian water and it has threatened with bad estimates because the project team contains people from Croatian waters. 150 million were missed. But, of course, the people of Sinja deserve the Cetina region and Cetina from where all of Dalmatia is powered. In the end, the perspective will be from Cetina because we know what happens to the source of Jadro, we know what happens to Krka. Of course we'll fight. Here I was today invited to Croatian water on agglomeration because I had to show here, unfortunately, the truth that the open sewerage in the 21st century enters the clear, clear river Cetina. And after that, I was invited by the Croatian Waters. You know what happened? I feel the problem will be solved. Today, due to the urgent obligations in Petrinja, the director of Croatian Waters says he will send me an explanation. Well, of course you'll handle it. Whether or not you want to settle this according to the Cetina region, according to Cetina, which produces 40% of the Republic of Croatia's hydropower, according to the Cetina region which pays Croatian waters to maintain the canal and everything that needs to be maintained. They do nothing, they do nothing, and of course you will do a sewerage from EU funds that are funded, and the project that is Croatian Waters, City of Sinj and which introduced the project, which are on the project team if they have made a mistake and is not the people's fault. It's not the people's fault of the Cetina region that only gives, and nothing returns to it. Well, that's not gonna be the way it's gonna be. You will make and see that today this very letter from the director of Croatian Waters shows that I was on a good track and that a project of agglomeration will be made of Sinj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31466	Okay. We have a replica of Željko Pavić's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31467	Your Honor, I'd just like to point out that it's clear to everyone. The opposition is not against good law. The opposition is not against the law that will increase transparency. That's why we've made a few remarks Mr. Secretary has accepted. He said those remarks would be corrected. We hope that they will be corrected, especially those remarks concerning local self-government and the adoption of spatial plans, and we hope that this will then be in line with what we expect as well as our public. The other problem, unfortunately, is that there is one part of the MPs on the right who misread our debate. And he's trying to use sarcasm to show that we're unserious and that we're having an unserious discussion. It's not an unserious debate. And what Djakic said about us wanting nothing to do in Croatia is not true. That's what they do. They sold the INA, they closed the refineries, they let foreign companies draw our oil and our gas. We didn't let that happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31468	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31469	Yes, strategically when we talk about fossil fuels, strategically, i.e. The largest energy company in Croatia INA, all governments, any SDPs, up to the last nail nail nail nail nails, have destroyed and surrendered into their hands, not destroy but hand over to the Hungarians our INA, our tribal-developed pearl. And now at the same time, we're told by the tributary of fossil fuels, and now that INA we've given to foreigners in our hands to the foreign owner of the Hungarians, we're going to be open, I have nothing against the Hungarians, they're looking at their own interests. I'm sorry our government isn't looking at its own interest, in that case. Now you will drill, explore and exploit the most beautiful areas that we have to guard and the most potential areas of strategic resource is water and endanger water on our Velebit, Dinara, Biokov, Kozjak, Svilaj, Kameshnica. Now that's the problem with what they put into the hands of strangers without a kuna, and now they're drilling.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31470	I now call the final debate on behalf of Representative Mira Bulj on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31471	Once again, on behalf of the club MOST, I would like to express a great disappointment that in the case of such important laws where they are done, the essential laws that we generally prescribe and do not apply. The Croatian Parliament has passed many laws and directives, the EU's regulation under cover of harmonisation as if it were our command. We're a specific state that has its advantages that we'd like to take advantage of. At this point, I can't believe the minister didn't do well to come. I believe that there is enormous pressure from entrepreneurs on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to have this obligation to preserve this lobby within the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and other intruders. But in this case, I would just like to say to whom it occurred to risk the biggest Croatian resource by the sea, agricultural land to endanger water, drinking water, karst, karst area, Croatian part of Dinarid, Velebit, Dinara, Svilaj, Kameshnica, Biokovo. All those areas, Mosor. All these areas are rich, karst with drinking water. And they gave 2019 the opportunity to drill, explore and exploit. And we're going to jeopardize the key resource, and that's water. Water is currently a resource of the future. That's what we should be able to master. Not like we've managed to master that we've given the source of Cetina for 5,000 kuna concessions per month to a stranger. So we have the potential and we're trying to keep it safe. Like agglomeration projects, I'm gonna say it one more time. Remember the other day, I wrote to the ministers that this project of agglomeration of Cetina would be compromised, i.e. aglomeration Sinj project which is the Cetinski end of 60,000 people, 50,000 people pardon more than Ličko-Senj County, and the Cetinski end is bigger than Međimurje County. The most perspective area from Savudrija to Prevlaka is in the hinterland of Split that several good projects such as the fast road, compounds on the highway of the Cetina region. We would thus also preserve our Cetina with which we have an alka, ma'am, we have what tourist offer, we have an airport, we have our Dinara, we have the Svilaj, we have the Kameshnica, we have the High. But absolutely and exclusively, and only harmful projects are being pushed. So research that does not go in the interests of the people, but in the interests of foreign investors and the people will not return 20% instead of using the possibility of micro solars, we do quite the opposite. We are doing harmful projects that are expensive, which are in line with this Plenkovic snowflake, Mr. Boric, I must say instead of micro solars, i.e. You place solars on the roofs as much as we give solvence to wind power plants per year we could solve all the buildings of a public institution, private houses to micro solars in five years. And our family to be an independent family in Croatia, energy not that local self-government must separate our socially endangered people every year from money and keep them dependent on it with these subsidies. It wasn't about that. We've got sundays at the most. We have people who are like Mr. Roman who have new technologies in which we are trying to invest in Croatia. What do we have today? We have that we are not capable of a European project of Croatian water with local water supply and with the town of Sinj. Croatian waters are the most guilty. And you can't pilot the hand of a minister, you can't. He signed those contracts, he followed it, his people are on the project team. His men are in the selection committee's most favourable offer. And of course, here's another one. Today I was invited to a meeting after I brought here a bottle of, unfortunately, the kind of liquid it is, the way it affects Cetina. It's come that he can't see me today because of the great obligations in Petrinja's director, and that he'll send me an explanation. The only explanation I accept and the people of the Cetina region, only for agglomeration, build the sewers, secure the funds. If you could in other parts of Vira and others then you will ensure that you believe me both Sinja and the Cetina region.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31472	A final debate on behalf of the applicant. Dear Secretary of State Ivo Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. I thank you for your debate that this has been like always about hydrocarbons quite this, interesting and always challenging and additional topics that in principle have nothing to do with hydrocarbons, but that is, thank God so, and there is obviously nothing you can do about it. What I want to highlight at the end of the debate, which is that this topic that we have mentioned about spatial plans, we will absolutely in between the 2 readings further consult and agree with the remarks of both the two and the third parliamentary representatives that it means making sure that these deadlines are real and this, and clearly thought of both the county and the city. It's not a topic at all. Logically, we go to the county first, and then we go to the cities because the county's spatial plans are on the roof. As for the debate, multiple debates by Mr. Bulj on the subject that we will drill mountains, Dinara, Velebit, our pearls, once again for the Croatian public, I must say that in all the plans, in all the contracts, in all the investigative premises, in all the procedures of the mountain, are out of the question. They do not come into consideration, not only because they are not areas where they are intended to be drilling, they and in one practical sense do not come into consideration. So what a crazy man would drill a mountain to get to some layer that's down below the mountain. I mean, it's logical to drill into areas that are low-level and that are so set up, and here when we talk again about all these Dinarids, so we have this one concession in the like area, so it's neither Dalmatia nor Straight Wheels or anything, but it's Lika. Well, clearly, if something had happened there, it would have been very useful for that end in the sense that both financially and in every sense, everything would have helped. As for mentioning here from some of the lawsuits and the process being conducted, the company Amlin mentioned. It has absolutely nothing to do with hydrocarbons, it's about one project that was on biomass. So who's had some problems and some kind of slow-down, that's true, but that's true, so that the carbon theme, the geotherms, there are no disputes. I mean, they've got carbon disputes when it comes to INA and everything that's known to everyone, but there are no additional disputes. When it comes to this development society, there have been several representatives on the subject. I didn't like the comment that we're investing in money, and then someone's gonna take some money again. What Mr. Dretar has exhibited here and in one way expressed his local community's opinion is absolutely there in which direction we would eventually go. So there are drills that are commercially invaluable. This means that if you go in a commercial way to concession that well, drill, or equip, place the plant and everything else, there is no account that would bring that investment back to that investor. But if there is, say, a place and a place where local self-government or regional self-government would like, let's say, that there are, to build a spa, at such a source that is not so commercial, why don't we, through a development society, state, local self-government, ask together, go to the project, go to certain grants, invest in that society, means the grants shouldn't be returned, and that society would later have its own calculation to work and to contribute to the social community. It's the idea of a development society, so for that it's put into law that if there's such initiatives, something should be done about it. As far as the plan is concerned, and I said that, as far as the general idea of why we're going into hydrocarbon research is concerned, clearly we're going because our reserves are practically not enough for 10 years, because we're importing 2 billion and 260 million euros of raw oil and gas derivatives together. It's huge money, it's for our economy a huge amount that we're importing, and clearly we're not optimistic that we can substitute it with domestic production. But if we're in a situation that in 10 years we don't have a liter of our own crude oil anymore, then that's not good. We've come to the gas at 888 thousand cc's. We all know we're spending 2.5 billion to 3 billion, so we've come completely into the neighborhood with gas, and in 2007, we had 3 billion cc's of gas production. So, as far as that goes, those are the reasons I wanted to tell you about. I thank everyone for the debate, and I am obliged, clearly and to react to this personal attack that I have experienced by Mr. Whiteman who is not unusual to him, but I can also say one thesis. The fact that one professional player has changed three clubs, no one has ever put into a dilemma that this professional player does not play football well. The Convention on Human Rights makes it clear that man has the right to change his mind and his commitment. I am, in my opinion, an absolute man who is a worker, who believes in the science of Antun Radic, Stjepan Radic and follows the pragmatic policy of Vladka Maček, who was one of the good part of the years and in HNS and I think that HNS is also a good Croatian party who unfortunately, along with HSS, came to these branches today where she came and would feel very bad if I stayed in one and another organisation. All my political life since I was 90, I've worked very well with the HDZ at local level, even as an HNS officer twice I've been elected head of the municipality in a coalition with HDZ. It means that I have nothing to be ashamed of today that I volunteered to join HDZ especially because it is at the head of the party Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and I am proud of it. And Mr. Beljak let him think about his moral, social and every integrity, and I only here tell him from this pay phone that he should go his own way, and I will go my own way. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31474	We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj He's giving up. [[Intruder Bull: I give up.]] Replica Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31475	Thank you very much. State Secretary, Minister of State, 24 January 2019, in Sibenik, a meeting with the mayors is said to be a question of research, drilling Dinarid: "We are conducting research that will take 5 to 7 years, and only when we discover how much oil there is in the area of Velebit, Dinara, Mosor and Biokova we can talk about exploitation." Which means you said that only a crazy man can say that, you have now offended the minister. Are you aware of what you said? There is also a tone that I will play in the video of what you said and what Minister Coric said. And when you say 2 billion that we buy the euro of oil we import, so you gave the foreign investor to exploit hydrocarbons, and you closed the Sisak refinery that was promised to buy INA from the burned and sold INA to foreigners at the expense of the Croatian people. The strongest hydrocarbon power company. So deny yourself once more, or Minister Coric, about a statement about the research and drilling of Velebit and Dinara.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31476	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31477	I'm sure Minister Coric said he said exactly what he had to say and what was in that context, and you probably took it out of context and now you're saying that he said something different. What I'm saying here's the director of the hydrocarbons agency who's doing it. I've been told where and what we have in place. I just told you that, and that's the whole story. As far as strangers are concerned, you are constantly burdened with these strangers. These are all Croatian companies. INA is a Croatian company that works in Croatia and even has Croatian co-ownership in the Croatian company and what Croatian companies conduct in Croatia is Croatian oil, Croatian gross national income, Croatian energy security and that is all Croatian. And I don't let you keep imputing to us that we're some foreign servants here. We are servants of the Croatian State here, and I will be as long as I work for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31478	Injury of Rules of Procedure Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31479	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The secretary of state injured Article 238 where INA is a Croatian company. INA operates in Croatia and the hara, and is committed in the hands of the Hungarians, it is handed over to the Hungarians at the expense of the Croatian people, where it took the minority stakes over most of them, and it was built by all governments from the SDP with white eyes Slavko Linic to the last nail that was shoved by the government of Plenkovic, where even our members in the administration have no right to vote. You've betrayed national interests by all... [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31480	This was a replica. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31481	I am truly sorry that you gave more attention and concentration in your opening presentation to the interpretation of your political path that I must admit is not at all interested in, but rather in explaining the substance of the law that you should present and present. And speaking of substances, you mentioned Lika, so I'm really curious about what concrete plans are in terms of issuing oil and mining licenses in the area. In what way will biodiversity and generally natural heritage be preserved? And have you thought about how this law will reflect on the increase in the potential economic prosperity of the personal land?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31482	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31483	Thank you, Your Honor. I am, this was not an opening exhibition, but a final one, and I looked back at the debate that was and I touched the topic that was under discussion. And as for like, we are, we have a concessionary there, and that's INA. He, in accordance with that company, is in accordance with the law and does everything that needs to be done under the law. What all procedures are done will be transparent. In the event of a possible discovery, it is clear that this would then reflect the very end in Lika because it is now reflected in the fact that Lika-Senj County will receive certain funds just because preliminary research is being done. And if the discovery were to be made, then it would be clear later that the community would benefit from the concession significantly under the new law, which is much more productive than the 10% that were the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31484	Thank you, Secretary of State. We've exhausted the whole debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we're gonna take a 10-minute break for the ventilation, so we're gonna keep working in 14.40 minutes. It's 2:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31486	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.42 HOURS]] How much? Six of them all together in the hall. We move to the next point, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 101. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 175. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Ivo Milatic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31487	The adopted amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act shall be brought into line with the amendments to the EU energy efficiency regulatory framework resulting from the adoption of the EU Directive 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 amending Directive 2012/27 on energy efficiency. That Directive establishes a common legal framework for the promotion of energy efficiency within the EU after 2020 when so-called the second period of cumulation of energy savings that Member States are required to achieve in the period from 2021 to 2030. The first cumulative period was between 2014. Until 2020. When the target of 20% reduction in energy consumption was set compared to the 2005 base year. In the second cumulative period that began in 1.1.2021 and lasted 10 years. The goal is to achieve at least 32.5% reduction in energy consumption compared to consumption in 2005. The directive also prescribes the continuity of energy savings and in the new cumulative periods since 2030. These amendments and additions to the laws shall transpose into national legislation the specific obligations which we are obliged to fulfil as a Member State. Thus, the law violates the objective of not spending more than 8.23 million tonnes of equivalent primary energy oil in the Republic of Croatia in 2030, i.e. 6,85 million tonnes of equivalent oil in final energy consumption. In order to achieve this objective and the planned development of society, it will be necessary to implement energy efficiency principles throughout all sectors and activities. First, the principle built into the law requires all economic activities and future projects to be seen as a contribution to measures to improve energy efficiency. The principle aims to facilitate sustainable investment in energy, transport, construction, industry and others in terms of more efficient use of energy in all phases of the energy chain from production to final consumption. The application of the principle will separate the increase in energy consumption conditioned by intensifying economic and social activities which so far have been the rule. This encourages technological development, innovation, digitisation and a series of activities that deliver higher income with a reduction in energy consumption. Following this Directive, the Directive stipulates that Member States are obliged to achieve energy savings in the final energy consumption and that a methodology for determining the amount of mandatory and cumulative energy savings to be achieved during a specific cumulation period is laid down. To calculate the average amount of new annual energy savings during the first cumulative period from 1 January 2014 to 31 August 2020 was set at 1 and a half percent of the average energy delivered to final customers in 2010, the 11th and 12th year amounted to RH 54.25 beta of julain or 1295 tonnes of equivalent oil. The average amount of new annual energy savings during the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2030 was prescribed for 0.8% of the average final energy consumption in 2016, 17 and 18 years was calculated in the integrated national energy and climate plan and is 125.33 beta-joint or 2993.7 kg of equivalent oil should therefore be saved for nearly three million tonnes of oil. The difference in the size of the savings, the pardoned amendments to the law were also made in the sense that the basic document on the planning of savings and monitoring of the effective implementation of the directive is the integrated national energy climate plan, so on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Management of energy unions and climate action that prescribes the development of national energy efficiency action plans as a systematic part of the integrated national and energy and climate plan. The NEC was worked in 2018 and adopted in its final version by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2020. All documents planned in energy are in line with the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which this House adopted in 2020, and also with the National Development Strategy. The law also sets out the obligations for individual participants in the energy market. In this respect, the mandatory cumulative energy savings targets will continue to be achieved through a combination of energy efficiency and alternative policy measures, as decided by the basic Law of 2014 through alternative policy measures to be implemented by the State and defined in the National Energy and Climate Plan, which include measures defined by the National Building Fund's 2050 recovery strategy, assessing the potential of 30 % of the total savings needed by 2030. It should be noted that, for the previous period, between 2014 and 2020, mandatory cumulative savings were foreseen by a combination of alternative measures, 50.1% of the policy and 49.9% of the mandatory energy efficiency system. The Energy Efficiency Obligation System for Energy Entities, which became operational in 2019, has so far received excellent results from around 24.02 petajoule savings, without 2020, and we will have these data. The objective in this system is projected to be achieved. Energy operators have easier access to final customers and apply a series of measures that cannot be realised in the alternative system. The data therefore demonstrate the importance of the energy efficiency obligation system and its potential to achieve savings in a cost-effective manner and ensure that these amendments and amendments to the law are regulated in the future. In this context, this law details the mandatory savings system in which energy entities need to achieve 70% of the total target by 2030. On the other hand, investing in an alternative savings system, i.e. by alternative measures, will achieve a little more than 10.03 petajules by 2020, so less than half of the planned savings. It should be noted that in this system measures are mainly linked to savings that are more expensive and have a longer life span, such as building reconstruction, but cannot be accumulated through 2 cumulative periods, which is clearly highlighted by law and directive. As stated above, the law lays down the links between those strategic and planning documents in the field of energy efficiency, i.e.... Long-term strategies to encourage investment in the reconstruction of the National Fund of 2050 buildings are also carried over by amending and supplementing the law, parts of the Directive relating to consumer rights, i.e. customers, which are linked to the measure and the calculation of energy consumption and hot water consumption, which particularly highlights the importance of the issue of individual measurement and accounting of heat consumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this respect, the removal and violation of EU law related to the transposition of the 2012 Energy Efficiency Directive, which is in force, as regards each separate building, should have a criterion of heat energy. These measurements are the preconditions and further development of the efficient use of warm water heat in a particular building or building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31488	Thank you very much. Stay, we have more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31489	... Your Honor. [[Specially enabled.]] I have to admit that more or less every law that enters the procedure has one sentence to reflect. The draft law is in line with EU legislation and a declaration of compliance is also delivered. I wonder, does Croatia have any ambition at all to work on its own plans, strategies and laws and to implement them later, and that is not something that is done purely in order to satisfy EU requirements? I must note that there is not a single word, either in the law or in its reasoning that says, in what particular way, what concrete measure will help reduce our citizens' energy poverty? So please explain, since you mentioned that we brought the Strategy back in 2020, how is this actually going to work? But not floscule, a concrete measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31490	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31491	Thank you. As far as the law is concerned, they are harmonising with directives and harmonising with the life that is under way. It is about energy legislation that really changes every, on average, every two years and this process is continuous. As for energy poverty, we have here specifically, this one, prescribed that the measures made by the entities, and in terms of eliminating energy poverty, let's say, as is now in the earthquake of the affected area, where certain accounts will be forgiven and this one, they will also be accounted for in the savings of those entities and that part that we have in the budget that is collected from 0.3 lipa per account of 150 million, it is specifically used to reduce energy poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31492	The next replica is respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31493	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. You mentioned the principle of energy efficiency first, but I am interested, in the article. 2. of this proposal of the Law is already in line with this principle, i.e. the application of this principle is a structure in which it is applicable. So this principle will apply to the creation of sectoral policy measures, but where applicable. I'm interested in what sectoral policies in which the application of this principle is not applicable in view of the width of its, as you would say, termological expression of the principle itself? I don't see where that isn't applicable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31494	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31495	Thank you. Well, it's so standardized because there's got to be a situation where it probably won't be applicable, so then we left that, this one, let's say, if you have some kind of facility that, in a technological sense, exists now and we can't get new technological solutions to make this facility more efficient. Then we can't force this obligor to be even more effective if there's no in the technological sense of a facility that's more efficient. Those situations will be very small. That's where I'd agree with you, but we have to leave it in the law so we don't force someone who's bound to do something objectively that can't because there are technological constraints. That's the point of it, wherever there's a technological possibility, clearly we'll force it to be more efficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31496	The next replica is respected representatives of Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31497	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, these are the objectives of support and I don't think there's any dispute here. But we can see that by now, a little more than 2 billion kuna has been invested through programmes mainly co-financed by European Union funds, making public buildings, public buildings, more housing, but also family houses. Now, I'm interested in it because we have a lot of housing units, mostly family houses, which, the question is, how static do they meet certain conditions? They don't have any vertical serks, and anyone can make sure they drive a little bit by car to any side. We've seen in Banovina how devastating this is, and is there a possibility of looking for some kind of static certificate or something from the statisticians before we spend our money on the energy recovery again?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31498	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31499	Thank you. As far as this area is concerned, which is threatened by the earthquake means Zagreb, Banovina will now be. It's absolutely heading towards not only being energetic, but being static and energetic. Clearly, it'll collect the whole story, but there's just no way out. So the general position of both the European Union and our ministry is that complete reconstruction must be covered by everything and this unital part of static and this insulation windows, doors and all that is. So we're going in the direction that there's no point in just putting the envelope and the new prisons, but also seeing what's with the heating, which is with the installations and what's with all that inside that if we're going to strive with... so zero-emission buildings means they have to be maximumly equipped plus possibly and renewable sources... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31500	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Rada Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31501	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I think we Croats are eco-aware and we take care of energy consumption. I don't know what you think. Examples of good practice, I come from Zadar or Zadar County and there are all educational and educational institutions practically past the energy recovery. They have withdrawn funds from the European Union and it is quite different now to be in these institutions. I'm interested in how much energy we're spending right now, and how much will we spend until 2050 or 60 if the recovery intensity is like this? And what are the administrative obstacles to the implementation of these projects? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31502	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31503	I absolutely agree with you that these buildings are still public and are not restored, in the next period... Use the resources of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan to restore it. [[You don't understand.]] As far as people's minds are concerned, it's very high-level because the interest that people show when the competition says that I'm that people have started to think, they realize that's okay. We also through trading have made it possible for people to make their private investment possible and charge for selling that bond savings... As for how much energy we're going to spend, here's the opening. So in 2030, we have to spend 32% less energy than in 2005, and in 2050, we need to get closer to saving. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31504	The next replica is the respected MPs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31505	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State is one of the elements for increasing energy efficiency and energy recovery of buildings for which we have a long-term strategy until 2050. A significant prerequisite for its implementation is a sufficient number of specialised energy reconstruction companies, which will have a sufficient number of professional and certified workers. Unfortunately, we are faced with a lack of labour caused by the outflow of construction workers abroad, but also with insufficient enrolment of students who are educated in construction professions. Long-term labour imports are not a solution. We must ensure an increase in the number of domestic workers by using dual education systems and, of course, using lifelong education. It means more active animation of students for enrollment in construction professions and unemployed persons for retraining. I believe it's important and... No, I don't. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31506	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31507	We are aware of this fact that Croatia will certainly happen, as will the vast majority of European Union countries, that the national recovery and resilience plan will bring significant resources, and that we will likely have labour problems and companies that will need to do this huge job. Clearly, the Ministry of Spatial Planning through which this part of the work, when it comes to this type of efficiency, is going on quite consciously. The Government will also make sure that some decisions and orientations and in terms of education, both in terms of possible work permits and in terms of other removals of administrative barriers, allow these companies to be supplied as much as possible and that this renewal is as intensive as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31508	The next replica is the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31509	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State if I am well aware by amending this law our citizens will have the right to clear and transparent information on the calculation of electricity consumption, natural gas, heat energy, spent hot water on which it is possible to monitor or manage consumption. So far, electricity bills, gas were at least at the level that you have to be an astrophysicist to figure out what you're paying for and how much you're paying for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31510	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31511	Thank you. That's right. The aim of the European Union and thus Croatia is to save energy, to make energy as cheap as possible and clear as possible to be the buyer who is at the centre of the whole story means to know every moment how, how, how, in which way and to be able and to change the supplier and supplier as quickly and as efficiently as possible. So it's in our interest as a government to keep the customer as informed as possible to force people who are dealing with the supply of energy to be as organized and more efficient and efficient as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31512	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Predrag Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31513	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, I am interested in whether this law will allow us to use the European Union's funds for energy efficiency again as it has been for the past four years, specifically in buildings, at home, in multi-state buildings, in public buildings? We used more than 2 and a half billion kunas of these funds and reduced energy consumption extremely, extremely much, and we should also think about this industry of our construction industry that uses these funds and had one... One contest and a lot of work, nothing to do. [[You don't understand.]] Is this law going to be possible then and make all the other acts and all the other documents that we have secured work for these people, but of course we're saving energy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31514	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31515	I think this law just goes on with the good practice of the old law, and it's still putting it together. Clearly, it remains an obligation for local self-government units to make their own plans. As soon as they make their plans, that's the basis for any means they can get based on these plans. It is clear to us in the interest that the issue of the funds does not end. I think now and already there's one good part of the year that's ahead of us the means in that sense won't be missing. ... means the national recovery plan, the PKK and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which this year significantly raised its scale in terms of energy recovery funds. [[You don't understand.]] So that I can agree with you that as a resolute ministry and the Ministry of Spatial Planning, we will make sure that these funds are in order for these companies to actually continue to live and not ask for bread in other markets, but in Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31516	The Republic also has a respected representative, Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31517	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm interested in two things. First, what is the state of energy efficiency in the field of energy reconstruction of buildings, when I say building, I mean all buildings and those for housing and family houses, today compared to, say, 10 years ago? And another thing, if you have information, did the COVID crisis somehow affect energy consumption in 2020?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31518	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31519	The state of energy recovery is certainly better today than before. The actual figures now should consult literature to tell you, but they are absolutely larger and have grown significantly. But that is not what pleases us, given that more than 80 percent of the Croatian housing fund is in private hands and we are unlike the other European Union countries where this percentage is different, very interested in restoring as much of these buildings as possible to make them more efficient and efficient. What is certain, it is true that in 2019, you think very definitely in 2020 that this last year will be very certain to be less energy consumption, because it is enough that the tourist season has been halved. Then you realize that energy will be less spent there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31520	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club should speak to the respected representative Hrvoja Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. So he will speak on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31521	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected secretary of state with an associate. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act is unfortunately the result again of the European Union pressure to comply with the directives under this legislative proposal and I have now quoted what State Secretary Milatic said on the Committee on Environmental Protection that we had this morning. It is important here to note that the basic objective of the Energy Efficiency Directive is to remove the shortages in the energy market and to establish clear mechanisms for achieving energy and environmental objectives such as reducing dependence on energy imports, increasing health security and reducing environmental pollution. Today, State Secretary Mr. Milatić confirmed in his discussion on the board what we all know is that we have a major decline in fossil fuel production. We're talking gas and oil. 30 years ago, we produced more gas than we spent, and this is not bad knowledge in developed countries that replace this decline in fossil fuel production or compensate for renewable energy sources. But it's bad for our country, which compensates for this decline in production by importing the same fossil fuels. If that were not the case then, this fact would be positive in the field of contributing to energy efficiency and to all that the directive to which this proposal is harmonised and promoted. The share of renewable energy in energy consumption in Croatia is around 28%. I would be happier if we had established a clear and transparent system to guarantee a gradual but unequivocal transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources in such a way as to impose an obligation on fossil fuel producers to invest in renewable energy sources, and to sell any excess of fossil fuel production, and not to give to others at affordable prices. This is a clear and unequivocal commitment to energy efficiency. As is a clear and unequivocal principle of energy efficiency first, which is the subject of this bill, or which this law also promotes. This principle concerns the need for all economic activities and future projects to be seen through the contribution of measures to improve energy efficiency. Therefore, in Article 2 of this proposal, it is unacceptable that exceptions and exceptions to this principle are already sought. In fact, the text of the article itself says that the principle of energy efficiency will apply in the design of sectoral policies in which this is applicable in the Republic of Croatia. First, if we know that energy efficiency is the relationship between energy and energy consumption in order to achieve this effect, then there is no need to predict in advance a situation where energy efficiency will be the primary principle in the design of sectoral policy measures is not the first and primary. It must simply be due not only to the transition to renewable energy sources, but also to the need to pay particular attention to the rational use of public funds in all sectors of action, including those going towards energy consumption. As regards the legislative proposal on the Environment Committee, I asked a question on the implementation of the new European Union Directive adopted in 2020, which concerns the regulation of the contribution of energy communities to the energy efficiency of the Member States of the Union. This directive has not been implemented today in this legislative proposal, but I have received in response from State Secretary Milatić an indication of the possibility that the law is likely to change again in the future in this regard. To explain in layman's language. Energy communities and the regulation of their activities would allow the production of energy and exchange of energy between different entities such as schools and hotels. This way concrete energy efficiency is achieved because, for example, schools need energy in winter when they are open when teaching takes place, while hotels need energy in summer. This would allow the exchange of that amount of energy between these two entities, for example, that energy itself produces, for example, through its own solar photovoltaic power plants, which are sufficient for their own purposes. Then we could talk about energy self-sufficiency at least at the lowest local level. On this trail, and by appealing to the urgent design of concrete and this bot-up measures to achieve energy efficiency and formulate a clear policy of transition to renewable energy sources, I repeat what I have proposed during the debate on the National Development Strategy. Citizens pay incentives for renewable energy sources in their electricity bills, and then the state spends it in a strange way granted privileged conditions to large renewable energy producers instead of paying them back to the same citizens. No one in the state is thinking that it's possible to establish what's called a so-called a circular economy that inevitably brings down greenhouse gases, energy efficiency and economic development, respects public interest, the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. One way is by returning to the pockets of citizens is to impose, among other things, the fees that are charged on electricity bills for renewable energy sources can encourage the engagement of savings held by citizens in banks to set up small photovoltaic power plants to cover their own energy needs, which also encourages the production of photovoltaic equipment that can be produced by Croatian companies and can be employed by Croatian workers. One of the measures to boost energy efficiency at national level has been introduced by the neighbouring country of Slovenia, which has singled out a million-and-a-half euros of incentives for green jobs. This encourages the national economy and national businesses to turn to green energy. Croatia is a country full of potential, full of professional and capable people, but lack of ambition, in this case a lack of stronger ambition, and even if we are talking about the formation of this bill always kind of pushes us into that kind of actually a follower, not a leader. We ourselves have examples of good practice precisely in achieving energy efficiency goals. Even Europe recognized us, so I remind you that the Secretariat of Clean Energy of the island has classified the Croatian island, the island of Krk among the 10 energy-sustainable islands of the European Union all because it was ambitious and did not want to be a follower, but a leader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31522	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the Mosta in a name to be spoken by the respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31523	Thank you very much. Energy efficiency in the Republic of Croatia is our key resource, and these are God-given sunny days that we have are least exploited. So we, as a club in the last term, were giving the Microsolars Act that we called it and we think that I said it, and a little while before that it's all about whether energy and a little before hydrocarbons, and now when we talk about energy efficiency, I think that this potential in the Republic of Croatia is used less than half percent, 0.3% while let's say the benefits of Finland that has less sunny days, and that's not only to strengthen the independence of the family of energy independence when we're talking we'd actually lose that asset out of our hands, and that means we have people, we have a monopoly on energy, and in this way we would all be. all citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be both producers and consumers. Croatia uses at least in the Mediterranean. Far away Italy has gone. Greece uses its sun and its potential far away. But in us we get mostly privileged large, mostly large, or those who are lucky to use their finger as a quick finger, the fastest finger. If you don't have the Internet, like in my area, the best Internet when it's public procurement, when offers are opened, then who squeezes faster, but there are people who don't have the Internet so that right now people in that Croatia and our country are not equal before the Constitution, and that quick finger is ugly. I think that's the worst thing. It's just that these projects are supposed to be the entanglement of the Republic of Croatia. And the Microsolars Act that we gave him enabled everyone in the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, once again, energy efficiency contributes also to reducing electricity consumption and these investments trigger construction, people who deal with construction. Now imagine that we, who give examples of wind power subsidies such as Krš – Padjane in the Republic of Croatia, give about a billion-and-a-half kuna per year, renewable sources of energy by government decision 2015, which was the ministry by Mr. Vrdoljak at that time in the government of Zoran Milanovic were brought to the last session where wind power plants were subsidized through renewable sources. Only for that money we give investors, i.e. People who live here have now been set up by wind power plants that no part of Croatia is from these wind power plants. While microsolares from project to production, everything can be made in the Republic of Croatia. So local self-government and regional self-government half a billion kunas each year pay our families a socially endangered incentive for heating no matter who has what, and especially in these rural two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia. We're all about Banovina now. She just exposed the bad policies towards that end. That's how it is in the mountain of Dalmatia, the Drenjska region, the rest of those parts that have been forgotten. They're moving out, the Imot landscape and the mountain cotter that has its potential. If we'd gone that way with the money we give about tens of thousands of socially endangered families, we'd have put them on their microsolare facilities. And that should be pursued by all laws, sublaws, plans that we don't essentially pay half a billion kunas every year to socially vulnerable people who are dependent on not only have no money, and this would give them the opportunity for every socially endangered family to be energy independent at least in that part. They wouldn't be dependent on, for example, local leaders. These local leaders will be before the local elections, they will be given thousands of kunas for energy and will help them pay their energy from taxes, taxes and everything they have collected, and in fact those people who are not responsible for the situation will mostly be addicted to this situation and will have to give a voice in the end, and they did not give that or the mayor their money. So it would be wise to compensate. Do not create dependent families about local leaders mostly these two-thirds of Croatia speak empty. It means we use as many solars as we can. I have an example of where a man is a 100% disabled Homeland War, he had his own building, an object that worked with the intention of having a freezer there and something like that that needed the Cetina landscape in production. The man made seven, in 2013, I invested 60,000 euros in solar panels, and he couldn't possibly get into the quota. So he never won the quota, the day he didn't join today. So it hasn't even joined today. But if they'd gone into great concert Agrokor, these, they would have, or some privileged one that seconds before midnight before the 1st of the year would've gotten essentially those incentives. That's also the question of the agency, the issue of regulatory bodies and so on. I think we use the sun very little, and that statistics shows you're as aware as I am. And now surely the state will strive to use the sun's energy, we're the Mediterranean state. God has given us a great number of sunny days. So is it saddening that Finland has more solar energy to use the sun's energy than Croatia? I mean, there shouldn't be a lot of brains here. That's a healthy peasant logic telling you. And these parts of the project to the final works in construction can be done by our people, capable people from production, the solar production project further. And We have created to the end, to the end, to the setting. And the goal of everything would be to be an independent energy family, especially in these areas. So I'm surprised what's very little involved in this, let's say, the SDSS Club that always calls for their neighborhoods where people of the Serb national minority who are used only in these cases when the triba is talking about some dramatic situations to show some kind of influence from political Milorad Pupovac, his party and similar. Here is a solution for national minorities too, to allow people in the area, people and Serb national minorities, even though I consider all people political Croats. I don't look at those people the way Milorad Popovci looks at them. I look at these people all and the people of the Serb national minority and other people living in Croatia. They're political Croats. And I think they'd be more comfortable with this, this proposal that I just made that MOST suggested in the last government. I remember when my colleague Chikotic wanted to present him down in the Assembly we asked that our proposal allow us to be on video, on these TVs, on the screens we have here. It didn't, and we have a technical opportunity to explain this whole process where it would help energy efficiency. Of course, as far as the construction itself is concerned, I agree with the windows, roofs, isolation tribbamo use all the technologies and it will run in Croatia God may also be producing. We also have smart heads, to enable and of course what's most important to run construction. Once again, I'd be kicking ass. I didn't say a moment ago if our man like Mate, this former theme, but it doesn't matter if Mr. Romec had his engines on board the river Cetina that... The Krks say there's no oil unclean. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we have everything in common except that we lack something. And we miss that our potentials and resources don't even... We need or how much we import pallets or other wood from Italy, I don't know where we all import them from. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we'd triangulate the Gorski kotar we have a renewable source. Wood is a renewable source. If there is wood in that area, then we try to enable these people to create renewable energy sources in the same way through the production of certain value added products. So you can only talk about energy efficiency through windows that are also setting up Styrofoams or other materials for energy efficiency what's important and I appreciate it all. However, the goal of the Republic of Croatia must be to enable every resident and every family to be independent, and we have conditions for that. Every year, we give half a billion dollars through local self-government to people for heating every year. Only with that money could we solve in a few years all these socially endangered people who would be independent of energy. And secondly, we have the same huge problem that we're assigning this to solar energy where we have the conditions, where we have the god-given we're only giving on the privileged ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31524	Thank you. The next is the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Vucilović will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31525	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, once again with the co-worker. So today we have two topics that are basically compatible, hydrocarbon research on one side. Since these reserves we still have, our wealth is used in the most effective and best, the smartest way, and energy efficiency on the other hand. And yet again, as it has been harmonising with European directives, this is actually one in a series of laws that is in line with European directives. And the law itself as such is in principle fine. All he promotes is to support. There is a question of application, though, which will be defined later through regulations, through sublaws, and in principle we are discussing the law, and implementation can be good and bad, depending on these sublaws. We've already had cases where some things get more complicated then. We saw this in the Rehabilitation Act, which was relatively fast, but here is a few months after we brought it in, there are still relatively few applications made. The renovation hasn't started yet. It opens up a series of issues that are mostly related to a topic that is generally very professional. We have already heard in the debate certain elements and what my colleague Bulj is saying about solars that he is somewhat right, but it is not something that is produced entirely in Croatia. There are solar panels in Croatia if I'm not wrong in one or two places, now I don't know exactly. But it's not bad either, because the production of solar panels is basically a production that pollutes the environment pretty much, so it's actually not bad that we just make it together. What attracted me to this is that in a public debate, certain companies who, if they fail to achieve these objectives, have to pay a certain fee to introduce this space, that these costs are transferred to the end consumer, and they have asked if they can now introduce some new energy efficiency compensation for the specific City gas pipeline Zagreb which, of course, would not be good, and that is something that cannot really be transferred to the end consumer. Because we know that we also have a lot of consumers who are already living in low energy houses where they have means well-insulated facades and three-glazed carpentry, so they don't have too much room to save from what they're spending right now except to stop heating up a few rooms. What concerns me personally is the fact that we will achieve these goals and perhaps even more than we have accepted and because Croatia definitely stands very badly when it comes to demographics, and we all know that only in Germany did not pass because of the epidemic, but those years before moved somewhere between 40,000 and 50,000 of our inhabitants who then do not drive the Croatian roads, they do not live here, they do not spend energy. And if that trend continues this trend of demographic degradation that definitely on the energy side is good, we will achieve the goals. But for the state, it's not good. We've heard little about the fact that we're already running out of labour to achieve all these goals. We know we're constantly missing the workforce mostly in construction. It's the same with industry. All I'm going to say is that the sugar shop in Virovitica has completely stopped working. Calculating what the future is and the Osijek Sugars are like. These are all great consumers, and unfortunately when you look at paper, the goal is achieved, and in reality, the problem you love. Because the fact is, we need re-industrialisation, we need to start the industry, not shut down. And when you look at the share of the processing industry in Croatia, which on about 12% of GDP in developed countries is 20% of GDP, and there is a lot of room to increase. Because we simply have this orientation model of the economy that's what it is. It is similar with Osijek's milkmaker, which is reportedly saved, but it works with far less capacity and, of course, consumes far less energy. So when we look at all of this together, then there is no wonder that some data that stands for example in the draft integrated national energy and climate plan of the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2030, where one finds that emissions of major pollutants in the air from the base 1990s shows a general trend of reduction. The factories aren't working, so there's no one to release any harmful emissions. One more thing is interesting here, and about the legal proposal where cities and units of local self-government should bring action and annual plans, and here I also asked the committee what if they don't do it and what if they don't do it, if there are any sanctions. Because if we're taught the experience we have of primary waste selection, there's been no sanctions, and we're only recycling some 20% of the non-refundable plastics today. In Osijek, there is a factory that does one-time plastic precisely from this recycled and imports it from Arab countries and from all over the world because it is simply because our local sheriffs do not have the will to deal with primary waste selection, but rather have some other interests. We've seen some of these in the media. And the question is, of course, where does that junk go? One place is also a cement plant in the vicinity of Našica in Zoljan and would somehow expect the public to know the quality of the air in the area where waste is burned nearby. The Institute of Public Health in Nasice has two measurement stations. No one measures harmful emissions, so we see how the county cares about the health of its inhabitants. Ours smells like sulfur, but nobody cares about the mayor or the mayor. The other thing that's very interesting here is what about old buildings? It is not possible to organise individual measurement and calculation of heat consumption as prescribed by this law and by the directive. So here we often have a situation where energy is being wasted irrationally, the temperature can be too high. But because of the bad system and not so much because of the users themselves and the question of what to do in that area. Last year, too, a Directive on renewable energy sources was adopted aimed at empowering smaller producers. And we've heard about that, too, so that's actually going in the direction of energy co-operation, so here we hope that it will be implemented with us as soon as possible and at the level of units of local self-government. But also here are these solarists that are often mentioned in the EU 70% of installed solar plants are precisely to address the energy needs of residents in buildings, i.e. housing units where they are installed. And here I'm going to finally just look back at that energy recovery that is expensive and it's been put in a lot, and the fact is that we saw now in Banovina after the earthquake that static housing doesn't meet the conditions that are in line with the positive legal regulations. But I'm also leaving Nashica for Zagreb every week and when you pass every day then you look a little left, on the right you have a lot of new houses without vertical serclains that are not statistically satisfying that kind of minimum. And the worst thing would be to put on a new facade right now so that it's still a state subsidized by taxpayers' money. So what a building inspection is doing, who gave a valid permit at all, and maybe now to correct that wrong Drina that our people say, and ask for some other belief that a statistician is betraying before we put a facade that is energy-efficient and we spend more money on those housing facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31526	Thank you very much. The next Club of HNS representatives and independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Predrag Štromar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31527	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state with a colleague. Energy efficiency is one of the key concepts of the modern economy and the assumption is to achieve an entire set of objectives defined so-called. green policies. As greater energy efficiency contributes to reducing environmental pollution, the level of security of energy supply and thus the state's energy independence, and increases the competitiveness of the domestic industry, we can certainly see it as one of the backbones of sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. The intensity of this law is the establishment of precise mechanisms that will achieve savings in the ultimate energy consumption in the way it is prescribed by European legislation. Directive 2018/2002 builds a common legal framework for the promotion of energy efficiency within the EU. For us, it is important that the directive itself primarily refers to the removal of observed deficiencies in the energy market, and its creators have also sought to establish unequivocal legal protocols that would help address the urgent environmental problems that threaten the survival and biodiversity of nature. The adoption of the energy efficiency principle requires that all economic activities and future projects are observed through the prism of this principle. In particular, this means that the future should simplify the mobilisation of capital and ensure more efficient investment in economic sectors such as energy, transport and construction, whose holders can guarantee an energy-sustainable technological realization of the production process. I suppose our citizens will be most interesting that, through this legislative proposal, parts of that directive will be incorporated into domestic legislation and related to consumer rights, i.e. customers' rights related to the measurement and calculation of electricity consumption, natural gas and, in particular, heat energy and hot water consumption. In particular, the importance of the issue of individual measurement and accounting of heat consumption is highlighted. In order to ensure transparency of accounts for individual heat consumption, Member States are obliged to ensure transparent, publicly available national rules on the distribution of heating, cooling and hot water consumption in households, in multi-optimal buildings and multi-purpose buildings. In addition to the transparency of measuring and calculating the energy consumption of the EU Member State in the context of the implementation of the provisions on the cost of access to information, the measurement, calculation and consumption for heating, cooling and hot water consumption, it may consider taking measures to strengthen competition in the provision of separate measurement services, thereby helping to streamline the costs borne by end-users of those services. In this way, the amendments and additions to the Energy Efficiency Act lay the basis for further regulating these issues through legal and sublegal regulations in the area of the heat energy market. As a contribution to today's debate in the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, I would also like to refer to my ministerial mandate. As Minister of Construction, I paid special attention to the energy reconstruction programmes both of public purpose buildings and of several residential buildings and family houses. Energy recovery projects raise the quality of life, but also save money to units of local self-government, as well as to citizens themselves and the state itself. Because in their realisation, we seek to make maximum use of EU funds, and the reduction of energy consumption, of course, leaves us with more money in the budget or in our pocket. I must stress that through these projects through the Ministry of Construction, more than a thousand hospitals, schools, kindergartens and residential buildings have been restored so far. In energy renovation in Croatia it is very important that more than 90% of the materials and everything that goes in the direction of the Croatian economy, from Croatian workers, from Croatian knowledge, from Croatian building materials. And that's why I point out that we're still going in this direction to allow construction companies that are extremely good at renovating energy and houses, family houses of multiple residential buildings, multi-purpose buildings, to enable them to continue their business in the future. In the last three years, more than three billion kunas have been invested in this. The increase in the share of construction in GDP of the Republic of Croatia, as we now see in these moments, is that it is also the most important, that other branches besides tourism move to have as much impact on the gross social product, on the economy, on employment, at the end of the budget, which can then be used for these crisis situations as we do today with the covida pandemic 19. We have to make it possible for these companies to keep their jobs continuous, not to work extremely hard for two years, create huge capacities, and then for two years there are no competitions, and then everyone looks at each other and enters other niches, into other jobs, and those jobs that they don't know how to do. Then competitions are reopened, jobs are lost at the time. You can't give a high-quality salary to a worker anymore, and those workers are gone. I think energy efficiency in the building can specifically provide our workers with very, very good and high wages. It can withdraw them, that those who are in Germany and other EU countries, to return to Croatia and to live here in quality and contribute to the economy and ultimately be here, here to start a family and work here and be a real Croatian not only citizen but also a citizen who works here and contributes to everything. I hope the Ministry and Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction knows that we have prepared a lot of projects to rebuild more residential buildings. The project was excellently done in the first term, but now it's time to make the competition again, secure the funds. There are more than a billion kunas of prepared projects and this realisation could start immediately and be realised within a year and a half. And we know that very soon we will have a great deal of work to do for the building and in the city of Zagreb in the reconstruction and reconstruction of Banija as well as in other infrastructure facilities. The Croatian People's Party club will support these amendments and amendments to the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31528	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Miro Totgergeli, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31529	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The Energy Efficiency Act has been discussed in detail through two readings and amended in 2018. During the second reading, the Proposer informed us of a video conference held between the two readings with representatives of the European Commission, in which support is given that the draft law is in line with EU legislation. Therefore, in December 2018, our law was fully in line with EU directives. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, explaining that the law is proposed in order to bring the Republic of Croatia's legislative framework in line with the amendments to the EU regulatory framework in the field of energy efficiency created by the adoption of Directive 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. When we look at it, then the sequence of events is completely logical, because until the directive was even adopted in December 2018. To comply with this law already with that Directive. The purpose of this law is to achieve the objectives of sustainable energy development, to reduce negative environmental impacts in the energy sector, to improve energy security, to meet the needs of end-users of energy and to meet the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the area of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and to foster measures of interest for the Republic of Croatia. These amendments and amendments to the laws provide for the establishment of indicative national energy efficiency and contribution targets for 2020, 2030 in accordance with Article 3. It's a directive. The amendments and additions in question also establish and promote the implementation of the energy efficiency principle first, so energy efficiency in the first place. This principle requires that all economic activities and future projects be monitored through the contribution of measures to improve energy efficiency and aims to support the framework for facilitating sustainable investment in energy, transport, construction, industry and more effectively use of energy in all phases of the energy chain from production to end-use. The projection of the end-use of all forms of energy was made using the bottom-up approach that enables structural diameters to be seen on the side of energy use in different sectors, for example. industry, household, service sector, transport, which are necessary to achieve the objectives of climate change mitigation. In order to contribute to the achievement of the national indicative objectives, the Directive laid down in Article 7 that Member States are obliged to achieve direct energy savings and a methodology for determining the amount of mandatory cumulative energy savings to be achieved in the period from 1st 2014-2020 and 2021 to 2030 respectively. On the basis of such a projection, each Member State is obliged to draw up its national energy savings hodogram, which provide cumulative energy savings in the planned amount by 2030. This law sets out the national indicative objectives and mandatory cumulative energy savings in the cumulation periods and determines that mandatory cumulative objectives achieved by the combination of energy efficiency system and alternative policy measures, alternative policy measures are defined in the national energy and climate plan and the functioning of the obligation system is closer to the regulation of the law. The obligation of the Environment and Energy Fund is established to fully comply with the provisions of the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan as well as the energy reconstruction programmes of buildings which are the main alternative energy efficiency policy measures in the Republic of Croatia. The Fund is also clearly required to include in due time all data on the measures co-financed in the monitoring, measurement and verification system of energy savings and to be reported by the Ministry. This ensures the timely and availability of data necessary for the annual reporting of the objectives achieved. The law harmonises regional or local plans with national plans and ensures the consistency of the development of regional and local plans. Regional or local plans should be adopted by 31 December of the current year for the next 3 years. This will allow county and city plans to be taken into account when drawing up a national energy efficiency action plan. The obligation for counties, cities and municipalities to report annually to the Ministry on the measures implemented to improve energy efficiency and energy savings achieved and to ensure that all measures implemented using exclusively their own resources are introduced into the system for monitoring, measuring and verification of energy savings. This amendment and supplementation of the law also transposes parts of the Directive relating to consumer or customer rights related to the measurement and calculation of electricity consumption, natural gas, heat energy and hot water consumption. It underlines the importance of the issue of individual measurement and accounting of heat consumption. In order to achieve the transparency of calculation for individual heat consumption, Member States must ensure a transparent and publicly available national, national rules on the distribution of heating, cooling and hot water consumption in households, in buildings with multiple apartments and multi-purpose buildings. In Article 26, which is given six months in my opinion, I think it's a little short. And now I'm going to tell the truth because there was a speech where Croatia is around renewable energy sources. Croatia is the sixth in the EU to share renewable energy sources in final consumption, therefore in consumption. As far as electricity production is concerned, what we produce, we produce 72.4% from renewable sources, and in the total share of electricity consumption, renewable sources participate with 48%. Here are the figures from February 2020, so for the years when there was no Covid crisis and which are in some way reference to the comparison with the other years. The HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31530	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Marijana Puljak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31531	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, we have before us a law that harmonizes these goals in Croatia with regard to energy saving and harmonize with the EU with energy efficiency targets such as reducing dependence on energy imports, improving air quality, public health, and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This law is, in general, the Energy Efficiency Act is one of the strategic laws important for the development of the Republic of Croatia until 2030, especially until 2050 for several reasons. In view of climate change, the obligation to implement renewable energy sources in all areas, primarily in construction, in tourism from the aspect of sustainable tourism, in agriculture from the aspect of sustainable and eco-innovation, smart cities, smart energy mobility, circular economy. Huge funds in the EU are planned to co-finance the development of innovative technologies related to energy savings in all sectors. Croatia's energy savings commitments for the period until '30. are two and a half times larger than the previous period. In the '30s. Until '50. All buildings are planned in the EU to therefore be in the range of zero energy efficient, and this means that each building must produce as much energy as necessary for its normal annual performance in terms of energy for heating, cooling and preparation of hot water consumption or lighting. In law, key players are party bonds, energy suppliers. But I think if not in this law, so are other rules and regulations, and in particular the technical regulation on the rational use of energy and heat protection in buildings that have recently experienced some changes and additions should further specify the obligations of the building manager in terms of energy savings obligations by the '30s. First of all, we are thinking about the need to reconstruct not only public buildings but also buildings in the private sector. The finding that the law does not require any additional means to implement it seems to us that it does not stand because of its importance if nothing else should organise a special campaign and promote the importance of energy efficiency and energy savings from schools to public institutions. The implementation should in no way be aware of the mere satisfaction of meeting the mandatory annual reports of Croatia that must be made towards the EU. Similarly, this obligation should not be taken into account by certain offices, individuals in cities and counties or just activities of the Energy Efficiency Fund, it must be a broad social action. The example of how this should be done is Denmark, which in this sense has become the world leader in particular in implementing renewable energy sources in all sectors of life. For example, for example, it should be especially appropriate. To educate all officials in the urban and state urban sectors working to check project documentation for new and reconstruction of old buildings according to requirements of approximately zero energy efficient construction that has been required since this year. They mostly don't know anything about it very little or almost nothing. EU energy supply must be fully decarbonised by 2050 at the latest. In order to achieve this goal, all systems in the EU need to be transformed in order to fully rely on renewable energy. Fossil fuels must be phased out, while almost all primary energy should be delivered by 2050 from the wind, the sun and the biomass. In order to achieve an early gradual achievement of green electricity policies, especially in new forms of electricity such as electromobility, high-efficiency heat lifts, cooling for data centres, the EU needs to reach a share of renewable sources of up to 70% in combination with energy by 2030. The huge cost reduction in solar energy, photovoltaic cells, wind, including coastal wind, increases the cost of this proposal. In order to limit the safety and security threats associated with the ageing of nuclear power plants, the nuclear power must also be phased out in accordance with the maximum duration of the plant from 40 g. For aviation, shipbuilding and heavy good imports of synthetic fuels is considered a long-term option. From the climate perspective, only forest waste should go to bioenergy while agricultural land should be used to produce food for humans and animals, not biofuels. Natural gas consumption must continue to decrease despite the increased use of gas in the electricity sector. Gas infrastructure will be gradually used with green gas, a means of balancing variable renewable electricity generated from the sun and wind in micro and mini decentralised systems in buildings, public institutions and factories, etc. In order to rapidly decarbonise its EU economy, Croatia should adopt smart and economical, long-term approach and reduce CO2 emissions by at least 55% by 2030 to achieve 0 net greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, ensure that at least 40% of its final energy consumption comes from renewable energy sources by the 1930s, and then to achieve 100% by 2050 improve its energy efficiency by at least 45% by 2030 and 70%, respectively, in order to achieve the highest energy efficiency level by 2050. The EU has increased the amount of public funds available for energy efficiency, however, in order to meet the energy union's objectives and to support the transition to a clean energy system, it is necessary to further unlock private funding, in particular to invest in energy efficiency. It is estimated that it will take up to 2030. An additional EUR 275 billion per year is needed to achieve the EU's 2030 energy and climate targets. In any case, all these activities are crucial for Croatia and its economy for the period 2020 to 2030 and 2050 respectively, which must be given priority and cannot, at any rate, remain at the level of plans, programmes and paper activities. The strategy must be developed for all institutions from kindergarten through schools to businesses and public institutions. Why don't we, for example. Introduce a commitment or action to all children and adults from primary school through college, companies working people in Croatia, so that all must plant at least 50 new forest trees by the end of their working life. Most of the time, that's why they need the means to enforce this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31532	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU on behalf of whom the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31533	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, energy efficiency should certainly be one of the top topics in Croatia that should be discussed more, not only when such laws come on the agenda. What saddens me is that this alignment with the EU directives will be only a harmonisation, and very little will definitely come to life in Croatia, but this will satisfy the form of harmonisation, we will do our commitment to the EU, and by 2030 as it is, who and how it is, some think that it may not be as important. I believe that the EU will be at least close to these objectives if it does not achieve them, but unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia, which is at the bottom of the EU, means the poorest doubt that it will be close to the goals we have set before it. Unfortunately, statistics say that every 5th citizen of the Republic of Croatia is on the verge of poverty, and that every 4th household has problems with account payments. Believe that they, as well as the pensioners, reduced their energy consumption to a minimum of minimum to survive and barely pay for it and that they simply have no place to save anymore. And it also says that family homes are 65% of the total housing fund and that they spend around 40% of the total energy. So one big pool that could save a lot of money, but to save a lot of money here, it has to be invested a lot. Now I am going back to this defeated statistical data on poverty and the inability to pay the bills, so very few of our citizens today can afford to invest energy savings in their homes through energy façades, through solar energy in terms of electricity or heating and water heating, to invest heat tanks of energy, and the state of Croatia has tried to make their lives even more bitter to make it harder for them to be on zero CO2 emissions. One of the problems I've been talking about under some other laws is the wood mass that many citizens use for heating and at home alone I have two sources of heating, one is gas, one is wood mass, which is zero CO2 emissions. The Republic of Croatia prefers to allow this mass to be exported from Croatia, transformed into a reduction of CO2 quota instead of allowing its citizens, which in some way also owns and wood mass that should belong to the Republic of Croatia and not to the Croatian forests, today the price of heating wood has gone so high and is so hard to obtain that citizens simply give up this type of space heating and move on to natural gas or other alternative options. So I'm asking now why we do this to our citizens, why, why don't we encourage them to use biomass for heating because today there's a technology that's quite easily available pyrolytic boilers and even regular boilers that can hold the temperature for 12 hours, there's heat tanks, there's automatics, so today it's easy to warm up properly and on wood. However, as far as I can see, the sale of wooden pellets is encouraged, in order to make a pellets, you have to knock down the wood, you have to grind it, you have to drain it, you have to drain it, you have to waste energy, and you have to pack it again, you have to bring it to the market. I think our policies have gone wrong in that part. The poor always go the most expensive because they have no money to invest in new technologies. Too few new technologies are used in Croatia to make as little imports as possible, dependent on import energy and to switch to renewable energy sources. We have a case of an entrepreneur in Old Subochkoj that is an area of the city of Novska that has been trying for years to install a mill turbine on the water supply of Sobocko, so many obstacles to administrative, miracles, that man showed me and often I'm in contact with him that he simply can't install it even though it's his mill and there's a concession for that stream, but it just doesn't fit into someone's story. We have a lot of water streams in Croatia that are rich to them, and they just pass through, go away, and not create energy. According to counterpart Bulj, not one part of the wind power plant is from Croatia, and I have to tell him it's not true. It is a concrete foundation, but I must say that he without concrete iron is only Croatian. Unfortunately, there were companies in Croatia, though some of them were also working high-tech, producing generators and automation and electronics and a large part of these plants could be produced in Croatia, parts of wind power plants, but it was destroyed, so there is no need for Croatia to introduce anything easier. One of the good methods of reducing energy consumption that the government of Croatia has introduced in Croatia, which is to emigrate the population. Many of our citizens have gone to Germany now they spend energy there and create problems for the Germans and do not spend in Croatia, they have made it easy for us here, thank them for this method but I think it is really scary and funny. Poverty is another method that the ruling uses, and normally when you don't have money, you have to save a lot of money on the most basic one, and that's electricity, and that's the rest because if you don't pay the bills at best, you'll be excluded, and in the worst case, you'll get the tip from which you'll be hard to scrape, and you'll be in that group of 300,000 blocked citizens. But we must admit that this is also the method of ruling to save in the Republic of Croatia. Gentlemen, we don't have a single bank that would borrow 0% of these green projects, the production of renewable energy, which would encourage anyone who wants to build a small turbine on one of the little streams, anyone who wants to put solar panels on the roof, because to set up solar panels today, you have a problem with closed finances, too, with the permission to join the network, to get into the quota, so you can sell the surplus you don't need. So there's no real incentive only to do these facades and I don't think it's all about façades that there's a lot of opportunities to save, but we have to admit that politics isn't going in the right direction for that, for saving, that politics is quite something else because if we wanted to produce it from renewable sources then our roofs would look like those in Germany. You go around German villages and you'll see that everyone has stops covered with photovoltaic panels, houses covered, that you have mini biogas plants, that in every way you try to produce energy from some other sources, and that it's not fossil fuels. Gentlemen, wake up, wake up, listen to what people are telling you and take care of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31534	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to an individual debate, the first to speak with the respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31535	Thank you very much, Vice President. State secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, this is a good proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act, and we will support it in both the first and second readings because we believe that this harmonisation with EU directives has its own reason and certainly contributes, and nothing is relevant and we believe that what we are told through the law that we should plan better, better apply and best. Better achieve energy efficiency, there should be no obstacle to voting for this law. The story of energy efficiency began there in the early 2000s when we were all trying to learn that concept, until then it was simply not a part of our life and reality, and we approached in every respect of this efficiency in our own way whether we were building houses, whether we were raising lights, whether we were buying machines, etc., we didn't know too much about it, we were past the learning period, we also established an agency that had primary energy efficiency, that was the fund of the year 2004 and that way we went to those pre-accession funds, and after we joined the EU, we certainly also had funds at our disposal. So this desire to move this law and some obstacles to the energy market and to overcome some market gaps is certainly welcome. The fundamental principle of this law means the energy efficiency of the first one certainly tells us that we must always think about it. I think the citizens, but the institutions are doing it today without a lot of thinking about whether it's worth it or not. I think energy efficiency certainly pays off especially in all segments where it is visible. Today we're going to have a hard time getting into the store and we're going to buy machines of different energy efficiency, so we're going to take the worst one because it's the cheapest and it's the most energy consumption, we're thinking about it anyway. It's hard to build houses if we don't have an energy-efficient facade or that we're going to give in to some kind of savings, and then it's finally getting more expensive. I think that story, I mean something that citizens are really ready to use today, and later I'm going to say something about how I do it. I think that today we can simply say that we have begun to really deal with this energy efficiency in the way that we are expected and I say by the states that we like to call, which are far away, far ahead of us, and have long applied something that I'm just saying today a little bit learning and learning to use the benefits of all this. So when we're talking only about the fund in the last 2 years. I'll tell you what we're there after one financial stabilisation of that agency that we... Inherited in large debt again for energy efficiency someone is there in 2014-'15. arranged a little more i.e. not a little more than 10 times more than this only facade compared to what is available, so that burdened us for years until we managed to repay these, let's say, debts, so the fund was really blocked in terms of all the public calls. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the last 2 years. We published when we talk about the energy efficiency of 22 calls, public calls received by a total of 19,000 applications and after which about 12,000 contracts worth 450 million kuna were concluded. Certainly the largest part was the energy restoration of facades or buildings, which is the largest part of about 250 million kuna, 85 million kuna is invested in energy efficiency in transport itself, 50 million kunas in promoting renewable energy sources, and 65 million kuna has gone to other energy efficiency projects. So we simply tried to make the most possible and what was most challenging to the attention of both parliaments and parliamentary deputies is certainly last year's call for an energy reconstruction of houses that received 7391 applications from which they were all processed to date, and there are 211 million kuna available. I think the fund is finally working well, and this year we're going to call a number of public calls, and somewhere at our disposal we have almost two billion kuna, and that's what this law is, but then the agency itself made it possible for us to actually talk about this energy efficiency today. in real use. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31536	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Danica Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31537	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Here is my colleague, Boric, who has just pointed out what with a positive example of policy and energy efficiency measures the government has done, but this one is worth mentioning here that these changes and additions to the law will also be taken into account by designing exactly the energy efficiency policy measures to mitigate energy and energy poverty measures. Therefore, according to the criteria to be set up precisely in the way of including that part of the energy efficiency measures under the energy efficiency obligation system and alternative policy measures and other measures should be directed at the very risk of this energy poverty, and all in accordance with the regulations governing the area of energy, construction, social care, regional development, which I think is an extremely good opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31538	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31539	Thank you very much, colleague Baričević, so I think we can say that today when we talk about this energy efficiency we will hardly find any public worker, officials, mayor, mayor who will build a building, and that already in the beginning it is not planned to be of maximum energy efficiency and that today we will do more or less and privately anything about this building, and that we will not take into account that moment. We used to talk here and about energy certificates when we talked about legalization of objects and they caused quite a wide debate, but when conditions were set and when the system, let's say, established and settled I think today you'll very rarely find a building that doesn't have that certificate, and besides, it's clear what you can or can't do with it. Is it equal to being energy efficient in your house, so have cooling and heating etc. which is effective in relation to the classic that gives us a pretty high cost of energy, and then financial, I think that these people in the long run at 10, 20 g. They find rewardability and build what is good for them. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31540	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja. Thank you, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31541	Thank you very much. Energy efficiency in Croatia has the possibility, as I said on behalf of the club, that Boric uses 0.5% of his solar energy. If God gave us anything in Croatia we're a Mediterranean state, it's the sun. And the MOST Club put forward a proposal last term for a respected secretary of state, the proposal of the Microsolar Act, that's what we called it. And once again, Croatia uses solar energy 0.5% while Finland uses 5 times as much as Croatia. Local self-government and regional self-government give half a billion kuna a year to our socially endangered families for heating, so that they can survive the winter and that's a reasonable decision. However, it is an unreasonable decision if we know that we have microsolares, we can produce every part of the microsolars in the Republic of Croatia, a project, we have people who can make projects for our buildings, houses, apartments, buildings, public institutions, and we mainly have our builders who would start construction and the goal would be that everything is domestic and ultimately we have an independent energy family in the Republic of Croatia. Imagine what this would mean for these 2/3 of Croatia that we mention here is just mentioning Zagreb, I know that Zagreb has its problems and talk about it. Imagine what that would mean from my colleague Kujundzic in Medovo Dolac there in Imotski krajina, which would mean in my Cetina province, which would mean in Zagora, the Straight Wheels in Gorski Kotar, Lica that we have this mind to gather in one place and start it. Unfortunately, however, the people who installed the microsolares mentioned earlier the man who built the building in Sinj was the object that he planned to be his warehouse of fruit and vegetables in the Cetina region, the man in 2013. 30 kW put on the roof of the building, paid 60,000 euros without incentives, but no advance in quota, unable to rise to quota because there is no party card then HNS... HNS, HDZ like the director of Krka National Park. So we have all the conditions, all of them, we have the law that the Mosta Club gave that you didn't even let us present here the technological possibilities that Parliament has then we show for good, so you rewrite it, you didn't want it. 0.3% of solar energy is used by the Republic of Croatia, but that's why we pay expensive projects like Krš-Padene, and then we give a billion-and-a-half kuna subsidies to wind power plants brought by then by Minister Vrdoljak later the HDZ coalition partner and everything that's happened, the Secretary of State knows that well, and at this point we have a problem. We have a problem with what these energy efficiency projects end up getting to who's going to do the fastest finger. Now we don't have the Internet, what are we going to do now, and these two-thirds of Croatia is that Banovina has exposed everything and the coronary crisis, so it's similar in the rest of the Republic of Slovenia in Slavonia, everywhere. Now they're crying, the government is crying over the fate of heavy infrastructure, and here we see even the mayor of Petrinja, who hasn't easily happened to evil, but Mayor Petrinja obviously hasn't invested there in the last 20 years, I don't think it's worked. I understand the fate of that city, I was, we were all doing our best as much as anyone could. A colleague earlier spoke in agriculture about how much these solarists would be worth, in construction as much as a cheaper product would have been, in the end, for our farmers to be on their facilities, but there is no will. So we have from product, from product plan to setup we have a whole cycle and in the end we have an independent farmer energy, an independent family of energy, but money is given to WE, to these foreigners. If it were at least Croatian, so I don't have a problem, you target my house, there's no problem but who's gone, and that's what we could discuss. That's why we have the potential and we're trying to build our strategy on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31542	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of the God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31543	Representative Bulj. I have listened very carefully to your presentation and to the individual presentation of Representative Boric and what I can ask you, do you agree that in such exhibitions we should just listen to what the EU tells us and simply accept what they tell us because for example. Representative Boris says compliance with the EU legislation has its reasons. Which we won't ask, I guess we just came to sign, I guess that's how the boss teaches them because we know who's more important to them when it comes to choosing the Croatian people or Brussels. But what I am interested in, seeing as they have quickly forgotten the Krš-Padene, is our proposal for microsolars, is it in your opinion that this should only be shriveled and sent back to the EU or should we discuss quality proposals here and include them so that this is not just the European Parliament's outpost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31544	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31545	I can fully understand my colleague, Boric, someone has to be a spokeswoman for Andrej Plenkovic in the Parliament and do his ideas, it is his role, it is his job, and he does this all the time effectively, quality and exactly as his colleague, Andrej Plenkovic, tells him. And if it were the ministry of truth, embellishing the truth would probably be one of Plenkovic's main candidates for that, Mr. Boric's ministry. I believe that the quality proposals of anyone to come from, and the report as an obedient adoption of a directive and regulations and being a listener, being a mere listener of a European one is unfortunately translated into this HS and most of it. We have quality laws, we have resources, we have suggestions, and the Bridge has given a solution for an independent peasant, an independent farmer, a retired and socially endangered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31546	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative of Silvana Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31547	Dear fellow Bull. I'm going to put myself just inverted to one of your replicas to me when you said you disagreed with me in a lot of things, but in the bill of law, you agree. Now I'll say, I agree with you in a lot of things you said, but not in one detail. There is no project of microsolars, there is the right for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to use solar energy, and society must accept their production in joint production and sell excess energy. Just remind you, to be picturesque, read I know you've read, read again Dobriša Cesaric and the song "Slap", every little drop makes that waterfall according to it, every single one of our family houses is this little drop that deserves to shine and make that huge waterfall of using the sun's energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31548	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31549	We then called this law a colleague of the Hrelja a microsolar law, it's about photovoltaic cells that can be produced in the Republic of Croatia, meaning from product to end. And that would really be the population that you're fighting most for, that's people with weaker property conditions, that's mostly senior pensioners mostly left in areas where there's no possibility of any kind of care or where their family members went, so that's exactly what we've been calling colloquial microsolars is exactly where every drop makes one waterfall, drop by drop one waterfall, and that's that energy. And we would in this way all the funds we give a yearly half a billion just for heating plus subsidies for those who have done harmful projects in the Republic of Croatia that is minimum 2 billion kuna per year where for 3-4 years we could set up these microsolars and thus have independent families, and in particular threatened for which you fight, and these are senior pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31550	The next is a replica of the respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31551	Thank you, Chairman. In view of the Copernicus turn that happens from time to time in the heads of the rulings, then the application of certain legal legislation or ideas is incorporated into the very legislative frameworks, as is the case with the IGP, for example, HGK, of course, all that comes from MOST, I believe that, in due course, it will be incorporated in the same logic, in fact, by MOST's proposal of the laws on microsolars. What I'd like to ask you is, in your opinion, what is a very small number of energy self-sufficient buildings are doing, starting with the housing itself, and then all the institutions that are directly in charge of whether the states or founders as such? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31552	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31553	So in the EU, Croatia is the worst in withdrawing funds something can be said about educational institutions, health institutions, the building of facades, the styropor of facades, or I don't know which facades, roofs, prisons, but the key potential we have, I repeat, is solar energy, and we use it least in the EU, and we are the richest Mediterranean state. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't channel all the laws of possible change in this so we don't just use 0.5%. 0.3% of solar energy from the total energy spent in Croatia. While Finland 10th, 15 times more uses solar energy, and there are no sunny days I think very little of Croatia, yes. It means what on these 2/3 of Croatia, mainly where the endangered ends could be used as potential, obviously interest did not prevail, but the interest of the fastest finger, so who has a faster finger that's going to get.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31554	The next replica is the respected representative of Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31555	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, welcome. Kola Bulj, I would like to talk to the public and remind them once more and warn them in the end about Croatia's energy poverty. So, it's not settled, there's no basic preconditions for that, and maybe we should take care of it first. We have so many things that we need to do more specifically in this story. I'll be specific, we have Slovenia, we have an example of the relief of the procedures for the establishment of energy communities, so please comment on that. But I'm interested in you coming from the Dalmatian Mountain, how is it there, how is the whole story going and are you satisfied with the procedure and the procedures?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31556	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31557	Here, I'd just say that my end of where I come from is the most prospective end and the most beautiful for life from Savudria to Prevlaka. With very small investments and the use of our potentials we have, and soon we will use them only this part of an independent family energy segment, which is very important we can move things. Unfortunately, only harmful projects are being pushed. Harmful projects affecting people to leave, harmful projects of example that waste is thrown along a river that is huge potential, the Cetina River, not only about the production of water as a river but 40% of the hydropower produced by the Cetina River in the Republic of Croatia, but nobody takes care of that people or returns it. But soon the city of Sinj and the city of Cetina will be a perspective and will be the best solar city, the houses will be solar, each equipped because what it does They're just trying to squeeze them a little bit, they're not heroes, they're just trying to squeeze them so they don't frame their own. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31558	The next replica is the respected advocates of Renate Sablar Dračevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31559	Thank you, dear Vice President. Mr. Bully, here I am going to relate to what you've just begun to say. I'm interested in whether the time will come for us to have energy independent settlements in Croatia too?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31560	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31561	So here in the previous answer I said that you will soon be able to come to Sinj which will be a city, which will be a city meaning energy independent because we have potential. So is Split, your city from which you come, your end. But I said that in the case of the very same, you are the Social Democrats in the party that this social component of people mainly this 2/3 of Croatia, and also in Zagreb, but these 2/3 of Croatia that have been forgotten and if it continues this way we will not have the possibility of using electricity at all, someone mentioned it earlier, because they will evict people, there will be fewer and fewer of them. However, by investing in independent families, independent settlements, I speak energy, and we have potential, here's only the solar potential we encourage both production and people to stay working and that people deal with construction. We have everything from project, product to independent family.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31562	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31563	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have apologized a lot, discussed EU regulations that we must comply with, which we will prescribe, but we have neither capacity nor will, I fear nor knowledge to implement and respect, and of course we do not all know that money. What HSS often says and emphasizes, which is the green economy. What's a green economy supposed to mean? It should be aware of the most rational use of energy and the storage of pollution to a minimum, but not only of these fossil fuels pollutions, it refers to both light pollution and noise pollution, because we need to realize that we humans are not the only living beings on this planet that there are far more lives than we are aware of, than we are aware of, and that we have to take care of that life because when that life goes away we will also disappear as humans. We could look up to the village, the village is trying to exploit almost everything it has, what it produces, and at least buys it. The pollution is also a variety of packagings, various packagings, and from this energy we use and the village is an example of how the nearest one lived with efforts to make it the least polluting. With us, the green economy and the awareness of green economy should begin at primary school, in the house, in kindergarten, and should develop through life education so that we are all aware of our impact on nature, environment and consumption, excessive energy consumption, especially fossil fuels. We talked a lot today about the use of light energy, about other renewable sources of energy that Croatia has on its plate, but unfortunately we have one problem that can be consciousness in 3 letters, which is IMT. It is not the tractor produced in Serbia, but it is the saying "do I have a tattoo", because if I'm gone, then nothing is interesting to me and I don't want to develop anything. We have a large number of innovators that can be included in this program and this reduction in energy consumption, but if I do. Some others don't have notebooks are not interesting. We see numerous affairs, here's the last one, the Krsh-Pared around the wind power plants, and there's the question of "if there's me" and there's been some of them caught, some of them are going to run away and the program's going on again. The energy restoration of the facade. You know what it looks like when you're a little bit more focused about it? If you got into the program, you got 60% of the funds to do it through a contest where you have to find the performer, then the contractors blow up those prices, and when you finally calculate and draw the line if you had cash for it or you raised a cheap loan in the bank it's cheaper to deal directly with the manufacturer and you don't owe anyone anything and nobody gave you anything but for the same price you made an energy façade. Talk to the masters, see what the prices are, try to calculate, and you'll see that what I'm saying is true. We started with photovoltaic cells, a subsidy of produced electricity from renewable sources, people made calculations, invested money, and then one day someone abolished the law and said no more subsidies. The whole calculation is falling into the water, the one who invested the money has invested it and has to wait 20 years. to return to him, and what he thought he might earn for some time or some time use that system for free while it lasts, unfortunately nothing. So there is no consistency in our policy on this issue, and then when there is no consistency then there is no trust of investors or investors, and investors for racketeering and bribery and corruption have long since left Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31564	Thank you, stay, stay a colleague of Lenart's. Comrade Lenart, colleague Lenart, you've been carried out too much, stay here for a while, we've got a few replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31565	That's me on purpose to mention my last name more than once.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31566	She's one of the most respected representatives of Silvan Hrelje, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31567	Dear colleague Lenart, you are using the term “green economy”. However, the green economy cannot, and has great potential, therefore, by all European estimates in relation to Croatia could employ all unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, it means energy consumption management, it involves renewable energy sources, but it also means the production of all devices, devices, devices, if we want to talk about solars, if we want to talk about tailored, customized central heating furnaces, etc., so this process must be rounded up, and while you have that electricity distributor that makes money, and not the savings in which all citizens participate, none of the green economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31568	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31569	Thank you, colleague Hrelja, for asking. Here, you said that well, so this green economy project could employ a lot of people, a lot of innovators, a lot of young scientists. If we had the capacity here are very simple Roman cars, if in that part we went so far, means one entrepreneur in Croatia, so why don't we go to these components that are necessary in the green economy. I'll compare it to agriculture. So some more developed countries, unfortunately when I have to talk about our environment, have calculated that every job in agriculture opens up almost two jobs in the economy, and that's the only thing we in Croatia can't figure out, so we're destroying our agriculture. Also, this story about the green economy can employ a lot of young people from that order of installers, innovators, experts, scientists and normal and even our colleges improve.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31570	Thank you. The following replicas of the respected representative Renate Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31571	Thank you, Vice President. Agent Lenart, you've made me laugh a lot, so wait till I see it correctly, with IMT you've made me laugh, but what I'm interested in is this very green economy. So, you've worked out about how this could increase our productivity, is there anything else that you consider significant in that, and should certainly be emphasized once more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31572	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31573	Hey, look, IMT, I got an IMT from '58. He's still working today. I hope these other IMTs won't be exploited that long because then it'll ruin us. So we could talk a lot about the green economy, but all the biggest things in the world are very simple. Look, I'm not ashamed of being a peasant, I work 30 acres of land, and I know very well what the green economy is. For 12 years, I've been on gas, every year I've been on registration, I say 600 kunas for driving gas because I tried to reduce pollution. I'm warming up on biomass, and I'm being punished for getting my biomass price in the sky every year, and it's getting harder and harder to get it. So things are very simple, we just have to be people and we have to send this IMT into history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31574	Wait, there's still a replica of the respected representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31575	Dear colleague Lenart. You said in your debate, the most you related to agriculture, how much in the Republic of Croatia, according to your information in your neighborhood, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and these laws that they bring to benefit that they may have as you mentioned in your debate as in Germany or in other countries that they have photovoltaic panels on their stables? How many of you have such examples that the Croatian Government has made it possible for them or these laws that are being passed that allow a peasant who produces to have a cheaper product? Is there any positive example where some law, in particular in terms of energy efficiency in agriculture, encouraged these people or moved those farmers? Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31576	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31577	Well, here's your thanks, buddy Bull. I live in the Box, and I have to admit, I don't know, I don't think there's anyone on the roof with a photovoltaic power plant. And I have a roof that's a good position in the south, and I've been thinking about it, but when I think of all these obstacles and I'll never get a quota to produce energy, then I give up that project. As well as most of my colleagues who have huge roofs in their stables, well laid that could produce and perhaps 50 kW/h of electricity, but simply when all their barriers are set up, and otherwise, new obstacles are set for farmers every day because when you start producing, you have 10 obstacles, while you finish production you have 15 obstacles, so here and here. I don't know anyone who built anyone in the City of Kutina area who's an industrial city and has money something like this central. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31578	Thank you very much. We will now end up on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, and the honourable representative Sandra Bencic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31579	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Finally, I would just like to say briefly on how we can actually make better use of the resources available to increase energy efficiency in different sectors. First of all, I would like to say that I think that for the Energy Efficiency Fund and for the funding programmes it has should adopt the principle of concentration and look particularly at the challenges that lie ahead of us about the reconstruction of Zagreb and Bania that the funds that are actually designed to increase energy efficiency in building, therefore for houses and buildings, in particular for public purposes, are to be concentrated in the reconstruction and thus to be additional means to raise the energy efficiency of those buildings that are going to be renovated in order to solve that part when they are being refurbished. When we talk about concentration and what would be the potential effects of it, I'll say something about the issue of combating energy poverty. Only for comparison, annually for the fight against energy poverty for the energy recovery of those family homes belonging to vulnerable groups, so those who are at risk of energy poverty, we raise 32 million kunas on average. On the other hand, for the general restoration of family homes and energy restoration, we stand out between 170 and now last year I think there were about 200 and some million kunas. So these are huge differences. What am I saying? In order to concentrate our resources in a way that we first solve and finance the energy recovery of those houses that are at risk of energy poverty, and not only by the criteria that are now given to vulnerable groups, which is that you must be the recipient of minimum compensation but all those who are found to be literally at risk of energy poverty because that means killing a few flies at once, with one blow. So, apart from restoring that infrastructure that would otherwise not be renewed because people don't have the resources, we reduce their consumption, we reduce exposure to poverty, but then we reduce the isolation and social care for those households that need compensation for heating, compensation for guaranteed minimum compensation, etc., so we sort of systemically address that problem. I'm also going to give you an example of, say, getting a vehicle. Be careful, for the energy poverty of the family houses, we stand out less than we do for the purchase of electric vehicles. Together, for private persons and legal persons, we set aside about 44 million kunas a year for the purchase of electric cars. Now, if we already have that 44 million kuna per year for the purchase of electric cars or electric vehicles, let's concentrate them, let's focus it first on transforming our public transport into large cities in Croatia, for example. So let's start with the big agglomerations first, let's switch all taxi services to electric vehicles, it'll build infrastructure in cities for electric chargers and then we'll go wider because the effect of the concentration will also be greater in reducing CO2 when you switch public traffic to that, but also in financial effect. This is how things break apart. Other people get money I mean for electric cars people who actually have money, I mean, let's be realistic, don't buy an electric car by someone who doesn't have them. So I think we need a better concentration to have, to have more effects. One more thing if we had strategically planned in which regions, in which activities, in which areas, in which we give our households, we wouldn't have to have this way of competition that we now have, and that's the fastest finger. And I'll tell you one example. The smart cities, the competition, were already 2 now as far as I know, so for the first competition for smart cities can be reported anyone just has a different co-financing ratio. So, they can also be poor and rich, etc., and now instead of investing in those who are the poorest cities and municipalities we give a hand and a hat to everyone and what happens, people went to Bajak's lecture in the mail at midnight because the competition opened that day and those who did not surrender at midnight to Bajakova who turned in at midnight and by no means came into consideration. That's how big the rush was. It was the same now with electronic applications. If you surrender in the seventh second, forget you'll get the funds. It's not a good way to manage public money. I guess we'll all agree on that here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31580	Next, he will speak finally on behalf of the MOST Club representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31581	Thank you very much. Here we are today ending these two topics of green. I am sorry that Minister Coric did not come mainly on the first topic in the field of investigation, i.e. The research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia, as well as this copying of the regulations, says Boric, is important that this is properly copied and that is that, raised hands and that is the Croatian Parliament means.../incomprehensible/... here as counterpart Petrov said. So here I would say once again in the end that, dear secretary of state, that because of the citizens I say it would be good for you to reconsider the proposal that MOST made, means coloquially called microsolars, of course this is about photovoltaic panels because for Croatia, this is the best solution for these 2/3 of Croatia, and not only by the earthquake affected by Banovina, because Croatia by the number of sunny days in the EU is the country with the most, means the largest number of sunny days, and the damage is not to take advantage of our potential. We're now at 0.3% usability of this total of this energy we're wasting, energy. So you might want to think about it. Don't think about it, just go like that. Of course it would be good if this and local leaders, regional self-government tried to influence because simply everything that is tried in the Republic if something little remains for the fastest finger, if you have the Internet you can do something, if you have nothing. And so we cannot move forward on sustainable development, the survival of people in these areas. I mentioned the Dalmatian Zagora, I mentioned the property area, my Cetina province, Knin, the Knin region, the Sibenik hinterland, the Zadar hinterland, there are colleagues here who are from above, who realize that we have a lot of sunny days without using it. For the exclusive energy efficiency to be reduced to prisons, to houses on roofs, education is also mentioned in health institutions where energy efficiency is concerned and the county is sailing. That's the story, we've restored a little school from the European Funds and so, what's okay, but not enough for people to survive in these areas. The energy of the sea is much cheaper, we can have means of families independent of, energy independent throughout the Republic of Croatia, so they can be consumers and producers and tribbamo finally break out of the hands of some who control market prices or Vrdoljakov now the ruling Vrdoljak and its party who brought it during the SDP i.e. That's when he brought in the financing of renewable energy sources. So we're giving huge money, it's mostly monopolies that we don't actually know, here I am watching these wind power plants, I don't know one part, a piece of the wind power plant that's being produced in the Republic except when they're passing here last night and through Sinj with 70 meters, 80 of that elis has been blocked all over town. So no part of the wind power plant is produced in the Republic of Croatia. While the solars of photovoltaic cells microsolars we say it to the peoples, the law has been given to respected state secretaries and I expect that in the long run we can subdue all laws to ensure that people mainly in these 2/3 Croatians remain alive. That's why I'm most surprised here when members of the SDSS coalition partner's HDZ Club come here so often pay over the fates of the people on the ground where the people of the Serb national minority live, if they cared then they'd be the ones who would encourage this for those people, for the rest of those people. They don't care. It's only important to them to share in certain moments because that shameful statement when Petrinja came, when it was that despair people helped each other in the Clay then count blood cells, don't give God the dead that someone counted them here from the president of the club of the majority partner of you colleagues and colleagues from HDZ. That is something, and he did not propose this proposal to help people of both Serbian and Roma and other national minorities this energy independence of these families. Why doesn't he accept it? Why didn't he answer the theater now and cry over the fate of those people? You know why? Do I live with these people both Serbian national minorities and Croats who have difficulty living, and he has no idea what this is about. He's the only one who's good at business and trade with you in the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31582	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Ivo Milatić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31583	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Thank you for the discussion. This one during the debate was also some proposals like Mr. Totgergeli said to consider this deadline around this time to introduce, to introduce these criteria. That's where we put the six months, maybe it's not this one, maybe it wouldn't be bad if we extended it to the covid and all these difficulties to make it so much easier. As regards the proposal or the mention of the energy community by a few parliamentary representatives, it is true that the Energy Community Directive is being transposed and now current, but it will now be very soon here in this esteemed home first, first phase through the Electricity Market Act and then the amendment and addition of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources. When these two laws are harmonised and well regulated, then we will be able to have energy communities in Croatia, and we think it's something very good, but that it's very demanding and complicated to regulate and so we must do so so so that there will be no problem in the whole story. As for Agent Lenart and his finding practically nothing, it is not possible to agree on behalf of the government and on behalf of the ministry, these are no letters on paper, it is not this that nothing is wrong, it is not this that we do not have the capacity, will and everything the gentleman has listed, we simply have the capacity and will and results because, by virtue of these laws, this law, which so far is valid and this law, which we are changing this hundreds of millions of kuna investment and support by various funds and state budgets and local budgets in the Republic of Croatia, has been invested in facades. If there are any irregularities in these works, then it would be a duty for all of us if we knew that we were to inform some of the organs that should know about it. And as for Mr. Bull and his exposure, which is repeated on every law that our energy administration here proposes, which is so-called. microsolars. I can't take the impression as if it's just been slept over for a while, as if in 2018 at the 4th month when we had and passed a regulation that regulated this production from renewable sources in households for consumption and based on which since 2018. To date, not only in households but also in private plants and in, in economies, this in rural economies, family economies from 2018 to today has been installed almost 70 megawatts of solar plants in Croatia in hundreds of places. And you must know that from 2007, from the start of the solar support to 2018, 52, '3 megawatts of solars have been installed in Croatia. So it's not two years old. more than it was until then with that they weren't, there's not spending in the sense that she's being subsidized by kilowatts and by other means, so there are solarists, you can put them on the house. What's mentioned here is big paperwork, there's no paperwork. If you have a legal building permit and if you have a neat power connection you can get in 3-4 paper this permit to put on the roof solar capacity as much as your total power. So if you have a 25 kilowatt connection, you can put 25 kilowatts on the roof. What does that mean for you? That when you produce you spend your money, when you don't produce, when you don't spend it in, you put it in the net. The most important thing that you don't put into the network more than you can physically spend every year because more than 5 kilowatts of theoretically how much you don't already calculate the network because we released it and ultimately the result of that is that your electricity bill is 30% of the account you had before, which means that each of these projects is physically safe in 8 years. without having any incentive + this you have very often this in the tender fund for these microsolares where in some areas support goes over 50%. That means that this investment with the part that you're putting back in less than 2 years. If there is significant support, if there is less support, say 50-40% in 4-5.g. You bring her back without a problem, and after what we'd say, it's all your benefiite. And then here I keep saying that this government, or the previous government, and this government has done nothing, that absolutely I can't accept because it offends my knowledge and behavior and the behavior that we've been doing all these years. So right now, our administration is receiving huge amounts of documentation that Mr. Lenart mentioned, but obviously is not among them because he doesn't follow our laws because he thinks our laws are wrong and then with indignity he doesn't follow them, which neatly now people bring to the power plants because the Ministry of Agriculture, the paying agency and others in several places are serious competitions where they will co-finance for the serious funds of these self-supply facilities. The theme of the gentleman from Sinj I've already heard here for the fourth time since 30 kW is such a scam that I can't believe it's been mentioned here for the fourth time. If the gentleman from Sinj has a freezer, let him choose to join the ministry to explain to him what to do with that 30 kW if he has already installed them on the house and paid 60,000 euros. He must have a connection to that freezer and remove his self-supply and consumption documents and if he has invested 60,000 euros in the project and has held 60,000 euros for 10, 12 years to watch them then that man is obviously poorly informed by people who advise him on what to do. So he could have already paid off that project in one piece in these two years since this law existed. There was also a bridge that the Ministry of Energy had that connected the note to the environment, so much for those remarks that first combined the environment and energy. The bridge and HDZ then agreed on the Mosta initiative was a condition for the coalition for Mr Dobrovic to be minister. So let's not lie to the Croatian public here and yet some Bridge put it in and now this is what's left and we're not going to re-interrupt the ministries every five days, they're not potatoes. And what's very important to me to know, so the quickest finger, we absolutely support the theme that the fastest finger is not a good thing. From the administration that this ministry is leading with Minister Ciocic, the fastest finger in any regulation has no longer come out. You had a competition at CROTE the other day for this so-called. The mini contest for... wasn't the fastest finger, were the exact proposition all there had him still there on this, when there was a big competition there was no way to be the fastest finger. What was still in the fund was the fastest finger in the end, here is my colleague, Boric, who is there on the board of directors and our colleagues from the ministry, doing the best we can to make sure that the next competitions are not on the fastest finger because I absolutely agree. It's simple at a time when it was done people thought it was good faith. Today, we are aware that serious topics are being created and that people simply suspect that this is simply problematic and why we should even question that someone suspects that something is problematic and that we are all going towards a good goal. What I'd like to emphasize here as a man who comes from a part of the country that's terribly sunny and really has potentials, and that's next, so we as a ministry are doing everything that energy efficiency really is something that's going to come to life. We did this so that we managed to make a complete system of mandatory schemes in the past two years. It wasn't easy at all, but the people and all the bonds took it seriously in a way that very small foams paid the Energy Efficiency Fund, I think very little money they paid. That's very good because we didn't make this law so that we could deepen our economy and our energy suppliers rather than force them to save and help themselves. Then who are they helping? They help the state, they help all of us. And that's what happened, I'm sure it'll happen safely in times to come and I'm not so pessimistic that it's going to happen because the state is going to move out and because we're going to empty the country. Why so much ink doesn't make it clear to me, here's me as a citizen, who for a man of 50 and almost three years is a serious taxpayer who lives in this country, works and contributes, why have so much pessimism, why don't we all together say that this is a good thing that we all have to do together. I absolutely agree with Mrs. Bencic that this energy poverty we also introduce some additional criteria, but it's not that simple, because when you start from what's only the social censorship that's the easiest because we have a ministry that will provide us with the data, if we go to this second category that the lady suggested here, now the question is, if we go to some house to sort out whether it's his property, whether it's in the lease, is that, it's very complicated, it's not quite that simple. But let's clearly say that now in the areas affected by the earthquake, especially in Banovina, it will all go from the energy poverty fund, literally all these connections that have now been put on top of it all went to HEP, and it should clearly be subdued, or recognised, and in energy savings when HEP as one of the biggest taxpayers of our HEP and INA, they will see it as savings because this law will enable them to do so. Well, on that behalf, I thank you all. We're going to listen closely to everything here that's been said and we're going to make possible and some adjustments, and I hope we come very quickly with another reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31584	Thank you very much. Stay here and we have more replicas, but we also have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. We don't, okay. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Silvana Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31585	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I take it my right to defend my colleague Lenart because I listened to his argument and he didn't accuse you anywhere that you did a little bit, but he was talking about the potentials of the green economy, and the way a grade likes it, that's another thing, let the grades go on the side. Secondly, yes, it's true that the rules have changed about the installation of solar panels, but whoever's holed up, pitted, whoever grabbed the trigger grabbed it, and then there's no incentive after that, but you have to build it yourself and then report that they're buying you electricity, and before that, the incentives were triple that we understand each other. And I'd like to ask you a question, and I agree with you that the fastest finger is no solution because it discriminates on citizens, which I think we can all say here. And last I ask, how do you do on Hvar, what do you do with olive bones? Just tell me, what are you doing with olive bones?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31586	Dear Secretary of State, what are you doing with olive bones?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31587	What am I doing with olive bones? I do nothing, but the gentleman who processes these olives I pay him neatly. As far as I know, he's working on PS, he's got those certificates, he's got the processing plant and living wonders, so, I think we're doing what's greatest possible from that. But as for the fact that "who has pitted" this in the sense that there is no more incentive for solars, there is an incentive for solarists. The other day it was, the other day there was a contest that didn't even get enough projects up to 500 so-called. Fid-in, we call it guaranteed, guaranteed support, but you've had one day a fid-in solar competition of up to 500, up to 500 kilowatts where this gentleman could pick up at 30 kilowatts, and he didn't answer because I just don't know why people don't read, and we keep talking, communicating, announcing, and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31588	Next, the next replica is the respected representative of Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31589	Nice greeting, Vice President HS. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm interested in a few things. What have you done to create a system that would precisely define who is energy poor in the Republic of Croatia and how to help these people and who is in potential danger of becoming energy poor? I read that data, 10% of the people in our country live without adequate heating, 29% of the people couldn't get a regular readout, and 66% live in households whose total cost of housing is a significant financial burden. So here's one more concrete thing, what do you do on your part to build a just system and that we know exactly who's energy poor? And this is how it turns out that sometimes the only measure that the state gives, if we're talking about citizens of social aid and those 200 kunas if I'm not mistaken, it's like those of my people in Rijeka... They're sharing a lot of apricots. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31590	Thank you very much. Uh, honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31591	We can legally predict how and how to help energy poor people, and clearly that we would have a detailed picture of who is energy poor, we must have data, we have data in the Ministry of Social Welfare. We need to have more recent data that will be the result of a list that should happen very soon because the old one was long ago and after that, by the basis of all these laws, I absolutely agree with you that then, by certain sublaws, maybe some things can be done in more detail. But I'm warning you that it's simply not that simple this measure except for what we have now abruptly and suddenly do, but that we should work on it absolutely agree and that, that, we think about it, but it's just one process that's about to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31592	The next replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31593	Thank you very much. Col. Milatić, you heard the debate of my colleagues, Bulja, who I think announced the candidacy for Mayor Sinj when he said that everyone in Sinj would have a microsolar when he probably became mayor and that should make us all happy. The question is what will the sun say and will he look forward to, how much energy he will send down to that city when he becomes mayor. Why am I saying that? So because, in order to become probably a member of the MOST, you have to have a microsolar, that's first. Secondly, I believe that they all have Petrov on a newly built facility, probably a colleague of Bulj, Grmoja, Miletic you also have a microsolar somewhere or any other member, they have it and they want it by law prescribed by all citizens and they claim that the state does nothing about it. You speak the opposite, we have the money, we call the competition, but there are certain conditions. They're all simple and you don't understand, and that's the future. If you're going to be a member of the Most, you have to have a microsolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31594	Thank you, I don't have any... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31595	Wait a minute, my colleague Bulj has broken his Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31596	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31597	You can't do this anymore. I'm not looking, I'm looking, I'm watching, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31598	Okay? Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A colleague, Boric, was injured by an article. 238, it seems to me he's running for mayor of Sinj, I'm the only one who can thank him, but I didn't run, I don't know where you got that obsession, I don't know what you're talking about? He's hurt his ankle. 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31599	Okay, I'm giving you a warning because of course it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31600	Well, I can write down a note, too, but the violation of Rules of Procedure is 238, and the MP can't impute another representative whether he has or doesn't have a solar system in place or we're talking about arguments, or let's not impute ourselves into things because it doesn't make any sense, we could go unconscious like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31601	I agree, we often go into unconsciousness and do that and it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. And now this respected secretary of state will respond to the replica. No, no, no, I don't think you've yet responded to the replica of your colleague, Boric... And it is, then it's fine. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Then we'll go to the next replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31602	Thank you. So, I am glad that Croatia is turning to the development of the potential of the green economy, but all of this will remain in vain, and so will implementation of this law until we solve the problem of the state of governance of the economy, so it is the state that shakes the economy in the wrong way. Why am I saying that? I'm glad you finally admitted that the big problem in implementing the fund's bid was the fastest finger system. But what about competitions for hiring key people in the body like the Energy Efficiency Fund? I am saying this because Luka Burilović is a member of the Governing Council of that institution and he best says that in public bodies that should deal with specific matter on the basis of our expertise and competence we choose politically similar people, and then it is not surprising that the results of such a body's work are so devastating and pathetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31603	We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31604	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the officer has been injured. 238th in the section that the lady does not behave properly in the Croatian Parliament or in the Assembly because she is false. There is a Law on the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund where it clearly writes or how members of the Management Board are chosen, so that one of the members under that law and a member of the HGK, so that its insinuations on the subject of Mr Burilovic are maliciously interpreting these provisions in order to make it nice or useful to her.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31605	Thank you very much. My colleague, Boric, and you know that this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure because not telling the truth is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately. If it were a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would very, very often have to give warnings and half an O.R. probably wouldn't be in there. But I can't tell if anyone's telling the truth or not telling the truth, it's not my duty or my obligation. So, of course, you get a warning too. Here you go, colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31606	Thank you, colleague, for drawing attention to a very important topic and giving me the opportunity to explain that there has been an injury here as well. 238. In fact, the fact that a person is placed on a particular key does not rule out a political likeness at the same time. I said that Croatia's main problem is that politics is directed by the economy and then also by the HGK in which it should also be chosen by the economy's leaders to choose the primary person who supports politics rather than the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31607	It's a replica not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I give you a warning. Please respond to the replica now, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31608	So here I can just answer, I guess I won't get a warning that what Mr. Boric said is true, so there's a fund law where it's detailed who manages the fund, and that's exactly what the board manages the fund in the right sense, in detail it's prescribed. We are not only opinions but we know that this board of directors manages the fund well and that everything that is done there is done legally and by the rules. And because someone thinks that the state is being run wrong, it's just someone's opinion that the state manages the wrong economy, the first state doesn't run the economy, the state manages the laws and all those activities that the state manages, puts people in their businesses in those companies that aren't state-owned by someone else, and that's that, I don't have anything else to add.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31609	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31610	Thank you. I'd just like your comment on this part where you say the law doesn't require any additional means of implementation. As I said in my presentation on behalf of the club, I think we should really organise a special campaign that actually means promoting the importance of energy efficiency, and especially training in the urban and state urban sectors, so training of officials working to prepare project documentation, so here's just a comment that the law does not require additional funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31611	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31612	Thank you. The fact that the law does not require additional resources does not mean that the law will not spend any serious resources. It means that this law would lead to HSA, we had to have a PFO form from the Ministry of Economy that accepts all possible investments under the new law. It is clear that the basis of this law is huge investment and it is foreseen in various budgets, especially in the budget of the Republic of Croatia to the state and the one of the funds and other institutions. So that part provides for funding, and that doesn't have to be further addressed. And as for training in municipalities and cities, I think there are already quite a lot of trained people, these are the people who make energy efficiency plans, implement and do all that. Clearly, any additional education and campaign would be welcome, but I think enough people are already working well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31613	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31614	Dear Secretary of State. When the solarians were inserted into the subject of this law even though they were not in it, you well concluded that you believed that this would happen and that there would be good examples by responding to the discussions of some colleagues. However, we have good examples of this type all over Croatia, only some good examples are mentioned, and some negatives are more highlighted. We have the solar power plant the latest on Cres, we have a number of economic operators that use these benefits, so they built solar power plants on their halls, the type in our industrial zone in Bakr, Companies..., MONT-COMERC,... so the embrace of such good examples in the Republic of Croatia, and not much is spoken of. And the thing that bothers me most is that every time there's a law and this kind of thinking and what we're talking about, it's always something that has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31615	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31616	I would absolutely agree with you and this matter of billions that we invest in renewable sources simply more topics that make no sense. We are not investing any billions in the sense that we are throwing them, but simply we have created a system which, like all EU countries, has resulted in today having a thousand and almost 100 MW of renewable energy sources that will in the next two years still have 600, 700 MW of renewable energy up to 2026 more, and by 2030, 2000 more, a total of 3,500 MW of renewable energy is certain, we are confident that this will be because if the demand for a statement of interest is now only 6,500 MW, and di is still 2030, so the future in renewables is good for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31617	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31618	Dear Secretary of State, it's a good thing you've come to me through a few rhetorical figures, so I won't take it as an insult, no matter what good suggestions I've made about myself and the solarians, and I've expressed my position because for living in reality, I live down there, and I see these possibilities that we have, and that's through the proposal given. However, it is not good that you insult a man who has visited all institutions for years, passed and... And the fund, in fact, he didn't even help him with his money, which he wasn't allowed to get into the quota of some kind, a quota that, half the night of New Year, was being solved through HNS, you know what it was about, so renewable energy sources had their own particular quota that was being allocated, it was important that you share with Todoric or I don't know who, but these people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've been telling you all along that social sensitivity to people who are at risk is mostly about energy, this security, it's about microsolars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31619	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31620	I'm still standing in front of my position that we have a framework for what you're saying, and if you've estimated that I'm an offended gentleman, I apologize to him in advance from this place, but also, I call on him that if he has such a problem to speak freely to the Ministry and try to help a man because, ultimately, that's what we all get paid to solve problems, people, citizens, entrepreneurs. And there, I had so much to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31621	Thank you very much. That's what we're going to conclude to discuss this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Now we're going to the next point, and that's: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration, first reading, P.Z. No. 89; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31624	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. First of all, I welcome all the distinguished MPs and MPs in HS. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Statutory Act with an increase in duration. First of all, it should be noted that the Institute is an internship with an increased duration, i.e. popularly called or so on. a well-infected work experience established to protect employees of persons with disabilities in particular for the health and working capacity of persons with disabilities and persons with disabilities. So we're talking about a preventive role in order to preserve health. With the reform of the pension system from 1 January 2019, a package of 6 pension laws, including the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration. Then we made adjustments to the conditions and technologies of the 21st century. The Insurance Statutory Act defines 3 categories of insurance who have the right to so-called insurance. Beneficiary work experience, which are workers who work, as I have already said, in particular for the difficult health and job skills of harmful jobs, are workers who work in professions that require special psychophysiological functions of organisms that decline with an increase in the age of life, and these are insurance people with disabilities that are precisely, whose diagnosis is precisely prescribed in the law, and I will now specify them. It is about people suffering from dystrophy and related muscle and neuromuscular diseases, suffering from paraplegia, cerebral and child paralysis, multiple sclerosis and related diseases, blind persons, deaf persons, deaf-blind persons, people suffering from rheumatoid arthritis and other systemic inflammatory joint and connective tissue diseases, people who are unable to move on their own because of, without the use of wheelchairs and persons with Down syndrome. Therefore, the law defines 3 categories of insurance undertakings which, under precisely prescribed conditions, are recognised as an increase in life insurance and are reduced to the age limit for the recognition of age pension rights. Every 12 months, the effective job life insurance rate increases by 2, 3, 4 or 6 months, which is why we're talking about 12 by 14, 12 by 15, 12 by 16, or 12 by 18. It is important to point out that those rights may be exercised only on condition that they are full-time employees or part-time workers considered to be full-time employees. An exception is prescribed for persons with disabilities whose internship can be counted for an increased duration and based on part-time employment, respecting, of course, their health status. It is also important to stress that there is a positive trend in employment of people with disabilities in recent years in continuous growth, and the biggest increase is recorded right after the application of the new Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. According to HZZ data from the total number of disabled persons, more than 95% of people are employed on the basis of a working relationship, and slightly more than 4% are persons working on the basis of other business activities, including self-employment. Also, what I must stress is that according to HZZ data from the previous year of 33 people using self-employment incentives and job conservation measures, 14 of them have the status of persons with disabilities, and HZMO data, so the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute says that 32 persons with disabilities registered to compulsory pension insurance as independent deposit bonds and most craftsmen, as well as those who carry out their professional activity on their own. Therefore, this bill proposes to allow insurance to persons with disabilities who have just been taxed and who are listed in this law to provide them with an unfettered working experience not only in periods of employment and employment but also in periods of insurance and other insurance, such as professional activity, crafts, agriculture, forestry and others, or when self-employed every 12 months is considered as 15 months, which is, in fact, an increase of 3 months per year. In addition, the obligation to pay pension insurance contributions for self-intentionary depositors or account insurance standings shall be subject to an increased duration solely on the basis of paid contributions for pension insurance under the provisions of the Contribution Act. In this respect, it should be pointed out that the payer and the payer are an additional contribution to pension insurance for an increase in the duration of the insurance of persons with disabilities of the Republic of Croatia. For a person who is a pension insurance only on the basis of generational solidarity or first instance, an additional contribution of 7.84% is calculated and for a person who is an insurance and pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, i.e. at a rate of 5.83%. Following all of these insurance companies or disabled persons, they will be able to lower the age limit for the recognition of age pension rights or be able to exercise their right to retirement earlier than the regular conditions prescribed by the PSO or the Pension Insurance Act. The age-limit prescribed for retirement, as I have already said, will be reduced by one year each for all five years of insurance training, which counts for an effective 12 months as a 15-month insurance internship. Following all that I have said, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to pass this law, primarily bearing in mind the need for additional protection of this category of disabled insurance persons as well as their more active inclusion in the working environment through different forms of work, while also respecting the reason for the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the category of persons entitled to internships with increased duration and the reduction of age limits for the exercise of age pension rights. This is, above all, their difficult health condition that causes lasting consequences for life and work unlike the other two categories of insurance companies which have the right to do so solely because of the harmful influence and nature of the job itself which is related to certain jobs and occupations. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to allow people with disabilities to have an increased duration of insurance regardless of the basis on which they are provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31625	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. She is the first respected representative of Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31626	Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed State Secretarys Act supplementing the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration applies exclusively to persons with disabilities who are one of the most vulnerable groups in society. Tell me, what does the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia do for their position on the labour market and in general in society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31627	Respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31628	Thank you, Mrs Buricevic, so what I must mention is that since 2015 there has been a law relating to professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Since the law is in force, people with disabilities have a much more favourable position on the labour market. In the previous term of this government, so far we have invested in encouraging employment of persons with disabilities almost half a billion kuna. What I have to say is that on average, we employ about 3,000 people with disabilities annually. At present, about 14,000 people with disabilities have been employed, and what I must say is that the amendments and additions to the law that I initially cited also led to a much better position in the labour market for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31629	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31630	Thank you, Vice President. In this bill, we are talking about positive discrimination in the segment of people with disabilities, which I think is excellently related to positive discrimination and putting in a better position of persons with disabilities alone, on the labour market itself. I think we can be satisfied with the statistics of these last few years regarding the singleness and employability of people with disabilities in our society. I'm curious to know how many jobs are finally covered by this well-favoured internship is there a list or a qualification of the jobs themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31631	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31632	Thank you. Dear Parliamentarian Bačić, therefore, first of all, the answer to your question, very concretely, with the latest amendments and additions of the Insurance Internship Act with the increased duration that we adapted to the 21st century technologies and conditions, we have reduced the number of jobs in which there are no ben jobs from 95 jobs to 52 jobs, so 43 have been abolished because there is no one on the labour market who does so at all, these jobs do not exist, there are no workers working in those jobs, and by 22 of these jobs we have reduced the rate of increase according to course as I said to the conditions and technologies of the 21st century. As far as they were concerned, there were 11, we increased to 13 according to the elaborate. It's working. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31633	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31634	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the aim of the bill is to enable disabled persons to achieve the benefits prescribed by law. We know that the basic regulation governing the status of persons with disabilities is precisely the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and on the basis of this, but also the continuation of what you have previously stated, I am interested in the current situation in the employment of persons with disabilities, whether employers prefer to pay the penalty or, or employees with disabilities, and what can we, as a society or individuals, do to encourage these same employers in the employment of persons with disabilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31635	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31636	I'd like to thank the esteemed MPs, Maximchuk. So the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic is making extraordinary efforts to improve, improve the living conditions of people with disabilities, and also with regard to their position on the labour market. You yourself mentioned the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities which actually introduces the quota system and obliges all employers who have more than 20 employees to employ a certain number of people with disabilities and that quota is 3% compared to the total number of employees. Now you asked how employers behave? In principle 1/3 of employers employ people with disabilities and thus actually fulfil their legal obligation, and 2/3 of employers are, in fact, bonds of payment of cash compensation or use some other substitute, a substitute that actually fulfils the legal obligation to meet the employment of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31637	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31638	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, here you have now mentioned that employers who do not fulfil obligations pay certain money into the state budget. So my question is, in this direction, that these firms that don't have a competition, who don't receive these people with disabilities, they pay the same price, and in what direction does that money go, how do you spend it, and is that good support for those people with disabilities who aren't employed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31639	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31640	Thank you. Dear Mr Simičević, therefore, concerning the employment of persons with disabilities or employment obligations exist in, the law also prescribes a replacement quota or substitution if the employer cannot hire a person with disabilities because, for example, there is no or any real situation in that county, which is why this person cannot report to the employer. As regards replacement quotas, the Republic of Croatia does have a large range, which refers to receiving the practice of students with developmental disabilities, hiring students with disabilities, receiving persons with disabilities to training, scholarships to regular training of persons with disabilities or contracting with protective and integrated workshops. All that if the employer [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31641	Thank you very much. The following replicas of the respected representative Renate Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31642	I'd like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. Here we are today on the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussing a lot of things, but I would just come back, I must say I'm surprised that as many as 2/3 of employers decide not to hire, not to hire people with disabilities. And I'm curious about which jobs are most often employed by those disabled people, do you have any insights, any statistics where these people are employed most often?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31643	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31644	Thank you very much. So, Your Honor, ma'am. What I should particularly point out is that, during the year, about 9700 employers who are actually bonds of the quota based on the law, which are employers who employ at least 20 workers and more and who, in fact, have to employ 3% of them with disabilities, or if they can't meet any of the substitute quotas, as I said, can be the conclusion of a contract with a protective or integral workshop, it can be a scholarship of students and students with developmental difficulties, receiving students in practice, etc., the beauty of these substitutes in the Republic is really wide. So I said and this data confirms that 1/3 of employers, or around 3,200, employ people with disabilities and thus fully fulfils their legal obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31645	Thank you. The following replicas of the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31646	... Thank you, so thank you on behalf of all disabled persons in the Republic of Croatia. [[Last-on speaker]] This is what was missing and it will certainly improve the lives and work of all our disabled. However, we have 13 professions and 52 jobs that include a ben internship. I'm curious to know what kind of methodology and protocol is to come up with an examination of whether it's something for the benefit of an internship or not, since it's very common to hear such a flat-rate assessment let's give them a certified job internship, let's just introduce them for 3 months, for 2 months, can you explain it a little bit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31647	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31648	Thank you very much. Respected representatives of Grba Bujević you are right, regulations are rules and procedures should be followed. The procedure you're asking me about, here I am now going to try to explain it briefly. The incentive to establish a new job or profession which has a ben working position may be given either by the employer or by the trade union on the basis of the expert documentation drawn up according to the specifically prescribed methodology. The methodology has been published in the National Journal 20/19, we are talking about the Regulation on the methodology of the production of professional documentation to determine the periods of insurance with an increased duration. Therefore, professional documentation must be attached to a specific workplace or to a specific occupation, and we cannot in any way have a collective approach, that is legally impossible and is in conflict with the Methodology Regulation. After that, this elaborate and this material actually comes at the final stage to the desk of the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31649	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected MPs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31650	Thank you. Respected secretary of state. Extending these rights to self-employed persons is also important in terms of increasing employability and motivation to enter the world of work of people with disabilities. This advantage certainly directs them to open their own jobs by opening up trades, companies, cooperatives, associations and similar business activities. If you expect this to encourage people with disabilities and to make more significant use of active employment policy measures from HZZ's competence, which are implemented in parallel with post-preservation support in 2021. they still contain so-called positive discrimination in terms of a higher amount of support to employers who employ disabled persons, but also self-employment where they are equal to other users?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31651	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31652	Dear Parliamentarian Radosevic. Therefore, around 1,400 people with disabilities are included in active employment policy measures annually. What I must especially point out in this respect is that in the employment support measure, the employer is co-financed by 70% of the salary cost for a disabled person, while for the rest of the groups, it is 50% of the salary cost. Also, people with disabilities in the course of one year can use more measures, which is also positive, as well as persons with disabilities if they are included in the public work measure, the employer is financed 100% of the salary cost, and in the event that persons with disabilities decide to start their own job, then they can achieve support for self-employment of up to 130,000 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31653	Thank you very much. The next replica of respected MPs Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31654	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. You have listed several laws and regulations that have been passed by the previous government and this government all in order to stimulate or encourage the greatest employment of people with disabilities, as well as to encourage employers to hire them. As I can tell the experience as an employer very often we also had a problem creating favourable work conditions, adapting the workplace and the job for a disabled person and enabling them to meet some other needs that so person with the basis of his disability should have. Very often, regular employees were at the service of such a new colleague at work. Are measures towards employers also aimed at adapting space?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31655	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31656	Thank you. Dear Parliamentarian, Murganic. So what we have to say is that yearly, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is actually building up about 200 million kunas. Now, these financial resources are used to encourage the employment of people with disabilities, as well as the work of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation. What the Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is doing is financing both salaries and contributions costs for compulsory health insurance, education costs, job adjustment costs that you said something about. installation of elevators or the like, the cost of adapting working conditions e.g. customized computer for blind persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31657	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31658	Respected secretary of state. I know this is the whole system of creation, especially about professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities, but it doesn't need to stop. I think we should talk a lot louder and motivate employers who go deaf in some way, they rather pay than hire people with disabilities. This I appreciate the lack of empathy of employers for hiring people with disabilities disrespecting the fact that there are weaker ones who simply cannot compete for jobs on the labour market and with small adjustments where they can free themselves from paying the one by obligation to the fund could be arranged at jobs for people with disabilities. So I miss one wider social climate, and the funds, I agree, there's enough, we even borrowed during the covid for other purposes funds from the fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31659	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31660	Thank you. Your Honor, MP Hrelja. So in a certain part, I will agree with you that we should all continue to act together on the sensibility of the disabled society and on their position on the labour market and in society in general. However, I would also like to go back to this part that you mentioned about employers, not that much of them would rather pay them, it's not true, you might have misunderstood me a little bit. So one third of employers who are bonds of quota employment employ people with disabilities and thus fulfil their legal obligation. Two-thirds not only pay but as instructed or employ students with developmental difficulties or scholarship them or have contracts with protective and integral workshops or as one option pay 20% minimum wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31661	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31662	Thank you, dear Vice President. Madam Secretary of State Buric. We will agree that persons with disabilities are one special group that needs company support for inclusion in the world of work and therefore welcomes any changes that are going in this direction. You pointed out in particular if I noticed correctly in your opening statement that they have been effective since 2019. There has been increased employment of persons with disabilities in Croatia. Do I understand you correctly? Can you tell me then, if I understand you correctly, how HZZ says it's in 2020? 2.475 people with disabilities which is 12.2% less than 2019. when an employee is 2,820 people with disabilities or says that the trend over the last three years has been steadily decreasing?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31663	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31664	Thank you. Your Honor, Mrs. Guilty. So once again, I will point out that from the moment we have the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, it is 2015. the position of persons with disabilities on the labour market is greatly improved. Since October 2016, we have been talking about the previous and current mandate of this government in the employment of people with disabilities nearly half a billion kunas have been invested. I'll repeat, about 14,500 people with disabilities were employed today. Now, if we want to specify, then I have to say, in the period from 10 months 2016 to today, from the records of the office, only 12,400 people with disabilities were employed from the records of the office. And as for unemployment at HZZ at the annual level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31665	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31666	Dear Secretary of State Buric, the esteemed Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I won't be long, so the state needs to take care of people with disabilities that's not controversial. Here you mentioned more people who are affected by this law, I listened carefully and I saw that you actually stopped at people who have Down syndrome which is fine, everything's fine, I didn't hear some categories that should be covered as well. people who have autism, so they're not mentioned here. And as for autism, I suppose you know because it's your resort, it's done for new diagnostics and maybe for some other reasons, there are more and more people who have special needs and have autism. But I must stress that many of these people could be placed on the labour market or they could fall into this category if they were covered by this law. So my point is that you're just a few categories of people who have a disability of this kind or that kind you've classified, but if you've left out some categories and I'm just reminding you of one key category because there's a lot of our people who have autism, and we could still sort of put ourselves on the labour market. So, that's one of my warnings, and I think all those who have children or someone in the family who has autism will know what I'm talking about. The other thing that I would have mentioned here is we're talking about an internship in general, when we're talking about pensions that actually come from the internships, I'm not sure we're going to have enough of those who have done or enough people who have done enough internships to get someone to retire tomorrow, so that's a big, big problem at all, and I think we're going to need one complete reconstruction of that system, and that's, among other things, your problem. But I'll say it again, turn on all categories absolutely because I think some categories are left out of this bill of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31667	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the green-left block, and the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31668	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So, as we have said, as we are briefly recapitalising, the rights of this law on the training of insurance with increased duration so far have been achieved by employees on particularly difficult and health-hazarded jobs, further employees who, at an older age, have fallen physiologically or have fallen due to the nature of work, and also by persons with disabilities, now, according to the proposed amendments and additions of this law, this right will also be possible for persons with disabilities who are not employed in full-time as well as some other persons, and that I would not be too much longer than this is the act of this law which needs to be welcomed in any case. We therefore support him, we greet him he is absolutely necessary, progressive and we will therefore support him anyway. Of course, this is not necessary enough, it is also necessary to make additional efforts in caring for this most vulnerable group of our citizens and, as already said in replicas and in response to these replicas, to provide additional instruments and incentives to encourage the employment of people with disabilities. On this occasion, this occasion still took advantage of the opportunity to point to, to, to, to, to, to a broader problem or to an additional problem which, in a broader sense, concerns all those who exercise the rights laid down in the Law on the training of insurance with an increased duration and, more generally, about all persons who go into retirement because of the loss of work ability or what is said in a simpler language in a disabled pension. I would draw attention to the fact that, under the Mandatory Pension Funds Act, any insurance undertaking leaving retirement has the right to resist, has the right to choose between two options, which is to make pensions from two parts in such a way that part of the pension is paid from HZMO, that is, from the first pension pillar, and the second part of the pension to be paid to him from an appropriate pension society on the basis of individual capitalised savings. So that's one option. The second option would be more favourable for him, so his pension would be fully paid from the first pillar of HZMO as if he had never taken part in the second pillar. In that case, if, for him, this other option is more favourable, the funds that are in his pension account are therefore transferred to the state budget. On the side now that there are some technical problems and not only technical in the definition of these rights, he wanted to draw attention to the following. Since recently this right has been enjoyed by all insurance companies, until recently this right to rely was limited only to those who were between 40 and 50 years old at the moment of activation of the second pillar. Since recently, everyone or almost everyone has the right to do so. In fact, everyone but those who goes into disability pensions. This Regulation shall enter The mandatory pension fund law says that any insurance company going into disability pension has achieved less than 55 years, so less than 10 years of internship and has less than 55 years of life must necessarily be returned to the first pillar so that I say, so he can't resist and his pension will be paid by law only from the first pillar under the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act. In the vast majority of cases, therefore, in the vast majority of cases insurance companies going into disability pensions, therefore in retirement due to loss of employment will indeed make a more favourable pension exclusively from the first pillar as if they had never participated or had not, but it is not always necessary. This is not particularly so for those or not necessarily necessary for those who have achieved a very large number of years of internships and there is in fact no reason for this provision to be made in Article 101. The Mandatory Pension Funds Act is so restrictive and therefore so exclusive that it is, therefore, decidently determined that these insurance companies should be returned to the first pillar. In that sense, we will need to take care of it, and we will advocate that this inappropriate legal solution is improved when possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31669	Thank you, too. Mr. Daniel Spajic will speak in front of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31670	The Honored Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, the existing Security Interval Act, with an increased duration of 2019, defines persons and jobs who account for insurance with increased duration and lowers the age limit for the acquisition of age pension rights. We have these essential three categories, which are particularly difficult and for health and work capacity for harmful jobs, insurance companies that, after certain years of life because of the nature and weight of the job, reduce the physiological function of the organism prevents further successful performance of this work and we have persons with disabilities. This bill proposes a kind of positive discrimination against persons with disabilities by enabling the rights of the law of that person in the future not only in cases that exclusively relate to employment but also in other forms of pension insurance, such as top-notch athletes, independent activities, craftsmen, religious officials, etc. The funds for this enlargement of rights are provided in the budget. In the first year, 300,000 kuna, then 400,000 kuna. The introduction of this positive discrimination is also in line with the law, with the EU acquis. Since the Homeland Movement advocates a fair and socially sensitive society, we certainly support such forms of positive discrimination against persons who unfortunately have suffered from such diseases that reduce their working abilities and functionality. However, from the scope of the change, or the number of persons affected and the financial resources required, it was hardly worth doing this bill. Our pension system needs radical changes for which thorough reforms are necessary. On several occasions, the Homeland Movement stressed that the wrong policies of the duo-poly back 20 years integrate and give their full negative synergy effect precisely in the area of pension policy. While the European Commission is concerned that by 2060, because the number of employees and pensioners will fall from 4 to 2, our dual has made sure that we already have a 1.2 to 1 ratio because we have launched 30 years in the future ahead of the rest of the EU in a negative way. While the number of pensioners has increased over 20% since the beginning of the century and demographic trends will continue to increase, so far our number of employees is still at 2006 level. Out of the total necessary cca 40 billion kunas even for these miserable pensions with which a good part of the pensioners barely survive, barely half of them are collected through employee contributions, while the other half is financed from taxes and other budgets. The investment potential of as many as 125 billion kunas in private pension funds is very poor. The most important thing was to get your people into the management boards of the management company in order to convey their good practices to public enterprises and property management. In order to significantly improve the standards of pensioners, not raise the average pension by 50, 60 kuna a year, the deficit of the pension fund based on generation solidarity is needed, generational. To illustrate what needs to be done to achieve this is a useful example of how we need 30% more jobs and 50% higher average wages. The analyses say that from the beginning of the century to today we have developed on average as the rest of Eastern Europe would either be at that goal or be close to it. At that time, we were at the top of the Czech Republic and Slovenia, and today, Bulgaria and I are lactating at the beginning of the table. Because of the catastrophic relationship towards entrepreneurship and investors, there is no shift in the overall number of jobs. Kilive measures of systematic approach to re-industrialisation and digitalisation of the country are the reason why we do not have an increase in productivity and wage average. The 2021 draft budget adopted at the end of last year shows that the government is not planning any reforms or substantial shifts in these areas. Therefore, gentlemen, it is clear that Croatia would be in a significantly better position both in terms of the state of the pension system and in other areas if there were no more trade coalitions, nepotism, corruption, poor governance of public goods and the sale of national interests. And once again we stress these proposals of the law we support, but they are far too little compared to what the ruling can and must do in the area of the overall pension policy. Reforms, reforms, reforms and only reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31671	It is now up to Mrs Ivana Posavec Krivec who will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31672	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary with Associates, SDP Club fully supports and welcomes the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Insurance Intervention Act with an increased duration which your ministry has organised and proposed here to the Croatian Assembly. The promoter has extended the circle of persons with disabilities who exercise the right to include persons in employment relationship and persons in working relationship with equal status and on other grounds. These changes indirectly influence the increased employability of disabled persons as the value of restrictions stemmed from disability, while at the same time encouraging them to make full use of their working potential and stay in the world of work. We therefore believe that the proposed amendments represent a supportive measure for the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to all forms of work. The draft law proposes to fully regulate the status of insurance or persons with disabilities in relation to the possibility of achieving an insurance standing with an increased duration and to reduce the age-limit for the exercise of age-retirement rights. Therefore, the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia as a party to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities are also met, which we believe is a special underline. The proposed law sets out categories of insurance undertakings, persons with disabilities from the other 2 categories of insurance companies that can exercise the rights of the law, which are those insurance undertakings working on particularly difficult and for the health of jobs and the ability of harmful jobs and insurance undertakings who pursue occupations in which after certain years of life, due to the nature and severity of the work of the physiological function of the organism fall to the extent that they prevent further successful performance of that job. And of course it's clear that this is one of the legal proposals that is a kind of positive discrimination of people with disabilities, but it's for the progressive society that we are looking at perfectly normal and acceptable. Now, since this is the first reading and we expect that there may be a second reading, perhaps even an analysis of what is said on behalf of the clubs here today, I would like to highlight only a few facts on behalf of the SDP Club. One of the facts is that these amendments to the law are not included in the list of persons or invalidities that are covered, which was pointed out by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities in his annual report in one of the parts of the report relating to just the benefited employment. So there, the Ombudsman presented a series of examples of people with disabilities in practice in art skills in cases of recognition of an unfavourable job experience. There are also these situations mentioned by a colleague who spoke before me, but I will not go here individually from case to case, but I will only ask you to consider the possibility that, as the attorney has just suggested, he would have formed a guideline or obliged minister, the competent minister of making instructions or some regulation that would have been completely set out in a law that would have made it easier to understand in the art process and where there would be no misunderstanding at that time, because often our administration strictly adheres to what is written in the law and then comes to some injustice in determining who has, and who doesn't have the right because not all of the diagnosis is exactly the same, and in fact may be driven from the same spectrum. That would be, that would be our request to maybe consider it until, until the second reading. Furthermore, in this whole story, we want to point out that the lives of persons with disabilities in Croatia are still relatively difficult because there are a lot of legal regulations and legal acts that would make their integration into society, and then, in particular, make it easier and use this opportunity to especially emphasize it. We are pleased that there are special self-employment measures for people with disabilities, we follow what measures they are, and we think that they will greatly help to improve the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market. At the same time, we also worry about the fact that many employers in the Republic of Croatia, and in your opening presentation, respected state secretaries still fail to meet the obligation of quota employment of disabled persons, or in some ways, as colleagues and colleagues have already said, it is often easier for them to pay the amount that has been determined for them than to employ people with disabilities. Sometimes there are excuses that may be geographical and other reasons, but often there are no excuses. We would love to have the possibility to further improve the possibility of really a large number of people with disabilities who can compete on the labour market and find their jobs because, in society, they are otherwise integrated, feeling different and simply it is very important for their complete psychophysical development to be active participants and to have their position on the labour market. So, we'd all be much happier together, no matter what party we belong to, when these over 200 million kunas of penalties for non-employment of people with disabilities could in some way turn into specific jobs. Of course, we look forward to and here what is envisaged and the employment of persons with disabilities who care about other persons and that, we support it in the law, but we are still so concerned, and that is not directly referred to you and the question of the Law on Personal Assistants, the issue of the Law on Inclusion, the issue of the National Strategy and the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we still do not have a clear policy in the Republic in which institutions would integrate persons with disabilities. Most often, in society we are left to the work of associations, individuals and deinstitutionalisation is often in a circle, within that area of the civil sector. With all this being, it would be our appeal that the information on changes to the law be as simple as possible and that perhaps some media campaign is behind it because we are often in a situation where people with disabilities are not even aware of the rights arising from a series of laws, and we assume not everyone is equally available, and we assume that these changes could greatly facilitate their position in society. Here, as I said at the very beginning, the SDP Club will support this law in the first reading. We believe that there are a number of quality solutions behind it, that it is needed by Croatian society. We believe that there are also a few things that are not fully solved and that may not be fully consistent with the examples of other countries. There is always an interest in getting some new occupations into the catalogue of the profession of the benefits. We don't think it's necessary at this point because in any profession where there are difficult working conditions, it can be compensated for money. So, with the higher salary, and what's now in the catalogue of the benefited internship, we don't think it should actually spread. What still worries us a little bit when we analyze the fact that many of our fellow citizens have a problem in implementing international agreements on the totalisation of internships in the cases of benefits, so if you might have a sentence to tell me what your findings are and whether this is really a problem that our fellow citizens often encounter. Here is so much of us in the hope that some of these remarks or suggestions that are well-intentioned in any case will be considered until the second reading and that today and then we will be as unanimous as on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31673	You, too. Mr. Silvano Hrelja will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31674	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state and assistant, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I've been dealing with this problem for many years, especially since the bankruptcy of a former company that hired people with disabilities. It's so-called. It's a TECOP company in Pula, where we got there in 2003. In years we have chosen to start a new institution for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people from the rest of the bankruptcy mass. So, of these foundations, I deal with sometimes more, sometimes less, and I have to say that from that day I started to deal with and monitor this problem that there is a marked progress in Croatia as regards professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. I don't have a lot of doubts here. I condemn all those years when we haven't spent half the money on professional rehabilitation and employment from what we've collected. There is also no doubt that these three measures contained in the Law on Professional Rehabilitation are equal to the employment of persons with disabilities. Therefore, an employer may choose or employ persons with disabilities or give to one of the institutions involved in this production if we are going to protect clothes or sell services etc. to enter into a contract and fulfil its obligation to do business, i.e. to cooperate with that institution. Or the third variant is legitimately to pay for it in a fund where the secretary of state said about 200 million kuna a year that they are not small funds for these purposes, since we have a very, very much more reserves and God forbid that all these funds are spent at the level of the year and that we are looking for more because it means that we would be very sensitive to the needs of our fellow citizens, persons with disabilities and that we would think a lot about how to make their lives valuable to them. Because I don't know how to describe it to you, but you can't see how important it is to people with disabilities until you're with them in their situation, how important it is to be, work and be equal in the world of work. So, to feel worthy, to have earned their money. It's just that we others can hardly judge until we meet them in their troubles, until we get into their problems that they live in. So in a way, I feel honored to have experienced a part of their problems and how they think and appreciate and what their goals are, what their goals are, and what they care about in life. That's why I think we have to do our best and it's not a question of one government on the left or on the right. It is a matter of all governments that the continuity of investment and the creation of conditions for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people continues, strengthens and improves. So there's no dilemma. The Croatian Peasant Party Club and the Croatian Retirement Party will support the adoption of these amendments to this law, i.e. they will vote for and in the first reading, and some small expectations we have for the second reading. Let's just not say that this law is about recognising the benefits of an internship or an internship with an increased duration for people with disabilities. This has already been settled by law, as has been resolved, and the recognition of insurance standings with an increased duration for those doing heavy physical work and is expected not to be able to handle such difficult physical affairs until the age limit of 65. And as arranged for those exposed to psychophysical efforts, attention concentration efforts, petty detection efforts, train management, for example big cranes, airplanes, etc. So sophisticated devices, means of transport, etc. For them, too, a period of insurance with an increased duration was predicted to be popularly called a well-infected job internship. People with the most difficult forms of disability also have the right, but what is the newspaper of this law is that they are not limited only to having the right if they are full-time employees based on the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act. So this is about expansion and those who work part-time, who work in self-employment. Therefore, the potential circle of insurance users is expanded with increased duration. I think that's just the first step, because I'm telling you that even those who work on the production lane in these institutions for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people will hardly experience and will go into full retirement, that they will hardly welcome early retirement rather than end up in a disability pension. Because with limited abilities, they're exposed to great psychophysical efforts, and I think sooner or later we're going to move forward with the recognition of training with increased duration. And those people with disabilities who are not the most disabled, but we're going to bring that line down. But that's something, it's the time of the future and it'll be certainly justified because time it will show that it will need to be done. So, I'm sure this is about the positive discrimination of the weaker in the world of work that I'm not talking about, the labour market isn't really, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're just people, it's people's fates. Therefore, there is a positive discrimination against those who are weak in the world of work, and this must simply be welcomed. It's in accordance with all the conventions, with all those documents that bind us as a civilised democratic state. Therefore, there is no objection to such a proposal supplementing the law. I'd just be begging, to me looking for disadvantages but not in the sense that I'd be pretending to be smarter than someone else, than to make a better, better law in the finals. That's why I'm looking for flaws. I'm kind of too broad and too weakly specific, so these jobs that are listed in the reasoning of the law, and they are said to be, should be taken into account that they can be taken into account and that these are all examples. But if for another reading you can specify a little more detail, that people who raise their hands here may experience little what it means in case they're employed. So, for example, that they perform crafts, whether traders are individuals, top athletes, when they carry out their own activities of agriculture or forestry or carry out their own professional activities, when they carry out domestic work and secondary work, when members of the administration, religious officials and in other cases independently of the basis of their insurance. And you have given a broad formulation, or broad explanation, perhaps even too wide that will not be applied. So if you can give some more concrete examples I'll be grateful not to tell people, not to tell us to raise your hand, you don't know what you're raising yourself for, so it turns into something else just out of caution. So that's the thing, that's the only observation I'd find here and the only drawback to make it a little bit more specific. And if you have seen the figures that require the application of this law, so the amounts required by application, then you can conclude for yourself, for so long you have all of you in the Assembly that this applies to 30, 50 most people because simply these are in relation to the state budget negligible amounts, and for these people, for these few people who are extremely brave, extremely bold, extremely bold, take responsibility for their working relationship, for their employment, for their existence. It's a big, big step for them, and for the state budget, it's about a little something. So we don't have to talk about some monster right now, we're gonna do this or that. Here, exactly by the basis of this law, is defined by a framework of people that includes. To avoid confusion, I made this well-intentioned observation to specify where it could be and where we aim. Thank you very much. And once again at the end of the HSS and HSU club will support the addition of amendments and additions to the Insurance Statutory Act with increased duration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31675	Thank you. Ms Ljubica Lukacic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31676	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here I am today particularly happy to discuss this law and speak on behalf of the club, I will say about this very important law although, as my colleague Hrelja said, it may not be about a large number of people with disabilities to which it will expand. But that's important, too. Most colleagues in this assembly remember from the last term that we and how we allowed people with disabilities to work and stay in the world of work for as long as possible, which is that we made it possible for them in another system, then in the welfare system to receive a personal disability and when they were employed. So we let them get paid and receive a personal disability to encourage them to work and stay in the world of work for as long as possible, earn their pension and depend not only on social assistance. This law extends as I have told a circle of people with disabilities who will be entitled to an insurance internship with increased duration and that is extremely important for those who will only be employed. I'll say more later on about those others, but people with disabilities who only work, I'd say, as my colleague Hrelja said, they're very brave. It's not easy to do my own job, and I must honestly tell you that there are very few people with disabilities who dare to do such an undertaking at all. Not so long ago in the end of last year when a problem arose that people with disabilities who have opened some crafts or are lawyers and thus still have no possibility of having an insurance hold with an increase in duration. We listed them somewhere and in retirement, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office was somewhere around 37 such people, which you agree you will probably agree with me a very small number. However, the fact that out of the total number of people with disabilities, the number of people with disabilities only increases. People who are secured in another system, who will also have the same right to an insurance internship with an increased duration, are persons who I have to say care about disabled persons and are also persons with disabilities. Therefore, they can be persons with disabilities who help the Croatian and wartime military disabled or parents fosterers, parents carers, or single carers, etc. Many times, the question is why are the only diagnosiss listed in this law, and this makes it clear which persons with disabilities can exercise this right. Until the single body of art within the Office of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities brings me to say the solution to who this person is with disabilities, by then we will have to keep this way. These diagnosiss that are listed are really the hardest I'd say to people with disabilities. If one day we're going to spread or bring down the border, we're going to see that. However, when one day we know who those persons with disabilities are in a shorter description, but that we know exactly who they are that we don't really have to make a diagnosis, then it will make it easier for all of us here, and for those who prepare laws and their changes and supplements, when they know exactly what the law needs to put in place without being diagnosed. Now it's very simple. When an SDP expert mentioned it, I would only briefly refer to it as a problem in determining the status of the insurance company, the insurance company of the disabled person in the event of an increase in duration insurance. It's actually the simplest thing, because you bring in documentation on your diagnosis and if it matches the diagnosis that's stated in the law no one can tell you that you have no right to do that. I have to admit, I've never heard of anyone who's had muscle dystrophy or any other neuromuscular disease or cerebral or child paralysis or moving through wheelchairs or has Down syndrome, etc. I didn't hear he couldn't achieve this right. What we are doing now, so we are changing or supplementing this law, I must say, with so few articles, is one big step forward. This respects all the documents Croatia has signed. Of course, the most important UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and then the National Strategy for Equalising Equality for Persons with Disabilities. And we all like to talk about this phenomenon of equating opportunities of equal opportunities, etc. Here's a chance to really equalize the possibilities. We have contained discrimination here in this way and there will now be no discrimination among the disabled. So here's the secretary of state I can freely say here on behalf of all persons with disabilities that you've done something that will be useful to everyone, something that people with disabilities will welcome with approval, and I expect that in the resolution ministry where meetings have already started, where we're already working to finally create I would say the status of a person with disabilities, that we can finally determine who the person with disabilities is. Because here's what I was talking about. I can't say I'm a person with disabilities either, or I have nothing to prove. The document valid only in the system of work and employment shall not be valid in the system of social care and vice versa. So this way we're going to equalize all persons with disabilities in the entire Republic of Croatia. And when we know who it is, then we'll make it simpler to pass any law that applies to people with disabilities, and I'd say almost anyone can apply. We see that the funds for the implementation of this law are secured in the state budget, and they are not large funds, since it is not a large number of people with disabilities, but as I said, I am happy to hear that it is still increasing people with self-employed disabilities. I'll mention more here at the end very briefly in one sentence that many people mention that 400 million kunas that I will not say taken, but which are aimed at maintaining jobs for people with disabilities and of those 400 million kunas today we have a higher number of people with disabilities, certainly those with disabilities who have remained in their jobs. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31677	Thank you very much. Now Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic will speak in front of the Centre and GLAS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31678	Dear President-in-Office of fellow MPs and MPs. Well, I would refer briefly to something that was said in the opening statement on behalf of the promoter, which is to implement pension reform by amending six laws in the area of pension insurance. So I have to say that there's no M since the pension reform either, just because something in a particular law in this area is changing we can't talk about that being some kind of reform. Reform is something that represents a significant deviation from the existing situation. We can possibly talk about certain improvements, and I admit that the proposal for this law, since it is only a first reading that really represents a good step forward. What would possibly represent reform? Let's start by talking about how we're going to extract from the pension insurance system those pensions that are paid under specific rules that can't be brought into line with the insurance standing payments made by the insurance standings. But that might be another topic. As regards this particular law, of course, the Centre and GLAS Club also supports protecting disabled persons, helping them to become more involved in the labour market, and enabling them to carry out an increase in their life insurance and in these categories that are now covered by the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. But with these changes, the question always arises: Did we take care of everyone, did we cover everything that should be covered? And here I will refer to the exposure of my colleague, Silvan Hrelje, who said that the definition of persons with disabilities who have reduced employment opportunities in the open labour market is too wide. I would say that it may not be clearly defined enough and that in practice this may lead to the disabling of certain people, certain categories of rights that are created by this law. We know that very often in the interpretation of certain provisions the practice of virtues and that in two identical or very similar cases we can have different interpretations and different application and enforcement of regulations from officials who decide on a particular right. That is why it is our job and our responsibility that every legal norm we adopt be sufficiently precise and clear. And why am I stressing this particular part? Therefore, in the debate conducted with the public interest, this stems from the report submitted in accordance with this law, it is apparent that the applicant rejected the Advocate's proposal for persons with disabilities who said it could be deleted. 2nd of the Law, which explicitly prescribed that this long-term internship was granted in the light of the payments made. For example, a self-employed person with disabilities will not be able to achieve such an internship unless she has made specific payments to the pension column herself. Why did the D.A. say that to people with disabilities? So, because this obligation, therefore, is already prescribed by the general regulation of the Pension Insurance Act, so that there is no need for such an obligation to be repeated or doubled in this law. To this, the promoter said he did not accept the Ombudsman's proposal for disabled persons because he wanted to actually further apostrophe of the obligation and duty of self-employed persons, regardless of their disability that they were obliged to pay their own contributions. And I can actually agree with that. It is not for the worse that if two laws need one general and one special one and the same obligation is said twice. But then we need to apply this same principle of legal consistency and legal clarity when we talk about which categories of insurance companies this law applies and to whom it all covers. And I'm saying, that's where I get attached to this too wide. I would dare say that we may not have set a specific category wide enough, so we are saying that this applies to self-employed persons, to individuals who perform crafts, to individual traders, to top athletes, to persons who carry out their own activities in agriculture or forestry, and to persons who carry out their professional activity, to do domestic work, to secondary work, to members of the administration or executive directors of companies, etc. Who isn't here? There are no persons who have an act contract, no persons who are actually part-timers. So even though it is more difficult for people with disabilities to enter the labour market and they are actually affected by the general characteristics of our social and economic system, they also include those problems of overtime actually work and different forms of avoidance of actually working relationships. And I know of quite a number of cases where people with disabilities, sometimes even very frequent disability, have occasional part-time working contracts that, of course, pay contributions to pension and health insurance, and I don't see that such persons are explicitly covered by the application of this law. That would be bad, I find it unfair and unfair. I believe it wasn't the proposal's intention and intensity to leave them out, so here's to the second reading, that's something we could think about. If it is considered that persons who have an act contract, i.e. who have some part-time part-time job, are covered by any of the sentences or provisions of this law by bringing it into line with the given explanation, then I do not think we have simply been precise and clear enough. And I say this more in other things, other details have insisted that it be decided and clearly repeated and emphasized what this law wants to achieve. I think that this same clarity should be implemented throughout the law so that those most vulnerable groups do not happen when they wish to exercise their rights come to some counter and are rejected because of the confusion or incorrect interpretation of this law by the officer in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31679	Thank you, too. Now we move on to individual debates. The first is Mrs. Ivana Posavec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to use an individual discussion for a whole other topic. Here at this speaker in the Croatian Parliament, I will try to speak and convey what weighs one group of workers in the Republic of Croatia and they have addressed all institutions. So this query didn't just get my club or did I just get it on the mail. It was obtained by all representatives, all clubs in the Croatian Parliament, by the government of the Republic of Croatia, the Office of Presidents, the Ministry, etc. In fact, it is the Association of the Local Action Group in Fisheries, and you probably already know what the State Secretary is about. It is one request that the amendments to this law that we are now talking about, the Law on the Insurance Statutory with an increased duration where fishermen have therefore addressed and pointed to some illogicalities in the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law in force requires insurance undertakings to be provided for in Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law, meaning an increase-sustainment rate for fishermen if they are full-time employees or part-time workers who are considered to be full-time employment under the general rules harmonising working relations and collective agreements. That legal definition leaves persons, i.e. owners or craft holders who are not employees in terms of general rules, which is discriminatory if it is taken into account that craft holders are also the only employees within their business or, together with their employees, work in full or part-time. In the second chapter of the Law, Article 4 states that health and job skills are particularly difficult to achieve are harmful jobs where the insurance internship is accounted for with an increased duration of those jobs where there are adverse health effects and the working ability of employees despite the application of general and special safeguards governed by labour protection regulations. Therefore, they are of the opinion that the status on the insurance internship with an increased duration is granted to persons because of the specific circumstances they face during work. For that reason, they believe that this right should also be provided to professional fishermen who are owners of crafts. At present, professional fishermen are carrying craftsmen in an unequal and unfair position compared to all their employees who, by law, have the right to increase internships, and this law is not the case for professional fishermen who carry craftsmen. Therefore, they also reminded of this and pointed out before the adoption, that is, the debate on this law. I am now interested in whether you can answer their question today whether there is a possibility that this irregularity or unfair situation in their favour can be corrected especially because I am aware that in the history of the Republic of Croatia, only employees have never exercised the right to an unfettered job experience. I'm not saying that it shouldn't be like that, you shouldn't rule them out because they are, and discriminate because they're self-employed. I am also aware that this change they point to is not only an amendment to this one law, but in this case, some other laws should, for example, be amended for reasons that they do not even have formal labour contracts. So they don't even have formal hours. I understand that, but I ask you to answer them here in the Croatian Parliament, to answer them in full terms what they can expect and why this situation is like this. Here I used my individual discussion to talk about this out loud. I don't think I've come out of the topic because it's about the amendments to this law, it's about Croatian fishermen who have an extremely important subject, as they will be concerned about the subject that comes after this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31681	Thank you, too. Mr. Hrelja has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31682	Dear fellow Members, I do not intend to talk about what I am about to say, but since you said that you have extended the subject to the recognition of the benefits of the internship, and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have in that part of the problem, then I will say that the employees of the Emergency Medical Service also have the desire and will and seek to sort of fit in with the job with the insurance internship with increased duration. I mean there is, the approach is, it's about teams that are together exposed to both stress and major psychophysical pressures and I feel the same that their request that I haven't seen in writing is justified and should be taken into account, but it's not, it's really not the subject of this, of this law as you said at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31683	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31684	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. I think a colleague of Grba Bujevic spoke here in the replica today on the subject. I think that was the subject of today's Committee on Health and Social Policy, and I think the motionary was very clear on that. I also said on behalf of the club at the beginning that we do not believe that there is a need to expand the meaning of jobs or employment that should be entered into a well-favoured work experience, but we believe that this should be adequately rewarded in cash. Here when we talk about the job of a professional fisherman, then I mention and repeat that it's an art. In 19th of this law he has already defined as a workplace that has conditions for the benefits of a work internship, only here is there an irregularity, perhaps even total injustice that owners mean a twist to it do not have the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31685	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. It's Mr. Davor Dretar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31686	Dear Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. State secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The law on the insurance internship with an increased duration in its first article lists persons exercising compulsory pension rights on the basis of generation solidarity under the provisions of the General Regulation on pension insurance and under the provisions of this law, in point, one insurance undertaking is employed in particularly difficult, and for the health and work capacity of harmful jobs. I fully agree with the promoter of these amendments to the existing Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration. As far as people with disabilities are concerned, I believe that this positive discrimination is something we absolutely need to support. Let me just expand the subject for a moment and remind you that there is another group of people who, especially at the time of the fight against the pandemic, deserve to at least consider their right to an unfettered job internship and hear their voice. Although they constitute the largest share of healthcare workers, nurses and technicians are not listed in the list of jobs that are entitled to an insurance internship with an increase in duration. Let me give you just a few reasons why I should think this through. Work on shifts, night work, high stress exposure, increased risk of burning syndrome, exposure to dangers and efforts, increased incidence of professional illnesses, frequent labour injuries and rare unwanted events represent the everyday lives of nurses, and we can only imagine that for almost a year since they represent the first line of defense and rarely the only comfort and hope of Covid-19 patients not only patients in the so-called. Covid to hospitals as well as to test points, in homes for older and powerless, in children's hospitals, mostly in any place where a sick person needs help smiling a nurse and technicians are given selflessly and uninterruptedly, unfortunately for a salary that is not even close to compensation for their victim. Let me also use parts of the graduate work from 2017 more of Ivana Rajter's nurse who is involved in this graduation work precisely on this topic. Research results have shown that nurses and technicians are significantly more exposed to violence and health threats compared to other health professions. Violence is greater in nurses than in other healthcare professionals, most often comes from patients or their families in the form of threats, insults, complaints, complaints, sometimes also physical attacks, especially in the time of the pandemic we know and the very stressful time itself. Nurses become deficient interest in us, and the trend of going to EU markets is growing. In addition to the apparent lack of nurses and technicians, we are affected by an additional reduction in their numbers, leaving their homeland or even profession. According to estimates, about 8 to 10,000 nurses are missing throughout the system, which has been proven by numerous studies. But in fact, how many studies should be conducted, how many patients themselves should be at risk, how many nurses should be sick, hurt, or burned at their workplace before we do anything. The patient and his health are at the heart of every nurse, and it is time for them to put their problems at the heart of the event to exercise the right to recognise the insurance standings with increased duration. A significant proportion of nurses in Croatian health is strength, a force that can have a huge impact on achieving the objectives outlined. Conscious of the weight of their work and its consequences are surely aware that they deserve greater attention, support, encouragement, and certainly recognition for this same work. Beneficent work experience is probably part of those wishes. Someone in them needs to wake up and move to show everyone that the union of the profession of the sisterhood that acts as goodness and seed can achieve the rights, desires, and requirements derived from this unselfish, ampathetic, and above all human work. I suggest that both us MPs and MPs in the assembly of the Republic of Croatia be part of this force and support nurses and technicians in exercising their right to an unfettered job internship. I know that the initiative comes from the union that we should also follow the rule of law that respected Madam Secretary of State explained it all well, and I believe that we can all go that way together. Since it is the first reading of the law we have enough time to do the second, we may also prepare to amend these draft laws. I'm going to thank you again for your attention and say, nurses and technicians are earning an underprivileged job internship and deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31687	Thank you very much and stay, stay, Mr. Hrelja has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31688	A dear colleague is confident that he will find some work to do. certain, therefore, jobs that deserve an increased period of insurance, but the fact is that we have to build systems, that we have to work by the rules, that health workers have a rather strong and noisy union that is able to launch such initiatives or procedures for assessing their jobs, also have employers either oppose it or can support them since then, from there. [[I don't doubt it.]] Ours is not that we judge it, but when criteria are achieved and when it is decided and the expert public estimates that it is a job for an insurance internship with increased duration and when we are offered laws here that we vote, but it has to be a respectful procedure. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31689	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31690	Thank you very much for the replica of my colleagues, I fully agree with your views, of course the initiative must come from professional associations and must be fully implemented according to its legal course, order and sequence. This is just one personal initiative for now, maybe even before I say one idea. The idea was precisely this situation with the pandemic of the Covid-19 virus, an extremely difficult situation in which nurses and technicians, but of course doctors and doctors and all other people who are part of health teams throughout Croatia who, like the rest of the world, are fighting against the pandemic of the Covida-19 virus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31691	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you. Now he is Mr. Rade Simičević who will have an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31692	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, this Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Statutory Interval Insurance Act, is worth the attention, and I will briefly say what I thought was important, and I believe that in the second reading this bill will make even better and better-quality proposals. Therefore, this law regulates an extended-term insurance scheme, which is based on the intention of protecting workers working in particularly difficult and dangerous jobs, or carrying out occupations that require specific psychophysical abilities of organisms that fall with age of life. The law defines 3 categories which are subject to defined conditions to recognise an increase in the insurance rate and reduces the age limit for retirement. Employees can only exercise this right if they are full-time employees or part-time workers who, according to general rules governing working relationship and collective contract, are considered to be full-time employment. Therefore, the three categories are firstly insurance employees of particularly difficult and health-threatening jobs, insurance companies who, after certain years of life, fall due to the nature and severity of the work of the physiological function of the organism and make it impossible to carry out further successful tasks that they have done up until then. Number 3 insurance people with disabilities, persons suffering from muscle dystrophy, paraplegia, cerebral and child paralysis and related diseases, blind and deaf persons, deaf persons with diseases such as joints and connective tissues and other series of diseases listed by this law. The proposal for a law lays down the workplace and the profession of insurance companies with an increased duration of insurance for persons with disabilities, a reduction of the age limit for the acquisition of old age pension rights in a manner and under the conditions prescribed by this law. The law influences the increase in employment of persons with disabilities as we know that discrimination on the job of persons with disabilities is present which is evident from the Ombudsman’s report on persons with disabilities where these persons employed in certain cases have been exposed to harassment and misunderstanding by the employer. We will receive positive discrimination from persons with disabilities in the exercise of their rights not only when disabled persons are employed and secured on pension insurance but also in other cases, which are when they are trained according to special regulations, when they are secured by the basis of the status of a nurse, wartime disability, parents who perform parental duty in the first year of a child's life, after the termination of a working relationship or professional rehabilitation when they are self-employed, perform craftsmen, traders, individuals, top athletes, the independent activity of agriculture or forestry, domestic employment and a number of other jobs listed in this Act. The Strategy has seen an increase in the number of disabled persons who have been constantly increasing in the last 10 years, and in 2019 2800 people with disabilities were employed. The greater the number of people with disabilities, the more their integration is improved and the quality of life of persons with disabilities rises and hopes that this ministry will continue to apply positive laws and regulations on the insurance internship with increased duration. Here I can only say examples of good practice that my friend Sany 5, 6 years ago wanted to enroll Vladimir Nazor's high school and we managed to install an elevator to the pride of all students and clearly to the happiness of our little student Sany who is already going to study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31693	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Ante Bacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31694	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Just for a little while. We have heard and we know what the law itself is about and about the system of insurance internships with an increase in duration, what we call a colloktifier work internship. We have opened something and related to the very list of interests that fall under this system itself, but most of our discussions here and right here are also why it did not apply to the third category of insurance companies themselves, and these are persons with disabilities and we have debated a lot about their position not only in society, but specifically here on the labour market, and that in this way and through this Law that we have seen here with some proposals in public consultation, we have seen that the Ombudsman himself for people with disabilities has praised the adoption of such a bill because he is in some way positively discriminating persons with disabilities and puts them in a slightly more favourable, more favourable position on the labour market as they normally deserve. And we saw here from the State Secretary's presentation of certain statistics that we are standing in the society itself and that there are some shifts and good ones in the last decade are just about hiring people with disabilities. It's a good piece of information and it's about measures to encourage employment and self-employment that we heard from the secretary of state. And normally this is one of the obligations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since we are also a party to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and this is all for the purpose of their better position in society itself. Why did I report specifically to this Law? It's about a group of our disabled and disabled people, and they're weak-sighted people in society. I'll ask you a few questions here. I don't expect the secretary of state you don't need, I see you've written down by others, you don't have to answer me to save on time, but I'd like there to be a response from the Ministry to those remarks, too, between these two readings. Because not to list all the difficult positions and diseases listed in the Law itself, but also with the blind. I received one remark just about the Association of undersighted persons of Split-Dalmatia County where they had written to the Advocate General in some way and already in those amendments in 2018 they made their proposals why they would not join this Act and use this right. In fact, they were also identified by a 2nd degree disability procedure. Unlike the blind, they are not included as a category in this Law relating to insurance with an increased duration. They do not have the right to a personal disability or other material rights from the social care system, although we know that these impaired persons are yet certain health conditions that have progressed over the years and regardless of the development of medicine and health system, most of such cases and such eye diseases do not go forward and simply lead to major degradation. So their disability is thus growing exactly because of these multiple organic damage itself. So far, it has not been a criterion for identifying this functional incompetence through Grade 3 and Grade 4 functional damage, but has been taken exclusively as a criterion of visual acuity of 10%. I got here and I got the answer from the D.A.'s office for people with disabilities where they wrote to her two years ago about their status. Here is my colleague Ljubica Lukačić, who has responded precisely about this proposal and that the Ombudsman herself should not be taxed and listed certain diseases, but also that the diagnosis of the disease through the process of articulation in a particular case be judged regarding the well-fused work experience. But here, I'm glad that my colleague Lukacic got involved here that I got the answer to. But here, I would ask this way and on behalf of the Association of undersighted Split and Split-Dalmatia County to give one explanation between the two readings by the Ministry why they are not included in this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31695	Replica Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31696	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin. My dear colleague Bacic, I believe that we all welcome in this assembly, in fact, this bill of law in this first reading, and we believe that he will be even better in the second. What I would like to ask you is what you think about the status of mother nurse within the proposal itself, and do you think that the Croatian state as such should raise the level of investment and define the status of those mentioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31697	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31698	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Kujundzic, for this replica. I believe that regarding this law, however, we will reach a consensus and that these small changes that were made in the public consultation itself will be adoption by the ministry. As for the nurse's mother, and most demographic measures, I think that the status and behaviour of this government in the last two calls and this Croatian Assembly, as well as all the measures adopted by all the ministries themselves, when we see the order of the Prime Minister himself that we have been here many times and debated exactly that each ministry has received a warrant concerning demographics and demographic measures, that we have singled out the Central Office for Demography and Youth as one separate unit that will exclusively deal with what Europe is under and Croatia, I think this is a clear message from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As for the nurse's mother, I'm absolutely in. It's a great project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31699	Thank you very much. It's a break first, yeah. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31700	Here's a respected colleague, I'm looking for, in fact, Vice President of the Parliament, I'm looking for a break in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further show about this bill, and here I have to comment on one thing that's fallen for my eyes, sorry, for my ears, and that's that you've boasted about how HDZ did, created the Central Office for Demography, right, and young people, yes. And you did not say that before there was the Ministry of Demography, namely that the HDZ or the government of Andrej Plenkovic brought down the portfolio from the ministry to the central state office. So, all those who do not understand what this is about, I would say, with all due respect to my colleagues, that the government's relationship with demographics is the most important problem of the Croatian state, the Croatian people are just looking at that the ministry has been abolished, or that instead of the ministry, only the central state office has been created. I will repeat, the central state office is important, i.e. by affecting politics in Croatia, 100 times means less influence than the ministry has, so I don't really expect that both young people and demographics will change anything in Croatia because the government's relationship with this issue is visible from the plane.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31701	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Murganic also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31702	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ club about precisely the subject of demographicism and government formation in which the Central State Demography Office has a very significant place. In fact, we have always said that it does not matter what form it is but what content it is and how it will work, what measures and what regulations it is. Criticists like this type, as he had previously been in explaining a break from MPs Hrvoje Zekanovic, always said it was not good that the Ministry of Demography and Social Policy, that demographics would drown there in social policy and that it was the most ideal solution to exist as an independent body and as an independent state office. However, the government's work, both in the past and in this, has been denied by all these critics who claim that nothing is being brought, a series of measures have been adopted, a series of measures aimed at strengthening the family, creating a favourable family environment, coordinating family and personal life, all to encourage youth employment, giving housing loans to young people, building kindergartens, and other numerous measures, with the strengthening of the economic economy that has been significant until this COVID crisis. And all of this has certainly created a positive environment and in the direction of strengthening the general development of our country and, in particular, demographic development, these stories are certainly not founded and these are criticisms for criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31703	Okay, thank you. You've turned the stations into replicas, but the breaks are approved and we'll go right on. Replica, Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31704	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić would point to only one fact that applies not only to this topic, which is different treatment in different environments of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has a national strategy for people with disabilities for many years but does not have all the counties leading to unequal implementation in local environments. Let's say Lika-Senj County didn't bring in such a strategy, followed by cities or municipalities, so we have a situation that the needs and interests of persons with disabilities are not represented because the association is small, they don't have enough employees to deal with it and when they do, it's in their spare time and of course they're not paid for it. It is particularly difficult in rural areas, not all of us are online, we are poorly connected and should all be aimed at informing people more intensively about different rights and benefits that can be used to improve living and working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31705	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31706	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, thank you for the line, just one sentence for you. I agree with you, not everything at the ministry and the government, definitely these measures need to be brought down to a local level because our disabled people live here, I'm going to reach out and I'm going to use the answer to your replica, I'm going to be standing by for a break from my colleague Zekanovic who has so little macholy taken advantage of it and escaped. I agree with a colleague who took a break on behalf of HDZ, the central office, like this in a very easy way, can coordinate with other ministries, push for measures, for demographics, young people, we know that the opposition was very much against when it was in one big system, when demographics may not have been highlighted in other problems. Not to mention 6 billion kunas for youth employment, all indicators, from minimum, average, student captains, are all increased, maternity benefits not to mention, housing lending of 14 thousand young families, tax reform, income cuts for young people to 25 and 30 years, if anyone He mustn't mind, then this is the government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31707	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. At the end of the day, State Secretary Majda Buric will have her final presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31708	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Honorable and respected parliamentary representatives and MPs. First of all, I warmly thank you for the constructive debate and what I am very pleased about is that we have achieved a very high degree of compliance in relation to persons with disabilities and this law on the insurance internship with increased duration. It's a real pleasure to meet you. Once again, what I must especially stress is that persons with disabilities and now already according to the current Insurance Interval Act with an increased duration are included in this law, which is actually a newspaper that, which we are now talking about amending only 4 articles, the change is that people with disabilities will have the possibility of a benefited internship, i.e. an additional internship, and when they are not working on jobs or interests, which are prescribed by the Ben-worker, and, you know, during the debate, there are 52 and 13 jobs. So persons with disabilities after the entry into force of this law supplementing the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration, they will have the possibility of an added internship and when they work, let's say as accountants or lawyers or traders, etc. and when they work in some professional activity or self-employed activity, so that's actually the goal of this, of supplementing these laws. The goal is, in fact, the safety of persons with disabilities, their greater safety and a better position on the labour market. Only 2 answers, or 2 comments. As for professional fishermen, I have to mention that their increase is 12 by 15, they're about 700, and they have an unfettered job experience, which means that within one year they're doing three months of added internship. As for the question asked by the lady, we are our dear fishermen whose letter we received, in time answered, the answer was sent on time and very exhausted, I will be very brief. So, speaking of craftsmen, you're a respected lady. Parliamentarians know that we have to distinguish jobs, i.e. working relationship from the status of craftsmen as regards the benefits of employment, it refers to the workplace, and the essential components of the employment relationship are the obligation of personal performance, i.e. personality, there is subordination, there is negativity, i.e. payability, and there is what is very, very important, continuity and sustainability of doing business. As far as witches are concerned, it's another note to me, and it's something I'm obliged to mention to you, when we talk about difficult diagnosis, about people with disabilities, actually about these diagnosiss, they talk about, analyze them, question the experts of the Institute of Art and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. In any case, I thank everyone once again for the constructive debate, for the high degree of harmony, and I believe that I will see you very soon at the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-03-1.u31709	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote... Goodbye, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
