ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u57790	Now we're going to take a stand. On behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club, the first one will speak on behalf of the MOST Club, a respected representative of Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u57791	Thank the chairman, respected Croatian public, mostly the public of the Long War and the surroundings, therefore, what happens in the Long War... /Invader Željko Reiner: I ask you a little, let's be quiet, who doesn't care about talking can go out, so he will return to participate in the wheel, some colleague Kujundzic can exhibit what he wants to say in peace. Here you go. How quick and concise you are, thank you. So what exactly is happening in the Long War and ultimately which is and whose interest is one form of status quo. For several years now, we have been able to read or follow all of us living downstairs, namely the feroleur factory, whose story begins in 1902 in 1902, experienced its start of decommissioning in 95, and continued until 2003 when it was actually destroyed by the first building, in order to wipe it off the face of the country in 2009. At last, the inhabitants of the Long War, without fear of the black metallurgy, began to live. In fact, they could devote themselves to everything they live on, which is tourism, which until then was decorated by kilometers of sandy beaches of beautiful Duća and unique wooden sailboats of Jesenica. Workers who worked at the Croatian Privatisation Fund received 15 million and 800 thousand kuna from a total of 50 million, how difficult their claims were. From the tenth attempt, the state took this weight off its neck and sold the aforementioned deadline, which was the year 2012, in which a large, huge, luxurious hotel complex, with all the accompanying contents, from which to this day it remained only paper, shrugged content and slightly more than 250 thousand tonnes of hazardous waste in the centre of the Long War, which has actually been around for years by white-world investors, ministers of questionable knowledge and will, and Croatian politicians are playing ping-pong. And the result of all this is, in fact, the inaction and care of our institutions, which allowed the irresponsible investor to prevent the development of the place and endanger the entire area. Devastion of space and failure of deadlines and the obvious disrespect of the Law of the Republic of Croatia is obviously not interesting to anyone in this country. Since 2014, ex-ferolegure factory waste from the Long War has been required to be removed. The Ministry of the Year is silent even though it has full authority to solve this problem. On the side and the danger of destruction and flora and fauna. On the side and what should not stand aside, which is the health of the Long War residents, and not only of them, but of all the inhabitants within a 15km radius, obviously no one in this country is interested. Normally, the state stands by, and the investor whose credibility after a large number of years is more than questionable, taking into account everything that can be read, following which the trail of activity that the investor has is not at all too much to monitor because of dozens of companies that are being opened, so they are being closed, passed on to some other person, and none of them performs regular, normal, business activity. It is clear from publicly available data that the investors mentioned only figure in a number of persons registered in tax havens without any relevant financial data and reports. While there are business reports in Croatian companies tragically bad. In terms of annual incomes and accumulated losses with huge over-indebtedness. According to publicly available data, this is a classic example of the game of insertion of offshore companies as project holder, which have no property but are only registered addresses by tax havens and law offices. They don't have any employees. They don't have any financial resources. It is amazing that in Croatia relevant services have been hypnotically listening to the mantras that these above place without anyone asking themselves a question and checking the financial strength of the same. However, if we and this stated fact, and all that cannot be stated in this short time, if we put all of this aside and if all of this, dear people, were irrelevant to us, as it is irrelevant to the rest of the ministry, it should be very important to us that someone in the Long War just wants to live in his place, breathe in his place, be healthy in his place and grow old in his place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u57792	Thank you, thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Urša Raukar-Gamuli will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u57856	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Thus, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund was established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of financing projects in the field of environmental and energy protection from funds paid by the economy to the Fund. For the second year in a row, however, 2 billion kunas have been allocated to the Fund, while the economy is daily paying heavy taxes in the Fund, and this Fund is also carrying out those who do not make these payments regularly. The result of irresponsible and poor business and general chaos in business and unemployment in the Fund is not to call public calls and tender for a full 6 months. From 20 October 2020 to 28 April 2021 The Fund has not issued any single public call or invitations. For more than 6 months, the Fund has failed to carry out the basic activity for which it was established, which is the publication of public calls and competitions and the financing of the project from the money it collects daily from taxpayers. At the end of May, the Fund's leadership publicly announces how many neutral funds are on the Fund's account and announces that it will continue its annual call schedule only early in the summer. This was to happen at the beginning of the year, and already in the first and second quarter, most of the calls were to be announced in order to spend the Fund's dedicated funds. On today's 22 planned public calls and tenders, only 12 calls were made, and the implementation of energy efficiency projects is only 20%. A long and expensively announced call, a public call for the energy reconstruction of houses experienced a second year in a row of complete fiasco. This year, therefore, on the day of the application, October 14, 2021, the same scenario as the year before, the Fund's site did not work, citizens who spent time and money on the documentation could not log into their user accounts, nor send any complaints. And for the preparation of this failed call, the Fund has re-expended strong taxpayers' money, over one million kunas spent on the IT solution and 2.5 million kuna on the promotional and media campaign. During the entire month of September and October, the Fund's management spent its time and resources on trips across the cities throughout Croatia, which, therefore, promoted this failed call, which is of course all visible on their websites. Since 2014, however, information from the media has been said that since the Fund took over Mr Sinisa Kukic, the funds of taxpayers, expensive and non-functional IT solutions, have never been so headlessly spent, nor have such expensive advertising been recorded, as if it were a commercial society type Coca-Cole, not a public body established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the aim of launching projects in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, then spending the Fund's dedicated resources, in order to encourage units of local self-government and implement national programmes to help the economy. Therefore, I am asking here a question of the responsibility of the Fund's leadership with Mr Sinisha Kukic. Because responsibility should mean taking the consequences, or taking the blame for the bad outcome of an action. And two years in a row, I repeat. Fiasco at the largest call fund and at the same time 2 billion kunas of neutral non-purpose funds, which by the end of the year, will, of course, increase exponentially. Most of all, this is primarily the responsibility of Sinisa Kukic, but of course Minister Ćorić and Prime Minister Plenkovic, who, in Glasgow at COP 26, represents the view that the defence against climate change is one of the main political topics and that we are obliged to ensure for future generations the future of older generations. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, start setting up the situation at the Environmental Protection Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u57937	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the respected representative Urša Raukar-Gamulin will now speak. Here you go. And I'm sorry, I've confused the order, now on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Nevenko Barbaric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u57938	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Today I will say something about Bosnia and Herzegovina, threats, possible solutions. Is it possible to break Bosnia and Herzegovina by seceding Republika Srpska? Is it possible for Bosnia and Herzegovina to eventually become an internal state? What are the prospects for Croats to ensure their third entity in the process of reforming electoral legislation, reform of electoral legislation and the constitution. A real analyst would answer the first, no, no, and no. There are a lot of arguments for these three, I'm going to say one key, it's the international factor that is most responsible for stopping the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for such Bosnia and Herzegovina. Political recommendations, halting reform processes, are generally accused, and with the right, domestic political forces, of asking what the role of the International Community is in post-Datton Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example the OHR, the Office of the High Representative or the Peace Implementation Council. Did something go wrong, misjudge, fall under the influence of lobbying centers? So, for example. The amendments to electoral legislation imposed 20 years ago were aimed at creating a functional Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've been functional for 20 years. Or, for example, putting the individual's problem into focus. So does anyone really think, for example, that the departure of Milorad Dodig from the political scene would change something significant in the politics of the Serb people in Bosnia and Herzegovina? What are the forces within the Bosniak Corps in Bosnia and Herzegovina from intellectuals, NGOs or political actors who at all costs do not want unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina? What changed in the politics of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and after the shift of more than a hundred political officials and the ban on political action of the same or the incursion, the bandit incursion of the Herzegovica Bank and the theft of money on money laundering charges, which have never been proven or tried to prove them. The consequences are known. The key issue is how to address policy recommendations through reform of electoral legislation and the constitution so that all three peoples and all other citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be satisfied. The Croats suggest, the only ones who suggest more models. I'm going to name two models today, one is an indirect selection of members of the Bureau, another direct model. When we talk about an indirect election, so the members of the Bureau would, three electoral units, the Serbian presidency member would be elected in the Republika Srpska Assembly, and two members in the Federation would be elected to the House of Peoples of the Federal Parliament on the same principle as elected by lawmakers to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Bureau members would be elected from the ranks of elected MPs at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that they have their electoral legitimacy. Direct choice can be linked to territorial or non-terroral choice. When we talk about territorial elections, the electoral unit with the Croatian majority therefore makes 15 local communities with a two-thirds Croatian majority and in a mixed, 15 mixed communities would identify in which election unit they wish to vote, with the fact that where the Croats are minority, they could choose to vote for the Croatian electoral unit, the same applies to the Bosniak part. The non-terrorist principle involves electoral units according to the valid 2013 census, the voter's statement, the Law therefore requires the resolution of possible abuses here. The proposed models in each situation therefore respect the rulings of the International and Domestic Courts, ensuring the full equality and legitimacy of representation, we are convinced that there are no harm to the other two constituent nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to the detriment of any citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and yet without the assistance of the Republic of Croatia, without intervention and moderation of the International Community, we will hardly be able to achieve these changes and a solution to the political crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u57995	Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u57996	Thank you. Your Honor. In addition to food sovereignty, the government has also threatened the Croatian state's energy sovereignty. They savaged the rise of gas prices, and the government's decision to limit the price to 11 kuna, again raises the issue of Croatia's largest oil company INE, but also the issue of relations between the two largest shareholders in the company, the Croatian government and the Hungarian MOL. After giving up silently on the purchase of INA shares from Hungary's MOL, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will have to face the consequences of his own policy towards INI and Mol, because the move by limiting the price of petrol to 11 kuna, the price problem only solves temporarily and precisely because Plenkovic has completely left the management policy of the oil and oil products market in Croatia to another country, i.e. Plenkovic. the largest Hungarian oil company to enjoy the protection of the Hungarian state and, of course, works for the Hungarian national interests. Due to the 10m euros in bribes he was due to receive in return to leave the majority management rights to MOL in INI, the Supreme Court has today confirmed the rightful verdict to former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, but what more than the verdict concerns the Croatian public, is the issue of all issues, which is why Prime Minister Plenkovic has no intention of changing the established policy introduced by Ivo Sanader and which led to Croatian citizens paying a liter of gasoline today 11.10 kuna and Hungarians 9.84 kuna. A year and a half after the discovery of the secret export of Croatian oil to Hungary, the government quietly allowed a million tonnes of domestic oil to be exported to Hungary, the prices and conditions of transport to be kept in strict secrecy, and the government did absolutely nothing to enable the oil to be exported, instead of to the MOL refineries, the JANAF pipeline can go towards Rijeka for processing into the only Croatian refinery. The main reason Hungary can still keep the price of gasoline under control is that MOL, as a national oil company, has two modernized refineries in which they can produce most of the derivatives for its market. Also, the Hungarian state directly interferes with the creation of an oil policy that allows the price of their gasoline to be almost 15% cheaper than in Croatia, while at the same time, through control of the Croatian national space, or the Croatian national company INA, they have led to the depletion of one of the remaining Croatian refineries' capacity, while fuel from their refineries is being placed on the Croatian market, while Croatian oil is being controlled by the INA and Croatian Government's support to Hungary. Due to the favoring of INI and the Hungarian MOL, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic gave up a key part of Croatia's energy sovereignty, i.e. The potential for an active impact on the oil and oil products market through domestic raw materials production and the management of the resources of its own oil company and the refinery business, therefore the price of gasoline, as criticised by critics, determines the questionable methods. Due to the high margins of a foreign oil company in Croatia, about 400m euros in profits per year, which means that each Croatian citizen earns an additional 120 euros more than gasoline per year. This represents a huge impact, not only on the pockets of Croatian consumers, but also on the economy as a whole, as this reduces the overall competitiveness of Croatian companies that form the final prices of products according to transport costs. This is the way Croatia has given up much of its energy independence and is handing over Croatian raw materials without the public knowing, under what conditions it seems. Plenkovic only extended the continuation of the service, and now the criminal policies initiated by former prime minister and HDZ chief Ivo Sanader according to Hungary's MOL. Prior to confirming the INA-MOL and Sanader and HDZ, the Supreme Court was convicted of corruption in the Fimi-media affair. Prime Minister Plenkovic did not wish to apologize to the Croatian people on behalf of HDZ, with the excuse that today's HDZ has nothing to do with Sanader, which has made many intelligent people laugh in Croatia, because it is enough to look at which people surround it. The continuation of Sanader's policy was unquestionably taken over by Plenkovic concerning the INE and the Hungarian state, and all to the harm of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u58121	Now, on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative, Anka Mrak-Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u58122	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Corona is not the main subject I want to talk to you about today, but because of the situation we found ourselves in, I simply need to say a few sentences. Today we break all the records in the number of new cases, and our mortality is at record heights every day. On the other hand, what's record low is the number of people vaccinated. I think now is the time for HDZ and the government to stop courting anyone and take some serious steps, to encourage people to be vaccinated. This, my dears, is no longer a joke. By spring, we'll have the same number of dead from Corona, how many died in the Homeland War. Our mortality is among the highest in the world. When are we going to wake up? The prime minister's boasting of MPs around the parliament must stop for the same second and instead take his job and catch the reins of this problem. We need to step up the campaign intensively, but obviously that's not enough. Now is the time to tell people, you can't go to work, you can't go to stores, you can't go to cafes and restaurants, you can't go anywhere unless you're vaccinated. I understand that people are exposed to false and false information and theories, but Corona is dying. And as ignorance is no excuse when people die, for example. In traffic, it's not even an apology here that can apply for seconds anymore. We're before the hospital closes, for everyone who needs treatment for the extreme expansion of Corona. People wake up and take your work seriously, because this has crossed all the lines. A topic that I originally wanted to talk about both the environment and the crisis in which the whole world is located. In this regard, I will refer to the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a resolution on the climate and environmental crisis. Such a resolution has been brought by the European Parliament a long time ago and I think it is high time for the Croatian Parliament to do so. Of course, this isn't the first time I've proposed that resolution. It was the first time I sent her away in 2020 in a past term. The government has, strangely strangely, rejected her, but I think it is generally known that I am very persistent, I am not giving up so easily, and so will my Environmental Resolution once again come to Parliament's agenda. I ask the Parliament to call the government for immediate and appropriate action. This means, first of all, that all the necessary strategies and action plans are adopted that we have a basis for work at all. The most important thing after that is to move urgently into the transition of the Croatian economy to climate neutral. This, of course, means that all those opportunities for funding and assistance are exploited in this process, which is primarily made possible by the European Union. It is also an important job to promote awareness among people and education on climate change. This means active and intensive cooperation with citizens, civil society organisations, media and the economy. Education must also be formally included in the girlculum, and I will also draw a special conclusion about this in addition to Resolution. Our prime minister likes to take pictures and film, so he did it intensively in part 26. UN climate change conferences, held in Glasgow these days. He made a lot of promises there. For example, Croatia will plant a million trees a year by 2030, excellent. But we know what happens to the gold promises our prime minister makes with the atmosphere of European and world forums at the highest level. When he gets home, it leaves very little or nothing. You could start with, for example, stopping the uncontrollable destruction of the forests we have, the ones we don't just need to plant. In view of the pace that comes with the creation and adoption of the Action Plan for the implementation of the Low Carbon Development Strategy, which we do not have for a year and a half after the adoption of the Strategy, unfortunately cannot be optimistic. Maybe I'm wrong, I hope I'm wrong. A lot of smiles and sweet words came from Glasgow. Let's see what happens when the resolution on the climate and environmental crisis comes to his table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u58171	And now he will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, respected representative Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u58172	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here are the last few days of the embarrassing column of an even more embarrassing title: "J... you Vukovar" has greatly upset the general Croatian public. The author whose name is not worthy of mentioning this column showed that a tiny soul who walks on the earth’s abyss is clearly looking for some personal peace that is hard to find. With his column he spit primarily in his face trying to offend the victim of Vukovar, the victim of Croatian defenders, and all the inhabitants of the City of Vukovar. Today I will not speak here as a politician, but as a resident of the City of Vukovar who returned to Vukovar in 99 years where I graduated from high school. After that, four years each day traveled to the University of Osijek. He got a job in the city of Vukovar. He married a Vukovar. I have three children who are going to elementary school today or kindergarten in the city of Vukovar and I believe that he primarily insulted all of us Vukovares. The town of Vukovar is everything, but not the city of the dead. The city of Vukovar is today a city that has 23 to 24 thousand inhabitants. There's no 45 he had before the war, because 2,000 717 people were killed in 91 years, because more than 10 thousand people didn't return to Vukovar after seven years of occupation. But the town of Vukovar is today a city that has more than a thousand employees than seven years ago. The town of Vukovar is today a city that has more than 200 crafts than seven years ago. The city of Vukovar is today a city that places 3 to 5 million kunas of incentive measures for craftsmen and entrepreneurs on an annual basis. The town of Vukovar is today a town with a thousand and 800 children in the primary schools of the City of Vukovar, which has more than 815 children in kindergartens of the City of Vukovar. The town of Vukovar is today a city that has more than 54 children's playgrounds newly renovated at different locations. The town of Vukovar is the only city in the Republic of Croatia that allocates millions for co-financing of housing costs for families with three and more children and thus wants to improve the demographics of the town of Vukovar alone. The city of Vukovar is today a city of sport, culture, youth, a city that lives like all other cities in the Republic of Croatia, but a city that is proud of its defenders, of its troubled past that will never give up. The damage to the town of Vukovar is caused by very small souls that occur once a year or once in a few years and are smart and give their opinion on the city of Vukovar and its inhabitants. The town of Vukovar is a city like all other cities, but the pride of the Republic of Croatia is a hero but lives like all other cities in the Republic of Croatia and we don't need many concubines that will appear once a year or once in a few years to come to the City of Vukovar and talk about how it is for us in the City of Vukovar because we are the citizens of the city of Vukovar that we know best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u58243	The next Club of Representatives will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front, and will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u58244	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, it is exactly 30 days as I have referred the parliamentary question to Minister Tomislav Ćorić and Minister Darko Horvat about the events of the phosphogypse dump in Kutina. In 40 years, the deposit of phosphogyps by-product of Petrochemy has accumulated about 9 million tons of phosphogypse and about 2 million cubic metres of acidic water. During the privatisation of Petrochemia, she was separated from Petrochemia, which was to be removed from her current business, but the privatisation as she has always been in our special way has become a state-owned company that was recently sold to the private company Flantron from Kutina for 112 thousand kuna, provided that phosphogyps are recovered at the dump. The company Flantron has several employees, it is a smaller company and there is absolutely no means with which to take care of this huge phosphorus cast at all. What's currently going on at the phosphogypse dump is both acid and genocide and I don't know what to call it. At present, saturable mud is stored on the phosphogypse dump. One day, only 50 large trucks reportedly were delivered from Vukovar. I don't know where they all come from. So the Flantron program says it's going to resuscitate the phosphogypse dump and build a solar power plant at 160 acres to cover the surface of the phosphogypse dump. However, it seems that it is better to store what must not be stored anywhere in Croatia, which is a saturative mud filled with heavy metals, a variety of toxins that, when you are there for 10 minutes, you are sick for 2 hours behind it in your stomach. I want to know who's behind this obviously unauthorized deposit of saturition mud, who's hiding and covering up this crime that's going on at the phosphogypse dump. By the way deposit phosphogypse is located in the nature park Lonjsko polje in the flood area. So with all the phosphogips that's been deposited there and the acid water still comes the saturition mud. I ask again who turns Sisak-Moslavina County into a dump? The largest burner of plastics and saturition mud is planned in Kutina. A burner that's planned in Sisak. The Shop Mountain plans to dump nuclear waste and several other burn plants in the Sisak-Moslavina County area. I also call on the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, if he does not know, and what I cannot claim to know is that he is investigating this case of depositing saturition mud in the area of phosphogypse dump. The phosphogypse deposit was state property. The state sold it, and I think it has the right and obligation to ask what's going on there and that it has the right and obligation to us MPs who ask for an answer and show the licenses if these companies have it. I recently managed to get to the phosphogypse dump with Croatian Radio Television. The images were taken of just sneezing from a truck driven by saturition mud. It's taken the entire surface and the many tons that have been brought so far. And I'm asking you if these 160 acres of saturable mud will be stored in the area of nature park Lonjsko polje flood area, the former largest nest of freshwater fish in this part of Europe, what will we get besides ecocids and genocide? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u58245	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u58307	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic took hold, the epidemic got out of control. In the past 24 hours, record 6 310 newly infected, the youngest and the middle age, hospitalized 1,680 patients, 219 on the respirator, 32 died. In total, 9 364 people have died so far. Astounding figures. Most of the seriously ill hospitalized, like the dead, are unvaccinated. There are more and more younger people in hospitals and respirators. We're still as a nation under-vaccinated. It is good that with those arriving at the third dose, there are more and more citizens coming for the first dose, but we are very late. In addition to older citizens, who have been split even 70%, it is important that our younger, working and socially active vaccinate in as large a number as possible, not only to protect ourselves, but to protect our loved ones. No one has said that the vaccinated cannot carry the disease or get infected, but we are protected from severe illnesses. Vaccination is the only tool to stop the pandemic. Hospital facilities are filling up rapidly. A clinic for pulmonary diseases, infectious diseases, KB Dubrava, practically there are no free beds. There will be an urgent need to increase the capacity for Covid positive patients who need hospital treatment, not only in Zagreb, but throughout Croatia. The hearings of only dramatic exits from Split, Čakovec, hospital departments from regular drive are turning into Covid departments again, more and more busy respirators. Right now, it's not that much of a problem with the number of respirators available, it's a question of who's going to work with these intense patients. We don't have enough anesthesiologists, pulmologists, infectologists, intenses. Are the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister of Health and the entire Croatian public aware that after over a year of the pandemic, the health system did not completely fall apart just thanks to dedicated health workers. The medics are on the verge. Did you know that Covid patients are taken care of by employees of various health specialities, cardiologists, endocrinologists, psychiatrists, nurses of different profiles. How much work is done by primary healthcare workers. We were all forced to educate ourselves at first. You're wondering why the cold drive is being reduced? Why cancel exams and surgery not Covid patients? There's your answer. And what does the Government and the Resort Minister do? Minister Beroš made a decision last Friday that family doctors are mandatory within 15 days to invite all patients over 65 who are not vaccinated to come in, if they fail to make the phone, they will have 30 days to visit patients in their homes with a patronage nurse and if patients agree to do so, they will be vaccinated. And you know what a family doctor does to him? They're ordering Minister Berosch to first, not know what kind of drive they're doing, what kind of work they're doing, that, apart from vaccination against Covid's vaccinations now and against flu, against pneumocococcals, every day they have a bunch of phone calls, e-mails, physical examinations of patients and emergency and not urgent. They don't have an administrator, they don't have an extra nurse, they don't have two phone lines. Patients who wanted to vaccinate were vaccinated, many others who refused are persistent in that. Such a late ministerial decision will lead to further reductions in services and reviews for all patients in need of health care not related to Covid. All of us doctors daily ask our patients in our offices if they have been vaccinated, why they have not been vaccinated, we motivate them for vaccination, but those who do not wish to be vaccinated for unknown reasons do not, unfortunately, contribute to stopping the epidemic. We have an increase in uncontrolled chronic diseases, especially haematological, cancer, diabetes complications. Regular capacities, resources, health care personnel have been reduced due to pandemics. The headquarters and the government have made a number of contradictory decisions, transferring responsibility to healthcare professionals and citizens. The vaccination campaign is not well done, but we have talked about it several times, making a number of suggestions, however, we are not listening. It is not scientific advice or part of which is intended not to confuse citizens but to give real scientific and verifiable information. Prime Minister Plenkovic has already been fenced several times by Professor Lauce's statements, but he continues to hold him in the council, although the professor in question is as much an expert in his field of his statements confuses the citizens and does not motivate them to vaccinate. In fact, he uses Plenkovic for a balance between epidemiological measures, economic policy, health situation and political decisions. The government must make it clear how much of the vaccinated must be in order to eliminate and mitigate measures and not give up to the people. There is insufficient control of the implementation of existing epidemiological measures, and then we close schools first. People are being vaccinated. Trust doctors, scientists and experts when the government and headquarters have failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u58370	That's great, that's fine. Just a second. Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Zeljko Pavić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u58371	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected viewers who follow us through television, respected residents of our islands and residents of our rural areas. We are behind the debate on the budget rebalancing in which an additional 9 billion kuna for the health system is given, and before us is the adoption of the budget for next year, and we at the Social Democrats Club think it is extremely important to draw attention at this point and to appeal to the Government to finally provide for emergency helicopter medical services in the budget plan. I would like to remind you that the competitions that were scheduled in the spring of this year are not scheduled, that nothing happened on this issue and that the formation of a helicopter service stands where it was in 2015. I don't need to know again what time to repeat that the objective of forming an emergency helicopter medical service is to save people's lives, because the golden clock in which the endangered person is to be taken care of in the hospital actually means survival. So the main and primary goal of establishing that service is to save lives in the golden hour. We urgently need this service because it provides people in isolated places such as islands, worse, on highways with the possibility of coming on time to an institution that will save lives. I don't think there's any need to talk about the history of the use of helicopter service in wars from Vietnam and beyond, but I must say that this service has been formed and operated in most European countries and that every year in Croatia we have a large number of tourists from countries that have established such services in their countries as. Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Italy, Germany, Austria, France, not to mention America and Americans. The efficiency of implementation and advantage has shown in Croatia a pilot project that was fully funded by the World Bank in September 2015 during the mandate of the SDP government and the SDP Minister of Health Sinishi Varge. The four-month pilot project, the emergency medical service, had one helicopter located on the island of Brac, and one on the island of Krk, and only in the first two days of that pilot project were 4 emergency interventions that saved the lives of our fellow citizens. I believe that professional circles, including all of us, would have to accept what the pilot project showed, which is that Morh's helicopters are too expensive for emergency helicopter medical services, that MORH, with MORH's helicopters, will not be able to help in the golden hour, and that our fellow citizens and tourists need to cover all of Croatia. Unfortunately, HDZ Minister Nakic ignored the results of the pilot project, and returned everything to its previous state, i.e. in case of emergency use of MORH helicopters. However, I note that it would be clear to all, that in this way they do not use dedicated medical helicopters equipped with the most tempered equipment and that there is a lack of the presence of an educated helicopter medical team, which actually means that the MORH helicopters are used only for the transport of unhappy and not for the provision of emergency assistance. The numbers associated with the accidents are inexorable. In Croatia, we have about 23,000 deaths per year from heart attacks and strokes. We've got about 300 people killed in traffic, but last year they were slightly less due to reduced mobility, we've got about 3,000 seriously injured in traffic. Let's not forget this year's accidents in Losinj, Dubrovnik. A major car accident on the Zagreb-Lipovac highway. If we had an emergency helicopter medical service, maybe we could help someone, maybe one of them could stay alive. This service would help us to reduce mortality and disability, and be a faster recovery of patients and faster return to work. I'm trying to put this whole thing first because we have a budget ahead of us and I'm appealing to the government to finally get that service in the first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70092	Good morning. We continue with the work, as announced today's point is: - The final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on catering activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 197 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this and the legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Tonchi Glava.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70093	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives, MPs, colleagues, we are here today before you with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Food Activity with the final bill of law that is here before you. It is currently in force in the Republic of Croatia in 2015 with the latest amendments and additions entered into force on 8 April 2020, which regulates the way and conditions under which legal and natural persons can carry out the catering activity. The proposed amendments to the law in question propose the extension of the period of validity of provisional solutions to carry out catering activities as well as the harmonisation of certain provisions with Directive 2006 123 EC on services on the internal market as well as compliance with the State Administration System Act of 2019. At this moment in the Republic of Croatia, the temporary solutions issued shall cease to be valid in accordance with the current provisions of the Household Activity Act at the end of this year. It is prescribed that the same temporary solutions are worth issuing a legalisation solution by 31.12.2021 at the latest. This possibility of issuing temporary solutions is enabled by the 2015 Household Activity Act and, given the duration of administrative procedures, the law of illegally built buildings has been extended on two occasions by amendments to the laws of 2016 to 31.12.2020, as well as amendments to the 2020 law until 31.12.2021. Therefore, the proposal to amend that law proposes to extend the period of validity of temporary solutions issued to the hosts, owners and family holdings which have not yet come up with solutions on the state of play, but have submitted, within the deadline, a request for the launch of the legal process of illegally built construction and the period of validity of temporary solutions to the rentalrs and family holdings for outstanding issues of ownership and usability of the facility until 31 December 2024. In order to speed up the legalisation process, we propose to include in the law a provision whereby temporary solutions would be submitted to the competent administrative authority for issuing a solution on the state of play which will then be a mandatory example of an executive solution which would decide on the application for legalisation and deliver to the competent administrative body in the field of catering. It is noted that in the event that the deadline does not extend by the end of the year, at the beginning of the year, temporary solutions would cease to apply, which could ultimately lead to the termination of the hospitality activity of a large number of entities, where the vast majority of these solutions relate to private owners. For this reason, it also proposes to refer the law to the emergency process in order to bring it into force before 31.12.2021. Other amendments to the law relate to the harmonisation of the law with the services directives on the internal market and the State Administration System Act. As regards the current provisions of Article 30(6) of the Law, in 2019, the European Commission received a warning of the non-compliance of the article in force with EU law or the Services Directive 2006/123 after the existing control mechanisms were observed to constitute a territorial restriction. The current article. 30th century. 6th century. The Household Activity Act is an exception according to which the tenant who provides the guests accommodation services may provide half board or full board services to guests other than breakfast, if there is no facility registered for the provision of catering services and serving meals within 15km of the road line. We draw attention to how since the entry into force... the provisions of the law so that was November 17, 2018. To date, no such solution has been issued, and the fact that that provision constitutes a territorial restriction in accordance with EU directives is proposed to delete it. In this regard, we note that private owners are additionally allowed to raise the quality of services, provide breakfast services to guests while for the OPGs it is specified that they must provide breakfast, half board and pension services at the request of guests and prepare products from mainly their own production. We believe that the above option is open to create additional value of the tourist product, and this is to provide accommodation services in the form of - and breakfast - as in providing accommodation gastronomic experience to the OPGs. Finally, we propose that the amended provisions of the law in relation to provisions concerning compliance with the provisions of the State Administration System Act, which is for the adoption of regulations governing part of the administrative area in the part of the second body of the State administration, be adopted with the prior consent of the head of that body, and not with the previous opinion as currently prescribed. Therefore, we propose the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Attending Activity, with the Final Proposal for the Law in the Emergency Procedure for the reasons set out above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70094	We have plenty of replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70095	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Therefore, the common fact is that Croatian caterers actually pay the biggest taxes in Europe, even 90% of the wine and beer produced in Croatia if added 3% of the consumption tax we get to the total amount of 28% of the levy as such. Almost 70% of the hospitality takes place in the top 80 days of one year. For what reason did these changes not strike the course of the entire year's hospitality since hospitality is one lung filling of the state budget and thus existing all of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70096	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70097	Dear Representative Kujundzic. So this law defines the conditions that service providers, catering services or accommodation services must meet, for one good part, do not define this part of which you have now asked. Therefore, as regards the provision of catering services, it can be done in the form or legal person of a company or crafts company or OPG or private tenant who are different categories and, of course, they all have the possibility of working all year round. Therefore, whether they will work all year round or not is solely a matter of their market positioning or their ability, wishes or not throughout the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70098	The next replica of the esteemed Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70099	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So from the material you've attached to us we have information that we have 15,900 temporary solutions, right, these are lawless builders who are trying to legalize their facilities. When we know that it goes through a number of years to legalized power, when we know that such hosts invest in their properties, I'm interested in thinking we're coming to a paradox, I'm interested in a situation where such hosts are legally robbed of legalization. What is the process of the ministry, did you face it and what do you think about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70100	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70101	Your Honor, Mr. Nemett. Yes, you're right about around 15,900 temporary solutions currently issued in the entire Republic of Croatia, and they come from practically three categories. So one category and objects that are related to legalisation, another category of objects that for some reason do not have the use of the facility or the use of the permit and the third category is the one that is related to co-ownership, so this is not just a subject that is related to legalisation. And the procedure is simple, so if you submitted a legalisation application within the time limit prescribed by the law, then you have a temporary solution to the settlement of that case, and it can be solved in two ways so that the legalisation is carried out and that you will then go from this temporary solution to a final solution, so to minimum technical conditions or categorization, or if something in this whole process was wrong, that legalisation will not be resolved and then you will not have the right to continue to carry out the activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70102	The next replica is the respected representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70103	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So since the issue of illegal objects has not been resolved in eight years, do you really think that in three years it will succeed in legalising 15,900 requests for which temporary solutions have been issued? Since we've had the first deadline since 2016-2021, so this is already the second change, do you think we're going to meet in 2024 with a third change or another extension?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70104	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70105	Dear Representative Nikolic, I thank you for asking. So, as you know, this is a process that has been going on for some time now, the current resolution between other legalization issues is in the jurisdiction of units of local and regional self-government, so county, municipalities and cities and these objects are in their resolution. What will be the deadline and until it will be fulfilled and realised I cannot answer that question at this time, but in any case our obligation and of the most important interest of the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of the highest interest of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports is that the catering facilities that have temporary work permits, to do business, to employ, to create added value, to contribute to Croatia's GDP and to have facilities that we provide services to tourists. And, of course, from the Ministry of Tourism and Sports domain, we'll do everything we can to ensure that they can continue their activities until the moment these items are resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70106	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70107	Dear Secretary of State, here you represent something that you have virtually no insight whatsoever as far as I understand it or no authority to resolve it. You came before the Croatian Parliament let's say try to solve after 8 years something that the Ministry of Spatial Planning has not solved if we are talking about 15,000 requests, these 15,000 requests should be resolved logically in a year and without any great effort. What I am interested in from these 15,000 requests submitted or on your part of the provisional solutions issued, how many of these requests have only been submitted, how many have been completed to the level that they can be resolved and why you and the Ministry of Spatial Planning do not communicate on this problem and find no solution. I think this is about in the great works of these people on existential issues. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70108	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70109	Dear Representative Brumnic, that you are right is a very important issue for all service providers who have, and their families, who have these temporary solutions, and that is why the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, which is responsible for the body which issues and under whose legislation are issued solutions for providing services in the catering or provision of accommodation services, is doing everything in its domain and is able to enable these people to continue to carry out tourism activities to address these problems. So, as far as the case is concerned, they are within the area of municipalities, cities, counties, and the process is currently taking place. So, the temporary solutions are that, which allow the caterers to continue working, and when their subject is solved, and again I will repeat one of these three categories that I mentioned earlier, then their solution goes either to permanent or eventually to be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70110	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70111	The Honorable Chairman was injured in Article 238, the State Secretary insults anyone who sits in this assembly and makes laws stating things that are false, transferring responsibility to local self-government units. This is the law passed in the Croatian Parliament, the Ministry of Spatial Planning was responsible for its implementation. I can now describe to you exactly what the agencies were and how they were created during the time, how the requests were withdrawn from the City of Zagreb to the ministry. You're telling an absolute lie and you're transferring... [[Intruder: Time.]] Don't be mad. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70112	Time. You used a breach of the Rules of Procedure for your position, opinion, replica... You're getting a warning. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] The next replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70113	I thank the chairman. Under the applicable provisions of the Household Activity Act, the Minister of State has been ordered to provide evidence that the host, the owner or owner of the OPG must be legally involved with the request for approval of the activity. I am interested in this figure that we have heard from you of over 15,000 owners who have temporary solutions, which are worth until the end of this year in a situation if it does not extend for the next 3 years, which means from the point of view of the tourist offer, because they should stop working on 31.12., so if you can briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70114	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70115	Thank you, Honorable Representative Begonja, so you're right if we don't amend this law with, on the trail of a proposal that is here today before you, that is, that is, all those natural and legal persons who have so-called. temporary solutions from 31.12. this year, so with the expiry of that deadline they could no longer carry out tourism activities and here I am talking again about this number that we have, which we have been communicating all along. Therefore, of the absolute greatest and most vital interest and of the Croatian tourism sector and the economy of course of all these service providers is that they continue to carry out their activities without being able to carry out their activities and therefore resolve their permanent status in a process that is not on them but a procedure which is prescribed and which is currently in the domain of the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70116	The next replica is the respected representative Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70117	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I agree with you, and I also believe that these changes will create one additional value for family farms, hosts, hotels, etc. Considering that some way of removing unfair competition. I wonder if you have the information, I did not understand from your presentation how many tenants actually provided half board or full board services under certain conditions of Article 30(6) of this Act. And once again I ask for the public to repeat whether family farms remain without the provision of food to their guests since this provision is deleted or will in fact be strengthened and in some ways tourism will be channelled exactly according to the OPG and, ultimately, it is laid down by this law and Article 39.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70118	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70119	Dear Representative Blažević, therefore, once again, we have made very clear with the amendments to this law which were made in 2018 a differentiation so with the service of private tenants who want to provide a food service we went with the model so-called. in the world of trends and very famous and recognized, so.../incomprehensible/... with the possibility of serving breakfast for private owners who have rooms, apartments and so on. However, for OPGs engaged in the provision of accommodation or service services among other things, catering services are even prescribed by law if I cheat on Article 39 of the obligation to serve, at the request of the guest, food, food and drink, etc. And it's from a lot of its own production. So in this way we very clearly wanted to differentiate and give one big one to tell the OPG's incentives to be those who generate the ultimate service of serving food and drink, and private renters to go to the service bed and breakfast.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70120	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70121	Dear Secretary of State, we are all under the impression that this tourist season has been extremely successful despite the pandemic of the Crown of the Virus. Please make sure you have the official results of this tourist season, what are the effects and what is being done to prepare the next tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70122	Dear Representative Brkan, that you are right to me, the Republic of Croatia is and we are looking at the context of all our competitions on, on the European market and on the Mediterranean, there was a noticeable tourist outcome and significantly better than our competition. We are about now somewhere on numbers slightly more than 75% of the tourist traffic from the record 2019, which is indeed a remarkable result. And as for preparations for the next tourist year, they have already started significantly, advanced, but I must warn one, one of these things that concerns me at this point, given that the preparation of the tourist year, organised tourism, tour operators, complex tourist.../incomprehensible/... it agrees now, it agrees during the winter, and not next summer. We are currently on the map of ECDC red and we need to do everything we can as citizens and which can affect that map, the picture will be fixed because it will be very important for us during our tourist season or during the sale of arrangements, presentations on the market and promotion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70123	Next replica, the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70124	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, everything points out that this is about fire-extinguishing and prolonged as you yourself say temporary measures for the next three years. However, I am now interested in this of these 15,900 guests who have these temporary solutions, which, for example, does not have adequate building permits and which is why, for example, in such temporary solutions, people who usurp, and I believe that they have little extension of that possibility, and a large, large number of others remain permanently in this temporary pressure that they cannot possibly get the right solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70125	Dear Representative Matula, I hope we agree that we should do everything in any case, that all these providers of tourist and catering services if they meet all the legal services, of course, continue to deal with this business and this activity. So, the fact that they're in so-called. The category of temporary solutions therefore, in most cases, they have not yet come in line to resolve their cases. So, these items when they get in or out of the procedure. And yet again I say it's not just a matter of legalization here, it's also about the use of the facility and it's about co-ownership. So the 3 categories that are covered here and they are obliged to solve these objects. And we are simply giving these amendments enough time, enough time to complete this procedure in the next few years so that they will not come into a situation that, possibly, some of these service providers who are precisely, which are only because of the procedure that they have not come in order to continue to provide services, and not that they happen to be accidentally disabled in the provision of services.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70126	The next replica is a respected representative of Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70127	Thank you very much. In order to identify the destination and positioning as some destinations within specific forms of tourism, it is definitely good that you abolish Article 3, so you definitely encourage excellence between the subjects but you have a key problem that will not be defined either this law is actually different from the interpretation of the State Inspectorate, whether the OPGs whose appologists I apply are actually the Law on the provision of catering services or the Regulation on the provision of services in the family rural household, and there is actually a very large conflict. So, one is assessed by one act, one is evaluated by another. So that we should, through our further work, actually influence the standardisation of simple conduct on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70128	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70129	Dear Representative Hajdash Doncic, thank you for that comment. So, we have this law, and with this law, we have all the regulations that belong to us, so our intensity is absolutely that we clearly differentiate the tourist product and the OPGs which we consider to be one of our most potential competitors with the advantage that gives additional value to Croatian tourism, that they are the bearers and offer to serve food, food and drink, etc. But further, as you know about this law, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which was adopted in the seventh month of this year, involves part of tourism, so where the record funding of 2.2 billion kuna is secured, so 3 investments. They mean implementation of the reform. Among other things, in this package that we have already chosen and signed ourselves as an obligation, there will be redefining of both this law and all the relevant regulations, simplifying procedures and granting quality or advantage to certain categories and simplifying OPG operations and all service providers and this is something that will also be on the agenda because we have already taken the obligation. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70130	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70131	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. The Honorable Secretary of State's information that you provided is about 15,900 temporary solutions. That's the information you have in your ministry. Temporary solutions have been issued to those who have unresolved property-legislative relations, temporary solutions have been issued to those who do not have a valid permit under the Construction Act and temporary solutions have been issued to those who have applied for legalisation submitted by 30 June 2013 for the second time by 30 June 2018, respectively. Of these 15,900, do you have an analysis of how many of these apply to unsolved property years or can this last for the next 20 years unsettled property legal relations? How many of them are there that have not obtained a valid permit, and how many of them are the subject of legalization? So it would be good if at least quite a bit of, you don't have to tell me, but about a percentage of how many of those three groups are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70132	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70133	Dear MPs Mrak Taritaš, therefore, as I explained earlier, all these items that are in the process of realization are in, at the level of the county, municipalities and cities and these objects are being resolved. We don't have the information on how many are defined, which number is in a particular category that is located, but in any case what is, I hope you'll agree with me what we should have done is leave enough time, especially if we're talking about this part that's related to solving property relations is that we know that this is something that unfortunately goes slower with us than we would all want together. So, that's why our obligation is just to provide enough time for these items to be resolved and hopefully we all hope together that this will be the last deadline that we have to move and change on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70134	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70135	Thank you very much. Vice President, Secretary of State. Now the point is two things, one is "legalization" and all that prolongs this possibility of what happened for years renting black and still renting on black and that, in particular, this is not going to happen then it would just be rented on black. The second is the return to what was the original proposal that Brad and breakfast had, but then the amendment somehow introduced it into the law, and then we warned that it would not go through the directives and that's exactly what we have to do now, return what was proposed in the law. And as for this part of legalization, I think we'll go wide today to talk about legalization which is not the problem of the Ministry of Tourism or the Ministry of Civil Engineering on the other hand because it's a matter of local, let's call self-government who's in charge of issuing such documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70136	Dear Representative Cappelli, yes, that's right, we are with amendments and additions to this 2018 Act. We came here before HS precisely with a proposal in which we differentiated the provision of food services between private owners and OPGs and then we changed the law in such a way that private providers of private accommodation services can serve only breakfast, and of course OPGs eat or half board and full pension if they wish. Exactly the result of the amendment of one in HS that we accepted was to make an exception for, say, the tenants who are 15 kilometers away have no catering facility that they can provide that service and then we accepted it, although we knew at that point that we would potentially have a problem interpreting the directive. However, here is the best confirmation that we have no problem here since 17 November 2018. To date, in accordance with that provision, no single request has been requested, so there is absolutely no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70137	The next replica is a respected representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70138	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I asked you this yesterday on the board, but I think it's important to hear and here, is this enabling additional services to private owners also impose additional obligations on them in terms of stricter working conditions or increased duties, so will these amendments of the law entail changes in the minimum technical conditions and will affect the payments that the tenants have towards TZs at the moment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70139	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70140	Dear Representative Glamuzina, thank you for asking. So, as we answered yesterday, no, here in this part of the series we don't even get in touch with these changes, so we only talk about the fact that service providers who are connected and who have temporary solutions have the possibility to continue to carry out the tourist service of catering or accommodation until the deadline until their subject is resolved. And there are no changes in that part of here, nor should there be any changes to the regulations relating to the different categories of service providers. But as I said yesterday on the board and here is a very short one, so through the NPOO process and through further and further reforms of the tourism system that we are planning and this law and rules and all together will come for a more concrete, significant change, and all with the aim of raising the competitiveness of Croatian tourism and facilitating business operators in tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70141	The next replica, the esteemed Vice President Miroslav Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70142	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I admire every man who deals with entrepreneurship in Croatia. Entrepreneurs need security, legal demands equality, and it seems to me that your categorization and implementation of minimum technical conditions is something that is insurmountable to many entrepreneurs who are in the intelligence of your ministry. It also seems to me that you've come to tell us two things, the first thing is that a massive state administration can't solve what entrepreneurs are looking for, so you're looking for another delay, and then you're going to push it under the carpet, and then some next government will have to decide, finally, and solve it. And the other thing is one indifference in your reasoning, and you say this prevents illegal catering activities or providing catering services and thus unfair competition. So you came to us to admit that the State Inspectorate, or again, that administration can't force those who are illegally engaged because if we don't extend them, they will deal illegally. Then why don't we catch them?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70143	Your Honor, Mr. Skoro, I would like to thank you for your comment. And I join you in seeing that everyone who deals with the economy, here I will specifically reflect a little more on tourism, given that I come from the real sector and tourism and I know very well that they need to be honored and recognised because they really make a lot of contributions to the Croatian economy, the development of the Croatian economy, and that our tourism many want to acknowledge or not, definitely gives one significant incentive to the development of other economic activities and the sector in the Republic of Croatia, and that is our obligation to continue to work in this direction. And as far as these changes are concerned, we still don't need to look too wide and learn some lessons from me that aren't needed. What is important is that we have to solve these temporary solutions, while these temporary solutions are being solved we simply have to allow these people to continue to work. And here's the end maybe I'll tell you, don't worry, we're not planning on leaving it to any other government, this government will handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70144	And the last replica, the esteemed representative Marin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70145	Dear Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's a question from the field, specifically, of the owner of a nightclub, says why not all those who work behind midnight, and are now disabled by the headquarters's decision? Namely, HZZ interprets that only nightclubs are banned from working hours, and the headquarters claims that the ban on working hours has been imposed on everyone. Then why doesn't everyone have the right to support the preservation of jobs, nightclubs, disco clubs and disco bars?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70146	Dear Representative Miletic, I thank you for asking. So here's what was published a few days ago, so the job conservation programme continues for certain activities for now, for the next two months, and I'm going to visit in principle that what's most important in this whole programme, so the main criterion of selecting the option of using that measure is the income or the fall in income. As for catering facilities and categorization of catering facilities, therefore in our law you have defined working hours, for example bars, restaurants, etc., and nightclubs, they are a category of themselves, for themselves. So, in this law there is limited working time for restaurants, cafe bars and similar catering facilities that are from the field of food and drink, and night bars also have longer working hours according to this law, and that is why this difference in categorization, their different treatment, because what if the nightclub has a license, by heart I say, works until 6 a.m., and it is closed by decision of headquarters or must be closed by decision of headquarters then it is logical that those who have the right to measure how the government defines them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70147	I thank the Secretary of State. You're done. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Vice President Miroslav Skoro. State Secretary, you can sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70148	Thank you. Art. 238, I'll risk my warning. So, we've got one simple floscule in my replica because, I know that 60% of the accommodation capacity in the apartments in Croatia and I know that on the one hand we need to raise voters to populist measures, but on the other hand we also need to be aware that this is a way to fill the state register, let's be honest to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70149	Dear Vice President, this was a replica, as you yourself said. We're going to the boards. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, okay. Then I open the debate, the first Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the esteemed representative of Anka-Murk Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70150	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So we got an emergency procedure to amend and supplement the Household Activity Act because the date that was in the law before it was here at the door, so we need to change the law in an emergency procedure. So I understand the Ministry of Tourism, understand the need to extend its temporary solutions and understand the need to allow people to deal with hospitality and understand the need to do so and that someone else has to do their job and that these people who deal with hospitality are not guilty, but I can't understand the date you decided to do until the end of 2024. Let's try to understand what this is really about. So we have 15,900 temporary solutions, of 15,900 temporary solutions, part of the temporary solutions is because property relations have been unresolved. Our experience of unresolved property relations can actually get into anals, neither you nor I nor those who deal with property law has the slightest idea how long they'll be able to solve it. So that's one group of temporary solutions and one group of people working with what you have all kinds of cases. Let's say my husband and I have together some real estate we're dealing with, we get divorced, I stay inside, I do the catering and I make money and I say I don't give a shit about him, and I don't want any real estate to get rid of it because it suits me, so there's everything and everything. The second group is because someone didn't get a valid permit. Well, my people, if you've got everything you need for a valid permit, it takes you three months to get it. So, this other group has nothing to do with legalization, this other group is whether someone had a building permit and the basis of a building permit should result in their useful license by the way in which the use of the permits is used in the Construction Act related to the date you built several variants and several topics. And the third group is about legalization. Let's understand what this is about. Real estate can be legalized until 21 June 2011, so the properties were built before 10. All of this in the last 10 years. what people were building illegally, and they were building, building, and now, they can't be legalized. Two deadlines were when you can apply for legalization. One deadline was 30 June 2013, the second deadline was 30, so it was not possible until 2018 and the second deadline was 30 June 2018. Which means a legalized application, that we understand that, too. So the paper in it says I'm asking that my lawless building or part of the building be taken care of. That's the number and that's the one on the street and he's legalizing and nothing else. Let's see how many legalization requirements are resolved. At one point the agency was established if the offices involved, which are offices at the level of the county and large cities, could not do so in a short time and the agency that was doing the job was said that the agency no longer needed to edit it could do so and the agency stopped doing it on 1 July 2018. I've been preparing for this law to see how many illegal, illegal requests we have unsettled at state level. Some 20,000 illegal claims, therefore, that have not been resolved at state level. You're telling me that all these demands... , that all these people who have illegal so they still don't have the requirements are those who deal with hospitality. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I understand the need for the tourism ministry to give its temporary solutions the opportunity to work on, understand the need for the state to fill the budget, but let's understand what this law is about. We use this law as a hospitality service until 2024. And in the building, and I know cases like that, and I'm not talking about it, and you know that I'm trying not to talk about it, I'm not talking about it, I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about it, so let's just understand, man built an illegal house in 2016. He submitted a request for legalisation in 2018, received a temporary solution to the catering business, is a temporary solution in force, he knows that this house will not be able to legalise his interest in rejecting his request as soon as possible so that he can deal with catering in that house. My only question is, is it the interest of this country to host people in illegally built buildings? If that's the interest of this country, I understand this deadline, but clearly say it. Say that the interest of this country is that people are engaged in catering, that it doesn't matter if houses are legal, when they're made, they're not made, and that at one point when all deadlines come out and when we don't, it won't get a further solution. During that time he worked, earned some money, we earned something just to understand what we wanted with this law. If that's the idea, then say it and present it like that. In parallel with this, I must remind you, when the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb, Zagreb County, Krapina-Zagorska, and later on the area of Banija, this law could go to houses that were legally solved, houses which were both established and everything else, here are respected colleagues of houses that were illegally called non-existent houses. And now this amendment of the law has been said, and the restoration is an extreme case, so the earthquake is something that happened to people and the state helps people live there. So, just to understand what we're talking about, we by this law, I'm going to use the terminology that was used by an esteemed representative who when he explained it was about non-existent houses. So, we have temporary solutions that people deal with hospitality in non-existent homes because I would understand that you did the analysis because the application, I repeat, does not mean once again that someone has determined that this house can be legalized. It means that I've filed a request, and it doesn't mean that I'm going to get a legalization solution because someone might find that I can't legalize myself at all because I'm a lawless builder behind the deadline. I understand the need for us to have properties where people deal with hospitality, I understand the need of the Ministry of Tourism to say look, we have a desire for people to deal with hospitality, we want them to fill the state budget, and this together is not our problem, it's not my problem. My problem is that I know someone can do catering, but everything is ultimately our problem. Instead of insisting that the requirements behind which people need to be allowed to work as a priority, that anything that can be legalised is legalized, that people in them work peacefully and peacefully, no. Legalization is one of the topics that I've been dealing with for a long time and that always causes emotion with us, causing the emotion of legal builders who say why you allow someone who is illegal to legalize, the emotion of neighbors who would do something. One of the reasons why we have a lot of illegally built buildings is the state administration that doesn't do its job. And instead of making the state administration do their job, instead of priority when it comes to catering they're solving it, we're staring at that fact. We are actually at this point the Ministry of Tourism absolutely do not multiply the baratate by saying I have of 15,900 solutions 689 which are lawless builders, who were lawless builders and in 2017 and cannot be legalised at all, but I over that glare, but if you decide to hide and say so. In doing so, I have to be honest, and I'm always honest and correct, when it was the first time that I was going to have those who deal with hospitality get temporary solutions, because I said in such a short time, the demands can't be solved, but we're in 2021, and we're talking about unfair construction from 2011, we're talking about demands at this point, so relative to the percentage that was given, a very small percentage of outstanding claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70151	The next debate is at the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, a respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70152	Thank you, Chairman. Good morning. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear Croatian public. Therefore, we have before us the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Food Activity and, by an urgent procedure, the reason for the change in the assessment of the situation is to comply with EU legislation. Well, yes, an emergency procedure I would dare say is a lung that is on the exhale from which the Croatian budget actually breathes for what? For the sake of harmonising with EU legislation, and without really changing it, it is working, facilitating or changing everything that is a daily weight to this activity and to all those who exist in this sector. Now that we're going to change this isn't a matter of state secretary to you, but to the Proposer, why didn't all this happen? Why didn't these changes actually frame or facilitate all the negativity, and one would dare say the country's unfair attitude towards the caterers and all that they point to. In the end, what is the meaning and spirit of this law and of these laws? In the assessment of the state of catering that this law brings in none, therefore in any sentence, at any point, the score or whatever does not stand for what is the real state of every host in Croatia, there are more or less mere phrases that paint, so I would dare say in relation to the real problems depicting a minor problem of the caterer in Croatia. And I agree that they and the smallest of them need to be solved, but changes can't be a purpose to themselves. The catering activity should and should require urgent changes, and this is not here. The fact that there is an ongoing legalisation process that will take some time, and most of the facilities for which temporary solutions are issued that allow the catering activity to be carried out, and as such are not under the law, it is estimated that this part of the facility will remain unused in the next tourist season or remain in the gray zone unless the period of validity of the provisional solutions issued is extended after 31 December. Well, good morning, people, so good morning to you, so isn't this supposed to be logical and long before and beyond any European directive? This was supposed to be logical and yesterday, not yesterday and not today. So do we need European legislation for such examples in order for us to know how lacking we are and how bad our system is? But come on, you've done well with these changes, but 15,900 of them who will be able to start or continue to work in the hospitality activities of the countries will rub their hands because they will pick up almost as much of the EU's biggest intrusions. They remain at the mercy of the chronic lack of quality work staff, in fact screaming about the extreme need for tax discharge as set out in the other competing countries that have done so long ago. With these changes you're equating what shouldn't have been even. I quote, harmonising the provisions on the provision of household catering services with the provisions of the directive in such a way that all tenants in the provision of breakfast services to guests who provide accommodation services are in the same position. H, so how does this change and this sentence sound to you, how serious does this emergency change give you previously quoted text? After all, are the subjects in providing catering services breakfast or whatever else they were ever supposed to be in an unequal position? While you have pushed these crucial changes into an emergency parliamentary procedure, I will remind you of everything that every caterer is going through in this Croatia both yesterday and today, and judging by these changes and tomorrow, due to the sin of failure. The work of catering facilities serving exclusively drinks and drinks is burdened with absolutely the greatest loads in the EU. In Croatia, even though the taxes were too high in the pandemic times to harm entrepreneurs and their future remained intact as such. To be intact, you can be surprised by your colleague Miletic, but that's how it is, the others are intact. What about the introduction of a preferential VAT rate in the hospitality and availability of favourable liquidity assets on the financial market? This would be the oxygen in the lung of those of whom we here all who are largely getting paid. The constant challenge of the caterer is also an administrative obstacle whose abolition has long been sought. In particular, one of the daily examples is the incomprehensible need to run the material bookkeeping where each gram of salad you use when preparing meals must be separated. Decision on... , the failure and the breakdown dates back to 2004, which is disastrous for the Croatian state and its legislation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is quite frustrating for the caterers since they have a fiscalisation system which controls the entire business without any problems and can be equally quality controlled if it is not better controlled if it is carried out in accordance with tax regulations. However, the urgent changes to this law will not entail the planting of decisions and regulations that as such choke the catering activity. The obvious problem is very important for all activities, and mainly for catering, and it is about planning and lack of migration policy that Croatia has not yet adopted, I will not speak. Similarly, I will not talk about the problem of lack of quality labour, which is a side product of multi-annual bad policies without any synergy that is linked in each serious country to a strong link between the labour market and the education system. You tried the Foreign Law to eliminate this problem, but we warned you that quantity will not bring quality and that is exactly what happened, the chronic lack of quality labour in the catering sector. Serious countries deal with this through bilateral agreements. Well almost, as I told you in the replica, 70% of the hospitality happens in 80 peak days, which is more than a clear indicator of concern for this activity. Well, the spirit of the law should build all year round hospitality. Why not build it, answer it not you, but whoever sent you here. You have to understand the key fact in Croatia, hospitality and tourism are two lung wings from which the budget is filled, let's figure it out here all the more. So if we look at the previous years in the shipbuilding, we've hit billions and billions, and it's all gone again, everything. And I don't understand in the context of the problem speech, so should there be a problem of lack or excess in the register of a specific host, should it be a problem to properly put it into easier tax offences, is the problem of abolishing consumption tax at national level, so is the problem of vacuuming for workers according to the model that exists in agriculture, is the problem of removing various parafiscal burdens and recognising the costs of the representation of 100% for economic operators? Yeah, obviously that's the problem. While we remain in this state for sure as we enjoy the afternoon coffee we ordered there about 6 hours and get an account that says the time that coffee was sold at 10:30 in the morning we will certainly read the texts of those who are actually similar to one that appeared in a Split restaurant "Dear Guests, all taxes are included in the price", Croatia full of life, a small country with large taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70153	The next debate is on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, the respected representative Anja Simprag.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70154	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, my colleagues and my colleagues. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Food Activity with the final draft law and should adopt it in an urgent procedure. It is definitely that there are very important amendments to the laws that should be passed as soon as possible, but at the same time I have a feeling that this legal proposal goes under the radar, there are almost no letters about it in the media, only a few specialised institutions mention changes. The legislative proposal seeks to bring into line with internal legislation, in particular the Law on the System of State Administration, as well as European legislation, as there will be a harmonisation of the provisions on the provision of catering services in the household with the provisions of the European Directive, in a way that all tenants in the provision of breakfast services to guests who provide accommodation services are in the same position. Therefore, it is proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure in order to continue the adoption of catering activities and the provision of catering services in the facilities for which they are governed by the procedure for the law of illegally built buildings, or in objects for which actual ownership relations do not comply with the situation in the land books. When you think that the food crisis caused by the coronaryvirus in certain parts and the earthquake is not enough if the period of validity of the temporary solutions would not extend the solution would cease to be valid from 31.12 this year, which would have led to a major economic disturbance and would have caused a number of negative consequences for all because almost 16,000 solutions with a duration of up to 31.12 this year were issued. As a result, there would be a conscious creation of a grey zone or a reduction of accommodation capacity in tourism, and we also know here several times that there is a reduction in revenues for the state budget and loss of jobs in the catering facilities for which such solutions have been made. In order to prevent unwanted repercusions, it is good to propose extending the period of validity of temporary solutions for catering facilities, household facilities and OPGs until the end of 2024. However, the legislative proposal itself states that the problems have at all led to a little less than two months before the expiry of the provisional solutions, we realized that we would be late or that individuals would potentially be out of work. The main problem with others is the number of applications and capacities submitted by the competent authorities and also the staff sub-capacitation in terms of the number of people working on legalisation procedures. We all need to imagine and see if only by extending the deadline without the staff reinforcements of the competent authorities will we succeed in reaching the goal or completing a comprehensive legalisation process that will certainly take some time. In addition, the extension of the period of validity of the provisional solutions prevents the illegal provision of catering or catering services and thus unfair competition for the tenants operating in accordance with the law. The legal amendments also correct certain shortcomings identified in the practice of the handling of competent authorities, which means that in the case of temporary solutions in meeting the minimum conditions for the type and category of catering facilities, it is necessary to further prescribe the obligation to deliver temporary solutions to the competent administrative authority for issuing a solution on the state of play. In order to return that body to the competent administrative authority, a copy of the executive solution which has decided to apply for the initiation of the legal process of the illegally built building, in order to remove the temporary solution and to adopt a solution to meet the conditions for the type and category of catering facility. Given the importance of the amendments and the number of subjects in the area of catering activity directly affected by this expiry of the deadline, but also by a large number that would feel the consequences of not extending the deadline, the SDSS Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law, but will also call on the Ministry of Construction and the competent departments of spatial planning in the counties to complete the legalisation process that is going on and on as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70155	The next debate is on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, respected representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70156	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In 2021. Almost a quarter of Croatian citizens live at risk of poverty, and it is very likely that they will live in 2022. be even more. While fuel prices are at historically high levels, on shelves in shops there are increasingly expensive food citizens of the Republic are becoming increasingly more difficult to meet basic needs of life. The pandemic has devastated many pockets, and the potential wave of collection could completely empty them out. In the 600 days that the pandemic of thousands of citizens has run out of work, income has fallen to almost all workers and entrepreneurs, the Croatian economy has suffered the considerable consequences of the pandemic, and most of it has been felt by micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Their credit lines are disabled, their grants are almost gone, and many of them have been late and support for 4,000 kuna workers who are not enough anyway for recovery and compensation. Many entrepreneurs and craftsmen gave all their savings to save at least part of their business. In May, they demanded that they be allowed to open and work fully in the closed areas of cafe bars, as was possible in most EU countries, and unfortunately only after three and a half months later when the tourist season was already on the run and after more than 1000 family catering facilities were permanently closed. They appealed and stressed that not all catering crafts and tourist activities are located only on the coast but there are also continental entrepreneurs working all year long, not only during the summer season. The government has also ignored them and announced the suspension of support measures in September this year. Now that the current epidemiological situation is being seen, which is getting worse every day, it is clear that they are about to have an uncertain period, which makes the decision to remove incentives to preserve jobs even more illogical. Night clubs and bars still after 600 days are still closed, and our young parties are looking for in neighbouring countries and it's not a secret. And instead of having the headquarters and the government tackle the pandemic problem, regulate the work of nightclubs and nightclubs through the covid certification system and stop violating their constitutional right to work, the headquarters sends confusing and illogical decisions that only go directly to the harm of the entrepreneurs themselves. Today is the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Household Activity Act. In order to continue to carry out catering activities and to provide catering services in facilities governed by the law of illegally built buildings or in facilities which are illegal. According to the applicable law, the hosts were able to carry out their activities on an illegal facility if they applied for legalisation and came up with a temporary solution which was valid until 31.12.2021.g. In this amendment, the deadline to 2024 would be extended. i.e. This is the deadline for resolving the legalisation of illegal objects, although it has already been one of the amendments to that law, from 2016 to 2021. What falls into the eyes is the slowness of the work of the competent ministry on this issue, according to which 15,900 temporary solutions have been issued, and the deadline for the application for legalisation was 30.6.2018. How can you still be in 2021? There are unresolved demands and not a few but 15,900? Who says he works and doesn't actually do his job? Who stops the work of resolving legalization and whose interest is it? That's where we ask the question. We need to be aware if this legal issue is not resolved within the prescribed deadline, many will have to put the key in the lock and permanently shut down the work of their facilities. And who's going to be responsible for that? How it's in our beautiful, nobody. And whose damage? Just the caterers and their employees. After the establishment of the agency which proved to be inconsistencies with regard to the resolution of this legalisation issue, it was restored in 2019. solving the legalisation of construction offices where each county has its own facilities in cities. It is obvious that the ministry has relocated hot potatoes to the county offices and is now taking its hand off that it is none of their business when they are called on to be reluctant and slow to address this problem. The Social Democrats Club advocates the transparent and legally regulated work of all the hosts and their activities without exception. However, it also points to the slowness of the administration and the lack of communication between the ministries that should provide both an equally quality and a secure working environment for every worker to our host. The entire catering sector has been suffering from various restrictions for 600 days, and everyone has been prevented from working because of the pandemic. The assistance measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted so far have not helped the catering sector. So far, the entire sector has lost more than 11,000 employees, and as time passes, the number will increase unless an adequate solution is found. This way, we call on the competent ministries to accept jobs and address this burning issue and problem and thus enable the survival of entrepreneurs and their employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70157	Next is the debate on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the respected representative Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70158	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with a colleague, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have lived my whole life in Istria, in a part of Croatia where tourism is the most developed economic branch and for a good part of the resident is the main or at least important additional source of income. It is a specific service activity that you want to be successful in it only exceeds mere economic activity. Tourist workers in all sectors at all levels, all those who make a part of the tourist offer on the modern tourist market, and especially in these specific pandemic times must make every effort, always offer and provide the highest level of service the best of themselves to win and then keep the guest. The facts are those with which people live in tourist areas, we are fully aware of them just as we are aware of the importance of tourism for us personally, for our environments, but also for the country in which we live, and in which 20% of GDP make up just the revenues from tourism. And that is why I am pleased with every legislative initiative that goes in the direction of helping the tourism sector which will help this Croatian economy locomotive as much as we like or do not provide support in any way. I therefore welcome these amendments to the Household Act, which will bring certain benefits to certain categories of tourist and catering workers, i.e. the catering service providers. However, it is quite clear, and this is at this time what I would like to say is again that there are almost negligible changes which, on the one hand, put out some kind of fire that is ultimately partly caused by the slow process of legalising illegal objects, and on the other hand, it is only one of the infinite minor alignments with European legislation. Of both ad hoc legal changes will benefit only a small part of the catering service provider so it is actually about some benefit, about some benefit for this activity in the context of these changes of the law and speak funny. But it's less funny if I remind myself of some of the real, big, long-term problems our tourism, our tourist and catering workers have been dealing with for years. I'm sorry. It's about problems I never once warned about, which I'm going to point to as long as something doesn't change. First of all, I will stress the great tax and parafiscal burden that Croatian tourism has put in an unfavourable position for years in relation to competition from other tourist countries. Additionally reduced VAT rates on accommodation and reducing and equating tax rates to all catering services but also reducing too many often totally unexplainable parafiscal burdens is something to seriously consider whether we want to give Croatian tourism a hand in the global crisis that has hit us all, especially tourism in the past 2 years. Because this year we have to admit it in good faith and happiness, and it has given us epidemiological circumstances far more favourable than most of our tourist competitors, which has bestowed on this unexpected season. But the question is what starting positions we're going to start next season. Whether our competitors will prepare and position themselves better and the competition will be far more demanding and difficult. In this regard, it should be noted that in the current crown of the crisis, 15 EU countries have further helped their tourism sector in addition to other stimulating and supportive measures, simply reducing the tax rate for tourism, in order to encourage recovery to this most affected economic sector, both very important and many other countries, not only Croatia. I know, there's got to be some people who are wondering, so why do they need the state's support and help after such a good season? Well, it's very short. Because this good season has arrived after a catastrophic one that the tourism sector has thrown on its knees, and these are relatively good, but compared to the time before Covid, the poor tourist results are not unfortunately enough for this well-spent sector to return to how much balance they are. And I repeat, it is an economic sector whose revenues account for an extremely 20 per cent of Croatia's GDP, but which is also the best export channel of the national economy. So I don't think there's any doubt. Such a strategically important economic branch definitely needs additional support from the state and state institutions. If, of course, we want Croatia's tourism to be successful and competitive in the coming season. I appeal, therefore, to Prime Minister Plenkovic on this occasion to the Ministers of Security from Tourism to Finance to take the situation seriously, to show that they are aware of the moment, and to find ways to take concrete steps towards fiscal and parafiscal relief of our tourism before the next tourist season. And at least part of that money that the state on one side is going to give up can be compensated on the other side. Namely, one of the very present problems in the tourism sector is and not reporting guests especially in the so-called ". Non-competitional accommodation. Owners of apartments and holiday houses, foreign and Croatian citizens who have a legal obligation to apply as tourists to pay a tourist tax at a discount of as much as 70%. However, despite these favourable conditions, a large number of them do not report their stay and do not pay the fee by cutting public budgets both locally and stately. This situation has unfortunately been present for many years and only confirms that the existing legal frameworks are not adequate and effective and that they need to be changed. What the new adequate legislation in this direction should foresee is certainly an opportunity for powers and autonomy in monitoring and sanctioning black-door accommodation to local self-government units and local tourist communities. It worked very well there by the end of the 1980s, when these jobs were very effective by auxiliary tourist inspectors in the direction of the municipalities at the time. I think it would help bring this down to local and regional level with the appropriate legal framework in many ways to solve this, but also a number of other similar situations for multiple benefits. So it's about another segment so much decentralization that we in IDS are constantly defending. And in the end, I'm going to remind you of something I've already pointed out from this pay phone. In addition to the need to address the many, daily operational almost life-threatening problems of tourist and catering workers, what Croatian tourism needs is certainly as soon as possible to adopt a new tourism development strategy. She is in the making, again this topic in the media has been up to date, but too much time has passed. We are waiting too long and it is high time for this story to end, to finally define new directions and frameworks for the development of Croatian tourism. And on this occasion, I will stress that my opinion is that, as part of the strategy, it is certainly necessary to focus on sustainable tourism and redefine the overall tourist offer in this direction, of course with the agreement of all key stakeholders. But what is most important to me, and what I always stress is that this strategy is enforceable so that in the end we do not get a document in which only a lot of things will be beautifully written. Let us therefore consider and take care of Croatian tourism at this strategic level, but let us not forget and ignore those who actually make it, who live daily and who live from tourism. Let us not forget tourist workers in all sectors, our hosts and all those who make up a tourist picture of Croatia. They're important to us, we need them just like they need us. Let's be partners, let's be supportive of each other because our goals and interests are common as long as we live together in our beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70159	The next debate is on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Willim Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70160	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It's too obvious to us that both colleagues and colleagues have said, fire extinguishing, but literally at the last minute because 31.12 is close and it's actually impossible to imagine that this extension of temporary solutions could later be brought. That it was brought without any working group, it's also understandable and now it's said here that this is actually one big and important thing in a uncertain economic situation where it's very important and we're aware of what the next season is going to be like, that we're not talking about today's inconceivable and alarming numbers that are more than frightening and that should be the reason to even ask a question, which is how, but of course no one is questioning that the caterers should be doing. However, see only how this is set out in this law that the objects for which the legal process is conducted are not legally built. All right, out of those 15,900, let's imagine that there are only two impertinent in this Croatia, only two, and the other 15,898, all the people who have had this happening for the third time, the secretary of state said, because the local administration is not able to handle it. It's been eight years and now it's re-extended, but let's just imagine the situation that we know, we've had in the family, and we've had examples of how someone dares and takes your part of something that you're together, brothers and sisters not to talk about and take something that they don't have the right to do, make an object that they didn't even get permission because they see that it can, and that's not how you say it is consistent with the state of the land books, it's not consistent, yes. And now what is ironic in all things, you claim this law prevents illegal catering activities, yes, and thus unfair competition to caterers and tenants who operate in accordance with the law. But I'm saying if we take just for example these two people who are being bold and who are actually committing one violence, then we can imagine that someone else who complained about it sees it go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Of course every caterer that can work is important to us, but first of all, like you said, those who really work in accordance with the law, you're too important to us. And my proposal for this would be if this solution was so alarmingly passed legally, I think it should somehow help to put these 15,900 cases really as an alarmingly important thing if not for next summer, but for that summer behind it to help and to reduce that figure if it's at least under 50% possible, and then maybe by the end of this deadline that you've set, maybe those 15,900 come down completely to zero. And what's most important is that those possible two daredevils, because we know that there are no insolents in Croatia ourselves, are very rare, but that there are two arrogant people working against the law to catch them by the end of this term, by the end of '24. And then we know that everyone's doing really well under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70161	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives, the esteemed representative of Damir Bajs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70162	... colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. [[Specially enabled.]] When we talk about Croatian tourism most often at a time of crisis, it was 2011, in 2021, expecting Croatian tourism to help the economy get out of the crisis, not only of Croatia but also of all Croatian citizens. But of course when we talk about it then we must help Croatian tourism and help. Namely, 2020. It was a very difficult year, and I will say that the tourist workers for the first time have actually made their new associations, whether it is the National Association of Hosts, whether it is the Voice of Entrepreneurs, and although we have both the HGK and the Chamber of craftsmen and the HUP,... it was actually that the sector under great pressure was last year, and probably these. This means, of course, that result that we received in 2021 is not a guarantee for 2022, and I would say that today's debate is about a law that is related to tourism, but that none of these associations that are otherwise very loud, which very strongly promote the interests of Croatian tourism have gone public with this law. That actually means that they don't think that's really important. That it's one of the missed chances of preparing the 2022 season. I'm going to say that, in particular, this law should certainly be supported. We have no choice, an emergency procedure, so 15,900 people dealing with tourism need to be resolved. Why is it an emergency procedure, why isn't it months ago? It's a question for the tourism ministry. Of course, it's for me and a missed chance. This law could also make a number of other shifts required, for example, by the Association of National Hosts, or if we're going to do it officially from the HGK, but that's not what you see here. Why there have been 15,900 temporary solutions to this matter. I don't think it's just a problem with the Ministry of Tourism, but also with the overall functioning of a state administration that certainly didn't meet the challenges ahead of them. Why does this law allow for a very short solution to the issue of actually extending? I think you should have extended longer, people invest in their facilities if they invest in a way that has such short-term solutions then the question is whether they will raise a quality that is very important. On the other hand, what we're not talking about today, but something we have to look back on is what's already been said before. The lack of therefore a larger Croatian tourism strategy for the next 10 years. The second thing, the issue of fiscal and parafiscal burdens that, at the moment, actually puts our tourism in an unfavourable position. Remember, Croatian tourism is the most competitive part of the Croatian economy. 160 countries of the world are currently competing and their tax systems allow their tourism to be better, better quality to give lower prices. We have to work on that. I'm not saying we have to accept everything proposed by a caterer or tourism in general, but part by part we have to solve. And we need to deal with that now because right now it's, in London is a big tourist summit so I'd say where offers are being made for the next 2022. Offers based on tax and fiscal burdens on tourism. So, of course, we're already late here. What I would also point out is that every part of tourism has its own problems. For example, when we talk about hotelers, then they have their own part of the sector, which is, for example, related to what is becoming a major problem, which is actually a labour force, work permits, and I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister of Tourism, along with a proposal coming from you, should now address the issue of what is coming next year. So, agreeing with the tourism sector, making proposals and sort of solving what it is, I would say a prerequisite for tourism, and these are people. With all that we have, which is actually the beauty of our country, the objects, history, so all forms of tourism still most people must be the basis for the quality that we now need to give. And yes, 2021 was a good year, but 2022 is not guaranteed by anything. And now that we're talking about what's ahead of us, that's the pandemic and the hospitality that we've mentioned here and that's actually.../incomprehensible/... for this moment I'd say under pressure about, just with hospitality. Namely, the pandemic is certainly at this moment the situation that I would have said is extremely worrying that our guests are increasingly less visiting our restaurants, less and less coming to the catering facilities, that this winter will actually bring the fact that part of these facilities will be closed unless the state gives a hand. A hand of support at times when it's most important. Therefore, when we talk about active measures to support tourism, if necessary, it is now necessary. When they stop, actually when people close restaurants, when they shut down catering facilities, when they stop doing tourism, then it'll be too late. And I would therefore ask the Ministry of Tourism to be very active in this regard, to propose to the government that these measures be extended and that those who need this help now. People sometimes think that help is needed at the time of summer, no, it needs it right now over winter in the Corona situation. I think that this law, as I said, is not controversial, except that the chance to put into it everything that is important for tourism, everything that is sought and that we could actually have one possibility of discussing but also making decisions that the Croatian Parliament has to help for the next 2022. However, we will support this, we do not have a choice, and we expect something else from the real problems of tourism to come before the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70163	In the name of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Anton Kleman will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70164	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ Club will fully support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Activity Act with the final draft law in an emergency procedure. Namely, as already stated by all exhibitors, two basic guidelines of this law or the intention of this law, namely to extend the activity of 15,900 of our hosts or the provider of accommodation services for the next period, given that they have not been completed, the procedures for one part of the legislation or legalisation of their facilities, and the other part did not resolve property issues around their facilities, which are the most often and difficult circumstances for obtaining work permits or categorisation. And it is also very important to say in this part of which we have not yet, nor have we spoken about it, that the category of bed & breakfast options has been introduced practically in our offer, therefore for the tenants, or for the caterers. As has been said so far, this is indeed a good bill where further work will be made possible, and I do not see any other possibilities but that the ministry has simply extended this deadline and thus has set a deadline until 2024. to try to solve these collapses in the administrative sense, and I can see already that it is understood, the situation that the state is not alone as such, but that in a large number of these legalisation procedures are brought down to the levels of the county, cities and municipalities. So, we know ourselves that perhaps even exactly the counties, cities and municipalities, and especially cities and municipalities are not sufficiently capacitated to solve these problems, and that we can really expect in this period of time that they will try and solve these problems that our service providers and caterers look forward to, and I hope that it will indeed be so that during this period that the ministry has set out in the law that they will, that they will solve these problems. However, as we know for ourselves and see from daily presses, I come from, from Istria I see it and in my own eyes, this illegal construction and this one doesn't stop so we have one, one, one serious process in Istria especially in coastal areas where there is absolutely no law enforcement people and on agricultural parcels there is still a devastation of space, growing and wild, so wild building and hopefully this ministry will not, but the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, and finally the State Inspectorate and the local community finds solutions to put an end to it in order to save the space anyway and to manage to consolidate our tourist offer on the ground and to be able to place it on foreign markets as best as possible. It is definitely to praise that the law has introduced itself, introduced the bed & breakfast category, which so far has not been possible, so it is not a binding category, it is a category if the host wants to offer bed & breakfast he will be able to offer as a standard part of the service and I only hope that under minimum technical conditions it will be well done, it will be well done and that this service will definitely be provided without major minimum technical complications because we know how to complicate stories when new products appear on the market. We who have traveled around tourism, and I believe that we are all here who, who are sitting somewhere and, and were, know that it is almost a standard service bed & breakfast on foreign markets, so I look forward to having the ministry recognise it and going in that direction. It is very important to say that through this whole, this improvement of work, the work of our caterers is very important to say that we need to speed up the process of standardisation our services or I would say retegorization of private accommodation in the Republic. We know for ourselves that this is being done in the ministry and that, in time, I hope that we will succeed in establishing this retegorization system and that we will get a standard service on our tourist market so that we can better place this product of private accommodation on foreign markets. In fact, we have one, one big difference between objects categorized there sometime until 2005-'6 years, and then here, 4 stars, which the Ministry of Tourism or the State has given to objects as one standard for providing services or hardware in terms of apartments and holiday homes, is no longer current as it is today. It's very confusing in the market, and I think there's a great effort to make, and I appeal to both the ministry and all the authorities working on categorization to speed up these processes, to create from what we have today as one... in Europe, which is a very, very large number of apartments and holiday homes offered on the market to level them in the standard and that we can place them on the market as best as possible to boost the competitiveness of Croatian tourism on the European and world markets, which I think is very important. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every product since we're a small country, we have to lead it to perfection. We did it with our camps, we did it with our hotels where we might be one of the most competitive countries in Europe, but we don't seem to be able to do it with private accommodation. Private accommodation is a major challenge for this ministry, I would say for the state, but I would say that there is also one of the greatest potentials where we can advance in the tourist offer. So here's what I'm calling on the ministry to do as it went on and with this I'd say the first step with the bed & breakfast to try to solve this problem. We know that we put this in some legal framework, and I think it's one challenge in front of the tourism ministry that's very large, but I hope that the Ministry of Tourism will find both the administrative forces and all the other resources in the country to, uh, go to solve this problem. Here's another HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much. . /.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70165	Thank you. The next will be the House Movement Representatives' Club, and the honourable representative of Ante Prkacin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70166	... Am I in the program? [[Specially enabled.]] I did. This time it's 10 minutes enough for me, I can even spend two minutes on shit. So, hello, everyone. Mr. Secretary of State, former ministers, etc. We in the Homeland Movement are disappointed with this legal proposal, but we will support it as well as fellow Miletic from Most. Disappointed, but we'll support him, now I'm going to explain why we're disappointed, why we're going to support him. What you've suggested is okay, it's acceptable under these difficult conditions there are shortcomings, but it's to accept. But we're disappointed that the main problem of hospitality is that it's clouded and not transparent division between night and living places is not touched at all. I was here a year ago talking about the Noise Protection Act pointing to the opposite of two laws passed in HS. In the same assembly passed the Law on Hosting Tourism Activity and the Law on Noise Protection, and they opposed one another, and we even came up with a political legal problem. When the law is contrary to the Constitution then it is settled by the Constitutional Court, and when the two laws are conflicted with each other here with us, I don't know if the cure was found in the meantime, but there is no way to comply with those two laws. And what's this about? In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 9th century 1st subparagraph, which speaks of working hours, lists the places that could be called colloquial places because these places do not require special working conditions at night, and they are allowed to work up to 12 hours because according to this recently mentioned Noise Protection Act, the night begins at 23 hours and lasts until 7 o'clock or I don't know how long morning, means every place that has passed over 23 hours he would have to have the protection of a nightclub, and no catering facility, and there are thousands in Croatia who are in that daily regime and who has no obligation to have special protection enter into the night. To make evil bigger, units of local administration or local self-government, former ministers who are the local administration, local self-government has the right to extend their working hours at first one hour, two hours, and then all night long and there are some special regulations. Do you know how funny it is when you guys have a coffee shop in one basement to extend your hours all night long, which are the regulations? Those would be to quickly bring a group of one 50 masters, builders, locksmiths, etc. Well, to build a wall like this, so this kind of hydro-insulation, that kind of thermo-insulation, that's the same thing as sound insulation, so double-insulation, so the double comes out, it's actually funny, and it needs a serious team, and we're hoping in the Homeland Movement that there's a very serious tourism minister coming in, so that's what we need to take care of. Furthermore, this Household and Tourism Act is also in conflict with the Constitution, constitutional law, I think it's a constitutional art. 49th that guarantees equality. In order for you to have one real discotheque, one real nightclub you have to invest huge funds in that money, pardon huge funds in that space. And someone else gets a night job thanks to me and I don't know why, and there's a place that's about as big as a toilet as a sanitary node of a catering facility. You have an absurd situation that the size of the catering facilities is limited or not limited but that the lower limit is 110 squares, so it's bursting with laughter. In the city of Zagreb, in one night club rightly needs wardrobe and toilet bit 110 squares. And you know why it was put like that? Because one of the representatives of Zagreb's hosts was on a team that decided besides the other also on the Law on Hosting and Tourism Activities and had a man-place of 112 squares. In order for him to declare the place a nightclub, it's a cafe that needs to be in double registration mode, it's well placed 110 squares, so it's funny. I'm telling you this because you're expected to do a lot. I'm a caterer, and I'm a caterer in a memo that I sent to the ministry, and I said that I and mine can manage in this Croatian hoax, if it has to be smudged by double registrations and... registrations, etc. We can, but for God's sake, let the law begin in this country. Which of my colleagues, I think my colleague Matula mentioned unfair competition, if I'm not mistaken, you said unfair competition because those who don't respect the laws, etc. But in catering, the bigger problem is unfair competition in accordance with the law because the law is so made and changed, the law is I think 2015. It's been brought in six times before that. It has been changed every time with the aim of pleasing someone, so it was adopted in 2015, so it was changed immediately in 2016 and 2018 again some changes and additions, mainly changing everything alive but not touching the most serious thing. I have two documents in front of me, or one, is a ship's lawyer who was disturbed by the noise from several hospitality bars, and he took a look at the Housekeeping and Tourism Act, so he sent the First Constitutional Court a constitutional suit waiting to be resolved for 3.5 years. It must be positively resolved as it requires, probably the Constitutional Court retains it for political reasons, and at the same time has proposed amendments and amendments to the law I will give you both. But one more thing, the link between hospitality and tourism. The decision, such a way of working, to tolerate living places to work at night has caused unprecedented damage to Croatian tourism, and 99% of people do not know that. Since I'm a caterer, and I spend a lot of time at catering facilities either in my home, or in someone else's, I know how the barter breathes. The best consumers, the best guests, the best guests are people trust me since 18, so I'm the only 100-year-old who goes around the boards, but already my peers spend very little money on the boards, people go to restaurants, this, this, the right. The most money is spent in a nightclub, that's where young people go. Young people won't be in Croatia because on the Croatian coast you don't have a real discotheque, you have in Montenegro, you have in Spain, you have in Italy, you don't have in Croatia. Why? Because two or three big disco clubs can compete with each other, but when 4-5 small bars get night jobs, discotheques are gone. I know a case of young people from Germany who came to Dubrovnik and were thrilled with Dubrovnik, two days of looking at antiques, and then looking for a nightclub, looking for a night party and going to a disco store empty, at another disco, and somebody told them you have, I think it's called Bourbon Street or something, you have a street cafe. And they came there, thousands of people, people turned around, an hour two spent, went crazy. Their explanation that it seemed to them as if they had entered someone's living room or bedroom, it sucks to them, they're used to discotheques where 3,000 people, 7,000 people, etc., it can't go through in Croatia because of this scandalous rule and these scandalous decisions. Next, a TV show in Zadar. They boast that local leaders and state policy are helping to develop tourism, so they let the bar work all night long and the boss is normally brighter than luck, and the potty apartment owner from the apartment above which he rents those rooms, she can't rent them because her noise bothers her. I am pleased that you have noted some of what I have said, I will give you these two documents, so think about this most serious problem of Croatian hospitality that is reflected in Croatian tourism, and this law, with some drawbacks, is completely acceptable to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70167	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and the respected representative Branko Grcic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70168	... A fellow secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. [[Last-on speaker]] The tourist catering sector must be the biggest victim of this current covid crisis, and that fact itself says that it truly deserves everyone, every way of support. So far, this has been relatively correct and this significant part of the fees passed on from the budget to the tourist catering sector must have helped stay on their feet, at least most of them, and this last tourist season certainly contributed even more to the recovery of this sector. However, all of the other efforts that the Ministry of Tourism is doing in this case should be welcomed and certain segments of this tourist catering sector would lead to a situation that can function normally or semi-normally in these conditions. However, the challenge is ahead of us, so the tourist catering sector has not ended as well. Today is the day when we have 6300 covid infected with the virus, yesterday we had no 4500, the day before yesterday we had or last week also, so the figures that exceeded any period in these 2 gs. Since the COvid crisis, there has been a serious question of how to deal with this monster and how the government will react to this new situation. Unfortunately, here's what I'd say for 10 days I haven't seen anywhere in the media or in the public of Minister Beros. What's this about? Did we really let the Free Car virus in Croatia and say that what experts would say is the entire population, and that in this situation we have a huge, huge pressure on the hospital system, on the health system, which, if this continues the next days, will surely come into a collapse situation. This is what the people of Split warn, so doctors, hospital directors, warn people from, I hear this morning Zabok, Čakovec and other parts of Croatia. So people have to do something. Our position in the SDP is quite clear, vaccination is the only way at this point to permanently deal with the pandemic. However, the government should be absolutely clear and correct to our people and say that vaccination today does not mean immunity today and rescue from covids, that vaccination today at the first dose and in two or three weeks a second dose means gaining immunity for 4 or 5 weeks, and in 4 to 5 weeks who lives who dies. Therefore, I am convinced, now speaking for myself, I am convinced that the government must go public and present to the Croatian people what it intends to do to make this wave of 4th wave that is a terrible wave calm. And we really expect it from the Croatian government. It is high time, therefore, that everyone and the profession and all those who are relevant and who have something to do with this problem. And that's also important for this topic, so this is not out of the question that we're talking about today, it's important for this topic. We as SDP have been for months I would say the last few years have fought for further tax relief in the catering tourism sector. Meanwhile, there was a covid crisis and there was a need with the covid crisis for some other support, so above all to preserve jobs in the tourist sector, in a dining sense that was particularly threatened and now we are coming into a situation that obviously the government with all these minuses and holes that we listened to yesterday in the budget rebalancing obviously will have to reconsider some kind of support and compensation if it takes measures that will concern the catering tourism sector. So it's also a new consequence and something that probably doesn't even exist in the rebalancing process. So this situation, this serious situation every minute, every hour, makes us make some new decisions every day, some new adjustments to these extremely challenging conditions. Is the government aware of that? It's probably, but I'm afraid he's acting very opportunistic, to run away from any conflict with any social group in the state. It's three years until next election, there's no need for that, so the government doesn't need anyone to be appalled now but to make decisive moves that will solve such a serious crisis. As for the law itself and these proposals that my colleagues have already said quite precisely, we can in principle support this, although I say in the context of supporting the tourist catering sector, but not only because of the fact that there is an objectively problem in terms of solving all these 15,000 and some or 16,000 requests for legalisation of illegal, currently illegal facilities in which a certain type of tourist catering activity takes place. So, we support the extension of that deadline, we are aware and we heard yesterday on the board and today in the debate that the capacities of the spatial planning department at local or above all regional level, at the county level are weak personnel, poorly filled and that simply people do not have the capacity to solve all these problems. My colleague Mrak Taritaš said almost everything about what we used to do as a government, and what should be further steps to address this serious legalisation problem today, we always stress some of those objects that are illegal, but they can meet the legalization requirements to do so. I don't expect that when this process is over, if it ends by the end of 2024 all 16,000 objects will be legalized because then why are we doing this job? Then we could tell you by one move of feathers here are the people your facility, your building is legal and there's no need to deal with it. Therefore, this measure is absolutely acceptable, but we call on the government and I think it was already debated to ensure that these mechanisms from the ministry to local or regional offices, or sectors dealing with spatial arrangements, are strengthened to speed up the process. We wouldn't want to look at those situations that we saw in the part of Istria last night, where on agricultural land first, the barracks turn into serious haciendas and they don't have any single paper. That's what my colleague Kleman was talking about, so we need to take this whole story very seriously and try to ultimately make the result fair, especially fair to all those citizens who paid serious money for both projects and utility contributions and everything that is paid when you want to build something. So, first of all, because of them all, and they're most of them, and I think we really need to pay attention to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70169	Thank you. We are now moving to individual debates and will be the first to speak with a respected representative called Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70170	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start with something that's supposed to be normal every time the law changes that there is an effect on the implementation of that law, to see what this law produces in society, and then we can refer to it. A large part of the speakers before me actually referred to things that are being resolved by this law, but which are not the subject of today's debate or today's changes. But let's go back a little bit to these today's changes as a colleague said the ceasefire at the last minute because we practically a month before the end of the year got a law that lasts until the end of the year. And then you ask yourself, is that really a fire extinguisher? It may be a ceasefire, but the way it's crowded can also be hunting in a blurry or guessing someone. Why do I say hunting in blurry or guessing? Because when you talk about illegal construction or what is not legalized by law then realistically, and we have seen this example now and in the earthquake affected areas, we can talk about 3 types of objects, or 3 types of requirements, a request that can be complete and then the question is why it is not solved. I can't believe these 15,000 demands can't be solved at 6. or that it cannot be solved in a year, it should be caca. A hundred employees, so now let someone add up by units by county as many employees as there are who can handle it in a year. The other thing is if that request is not complete, then the referent who has this request has an option or refuse that request because it is not complete or keeps it in the drawer and does not destroy the possibility for a man to legalize the house one day. Now, the question is, why isn't someone legalizing? In the area of Sisak, Petrinja and Clay, we have witnessed that people really did not have the money for this legalization or for the documentation, they also filed that 15 thousand kuna for the geodeette, 15 thousand kuna and more for the project, they simply did not have. People who do some sort of activity let's just say they make 100,000 kunas. In these 15,000 objects, it's a billion and a half kuna of which, realistically, a state budget in one way or another should be paid 300 million, whether VAT, contributions or something. But one thing we forget, these illegal objects didn't pay for a municipal contribution that served the development of JLS that had to provide that facility with a municipal infrastructure because otherwise you couldn't deal with tourism, or catering, or anything else. And then we need to ask ourselves why the government doesn't want to think systematically? Why didn't the moment she met this problem make a strategy to solve it? Why is it that at the moment when we have covid, and many have spoken, we haven't adapted the Croatian tourism strategy to it and we have seen how to help both the caterers and the tenants, but also JLS who, let's say in a way, maintain this space that others use to achieve economic activity. When you turn these 15,000 objects into finance, it's huge, huge money a year, and I think someone who wants to run the country must think about it in a much more systematic way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70171	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoke by a respected representative of Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic, about the pardon, Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70172	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, dear secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. As I said in the debate on behalf of the club, I'll repeat it in an individual debate. I understand your ministry, I understand that you are forced or forced or you want to have temporary solutions to situations that you have unresolved because in this way you allow people to work and allow, among other things, that they are people who will, who will, in turn, pay into the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Kleman had just said at the end of his debate that we had taken care of the camp situation when we talk about tourism, but what we're having a problem with is what's actually a private sector. And you're just prolonging this agony. My people, let's just remember, let's think about it in context, out of 15,900 temporary solutions is part of unresolved property relations, I don't know how much, you didn't give an answer. For unresolved property relations, this process may take 20 years, so bring a provision and say that by then it can have a temporary solution until it solves its property legal relations and you have solved the problem of the deadline. He's part of it because he doesn't have a valid license. Why doesn't there have been any useful permits, why they didn't come out, why don't you insist and arrange to get used permits out, and that's why you and the Ministry of Tourism don't sit down with the ministry that's responsible for issuing permits and tell my people you're making us people have temporary permits. Give the instruction, the district, the minister should have all the applicable permits related to tourism or be issued or rejected. Third subject, legalization. Legalization leaves no one indifferent. Those who were lawless builders why they had to legalize at all, why the state didn't say everything was legal, those who did said the check a little I was being a jerk, I paid for that license, I paid for everything, and now you're legalizing someone. I will use a sentence that is, that is, a word used by one of our fellow parliamentary representatives when it comes to rebuilding and said that it is legalization that it cannot be, that it could not be restored to an existing building. He called buildings that are illegal and that are not legally legalized. We in these nonexistent buildings, I never used it, never said that word you give the possibility of a temporary solution. Let's be reasonable people, when there was a wave of legalization, do you know how many states were at the level of a year that had an agency and offices to handle demands? Let me tell you, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2018, until the Agency is shut down, as many positive, very few negative solutions have been issued. So, this country, not some other one, not Switzerland or Norway, has been at the level of a year when over 100,000 solutions on legalisation were issued annually by the agencies along with the competent offices. On 1 July 2018, this assembly decided to shut down the agency, the agency was of temporary character, it was not an agency imagined as an agency and it would take years, to shut down the agency, because it said there was no need for the agency because it had enough offices, sufficient capacity in the offices, and it would solve lawlessly, or it would bring solutions to the illegal construction or legalisation of buildings, I was the one who voted for it because I believed. I trusted my men you know exactly what you're doing and what you're managing, you're going to transfer there. So, we don't learn business anymore, we don't learn how the procedure is going to be conducted anymore, and all together, we all know it moved there they had methodologies, they were spranches, everything was e-solved, you have everything, you have a request, you have a solution, you go on. Today I hear we have to extend to or I've heard it on committees that I've been on that we have to extend it to 2024. Because there's no capacity and there's no one to work and that's the reason. So let's not fool ourselves. If we're making some kind of regulation, let's know why we're bringing it in. I'm running out of time, and I'm correct, and the vice president...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70173	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70174	You're an esteemed colleague. Here's the end of your debate, so I'm noticing... 15,900 objects that are not actually "legislative", I think, basically, requiring a specific action plan. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] And my question is how do you with your experience, so Ministers in the construction sector, how do you handle it? What action plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70175	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70176	Thank you very much. So, I was talking somewhere at the end of the debate, not some country, but this country. We've been leveled a year over 100,000 solutions agencies plus offices. They hired people on fees who did it, the agency hired people who didn't know anything at first, and we also had programs in which sprans, solutions and everything else. I'm worried about another thing, I'm worried about being the slogan related to tourism, you're flying into a nonexistent house. I'm worried about that because in these 15,900 requests I'm sure there are those who built in 2015, filed a request in 2018, and they know they'll be resolved, and when they're settled, they'll be working on it, and I'm worried about it, and it's not good and it's worth talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70177	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70178	Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash. We're talking about 16,000 objects that have temporary solutions, but nobody mentions those objects that don't even have temporary solutions, so illegal buildings that are being built, used for commercial purposes by those who have money. So let's not sell this fake demagogue to let people work to earn something, etc., that's what those who already have money by who knows what basis nobody controls so local self-government units that report such illegal constructions to all possible state inspectorates or under inspectors don't get any answers. For example, my unit of local self-government when something reports then gets a response from the State Inspectorate after two years, after two years, two years. Is that normal and what to do about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70179	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70180	When you're in charge of one resort, then you have to, so I really don't think the minister who runs it has to be an expert on that portfolio because maybe the best builder in the country should be at the head of the Department of Construction, but it has to have people around it who understand something and you have to know the goal. And there's no helping us until after one minister leaves, regardless of the same option or another, the next one gets to pick up where he left off. We need to know what the point of legalization was. The point of legalisation was that what was illegal until a certain date on 21 June 2011 was legalized and that later we had an absolutely defensive mechanism that illegal construction would always be, but that illegal construction would be to the least possible extent. Now it's all gone, everything's gone where it doesn't have to go. It's been built illegally, and I don't know when it's been built more and more, so not lawless those who have no money but who have money and who are willing to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70181	Thank you. Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash. Please tell me, given that you have so much experience and that you said that this agency worked 100 thousand a year to assume that in this sense, these 15%, as much as it would actually be, or almost 16%, could be done very quickly. What do you think, is there still today these people who have this experience in the state service and who could really do it if not in the next year, but at least in the year after that? And I'm curious, you said there'd always be part of this illegal construction, what can be done to make what we watch on TV and on TV and on shows that really nothing is happening all over the coast, illegal objects on the obvious?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70183	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70184	So let me be perfectly clear in answer to your question, this kind of provision that we have in this law or the provisions that we have in some other laws show the state is not serious. So, I did this illegal construction once, and I was trained to have an illegal construction that was too scary for me, but I was dealing with it because I didn't know how many illegal houses in Croatia and I was dealing with it seriously. One of the lawless builders said it was your fault. You're the state's fault that I'm the lawless builder. I said how and I offended you know when I was younger I was much more vain than today and more offensive, she says because you gave me, you gave me a street with a living name on the street, you gave me a home number, you connected me to everything you needed to join me, and you helped build me, you, the state. And he's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70185	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70186	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak Taritas, we're only talking about numbers here, so we're saying that we've exhibited, then you've been head of the ministry for hundreds of thousands of illegal objects, but we're not talking about what these administrators are in the ministries, which is what these people administrators in the counties, municipalities and cities have exhibited. You have to come to the field to see what crime in the space some people have exhibited. The question of whether they ever stuck to the letter of the law in that whole story, and with that act permanently disrupted the space in some area, specifically for us in Istria at sea. So, you need to separate the statistics from what's really done with legalization on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70187	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70188	Thank you very much for your replica. So, we have on the ground exposed things that when you come in, you stay a little enticed. But we in the field have things that were made according to the building permits as well. For that sort of thing, someone was doing paperwork and someone was doing some kind of illegal project. So, what is the characteristic of illegal construction in Croatia? It's not as characteristic as in some countries, let's say South America's poor construction, we have both illegal construction and legal construction of about the same quality, and from the looks of it, I've seen the houses that got the building permit, got all the approvals and you freeze the same thing when you see them. So that's not an argument, but in these 15,900 how many buildings there are that can't be legalized at all and can't be legalised and that are made beyond the deadline of 21 June 2011. That's what the ministry should analyse and finally tell us what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70189	Thank you. The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70190	Thank you. Comrade Dark Taritash, these last words of yours are on the trail of what I wanted to ask you, and I asked the Secretary of State. So when we're talking about 15,900 temporary solutions, I don't know what percentage this applies to lawless builders because the secretary of state hasn't told us, and yet we don't know what's going to happen at the moment if part of these illegal builders gets a refutable legalisation solution, and they've invested in such spaces for years. Does this result in any new disputes against the ministries, according to this state? What are we doing here?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70191	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70192	Hence, temporary solutions are issued by the competent authorities on the basis of the fact that someone has brought in the paper on which the request is submitted, the paper. Please legalize my real estate at number two. This and that, along with this request, has not been submitted to the documentation, has not even been examined and no one has established whether it is something that was done by 21 June 2011 or something that was made in 2017. So, in 2017, someone could make an illegal beautiful villa even if it looked great, handed over a request for legalisation could be taught by June 30, 2018, and the ministry issued a temporary solution. And everybody knows that the house that was built in 2017 and everybody's staring at it, the state is staring at it. So, if it came to me, there was a ministry. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70193	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70194	Honorable MPs. I answered the line not because you said something wrong, but because I agree with you first and foremost, and secondly, that you and I have already talked about both the cataster and the facilities and the legalization. Since you're coming from that resistor, I'd like to ask you here to make it clear and loud in front of everyone, who should be strained by ears, who should be awakened by officials, what institutions, what agencies should be launched to solve these problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70195	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70196	It seems that the most difficult thing to sit at the table and talk about, and I even understand when it's hard to sit at the table to talk if they don't understand two hills, the president and the prime minister, but let someone explain to me why it's hard to sit at the table of tourism ministers and the minister of spatial planning, construction and state property, and say to me, let my people do it, don't let the Minister of Tourism say so you make me issue temporary solutions, and I won't know tomorrow that it will become a permanent solution. Let's see that's done. So, legalizing people can work, they can make solutions, they know how to do it. So we had a contract, so the state, but also certain cities and counties had a contract for people who only did it. There are e-solvings, there's everything, there's only one thing to want. I have a feeling that someone doesn't want someone to answer to be like this, even the Ministry of Tourism should be fair and say, in Croatia we want illegal facilities used for catering. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70197	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to a respected representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70198	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. About a law that has several amendments which I have praised, but actually opens up a more complex problem for Croatian society. So first there are some expectations regarding tourism in 2022. because indeed and according to different forecasts, and forecasts are also one of the basic tools for studying what the tourist season will be, what about tourism in 2022. So the World Tourism Organisation, as well as the various private ones, say divers, the frameworks dealing with tourism development, thus predict one great uncertainty, one great instability, and probably predict a wide use of either covid passports or technology that is related to the danger and prevention of the dangers of covid. They also predict similar trends in 2021, so this is important for Croatia, probably again the Charter as a winner, probably fairies, lonely houses as winners and raise the question of third-generation tourism or the third-generation life. Unfortunately, I don't see what I'm particularly sorry about because there is a good minister in their government, Antun Kleman, I don't see in principle that the current government, former minister, apologize that the current government has specific programmes or projects that would at least have several solutions, b or c, that Croatia will behave in the next period, and we all know that by telling some macroeconomic indicators that almost 20% of GDP, and calculate that, namely, some 80 billion kuna actually comes directly from tourism plus some indirect distributions, that amount becomes safe and higher. But let's go back to this law now. So, of course, it is shown here as an indicator of a large number of buildings that have not yet completed legalization jobs, and that actually comes down to you all unfortunately to our Croatian society. We may go with someone as good as the Law on Legalization, and in the end it is simply left to the verse. And what's going on? It happens that no one controls whether the underline line, if the line is drawn, and the people all of us, we all keep building, still building, and not paying for municipal contributions, will continue to do so. So without any sharper lines that we said ourselves okay, what was built, the space was devastated, I agree with you here, but let's just underline the line at last. So, all after that date who doesn't work according to the regulations that bagger ball crashes because the other, the other doesn't have it all going round and round. So this is also shown as one of the key problems of why the amendments and additions of this law are being made. The other thing that's good, so it's ending this article. No. 3. to therefore provide services from half boards and pensions within 15 km of road line, actually that is good, it probably shouldn't have written in law, that's my opinion. And the third part of you is that all of these specific forms of tourism, so let's call it different forms of agrotourism actually require one thematic debate on the Committee on Tourism and probably here in the assembly, so that finally defines what the Household Activity Act is worth, which is subject to the Household Service Regulation because it's always becoming a big one I'm still going to say like that... That's it, thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70199	We have several replicas, the first respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70200	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we have found that we have a problem with excessively issuing temporary solutions or by extending its duration for de facto illegal facilities. We also found that there are illegal objects that don't even have this temporary solution. The fact is that this is the cause of the dissatisfaction of the Ministry of Construction which forced the Ministry of Tourism to issue such temporary solutions for illegal buildings. Now no one has considered the fact that because of this covid pandemic, the state releases all those who pay the residence fee for, say, 50%, releases them to the burden of whom, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And we said these illegal facilities for use in commercial tourism are built by those who have money, so it's all going to the burden of those who don't have money again, so they're going to contribute with their budget money to this illegality and to the pile of money of those who already have that money in a way that they can free them and the residence fees. Please comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70201	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70202	Yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean, look, it's a complex, complex problem, but you've detected it well, so it's also such a bit of a weird story if the person did everything by the book, paid the communal contribution, so which, of course, was in... Areas much bigger than in continental areas, now she's paid for it, I have no idea 150-200,000 kuna, then legalization came, and then those who legalized similar buildings that they didn't build and paid for it have no idea 10,000 kuna. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one problem that's just what just didn't get you into an equal position, so that's what you should have thought about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70203	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70204	Comrade Hajdash Doncic, you said you didn't recognize the strategies at this time of government this for, for the future season of 2022. I would really like to draw attention that the government has done very much in this whole story, so we have support for the employees of tourism, we have remained in good condition with employees to provide services in 2021, which will therefore certainly continue for 2022. This is very important in tourism when there is continuity that it does not go to other places to stay in the place of providing services. Secondly, we had an excellent action by the tourism ministry "Safe stays in Croatia" which showed extremely good results and will continue. The split of our population today in the eyes of emitting markets is very important, so the government is doing what is best to sensitize the public, to sensitize the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to take this step in vaccination and it will be the best, best advertising and best strategy for 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70205	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70206	Dear colleague Kleman, you said we had, we had, we had. Yeah, we did, but I didn't notice that we had 2022, so I'm not saying that we didn't have, not just, let me say, and on the other hand, I'm saying that the biggest challenge is actually the fact that there's actually this strategy of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry... In fact, it's kind of shooting at me, so too few people have been vaccinated so far, you see what the numbers are today, which were 4000 yesterday, 6000 and actually what I'm seriously concerned about in general about the state that's going to be in Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70207	Your Honor, Agent Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70208	Thank you very much, dear representative Hajdash Dojcic. We all agree that tourism is an important branch of the economy for this to be a complex system in tourism, we need to preserve space and preserve the environment. Until the end is not yet a complex system in the very economic branch of tourism, we all know that we have been devastated, we in Istria know very well, which means our environment has been damaged and now the state has passed since the date that Mrsak Taritash told us for 10 years already, since the 2021 state does not have obvious tools or enough people to do this, but regional or local administration at least in Istria has offered to help with that. Construction inspections, other things proved to be good at issuing building permits when it was accelerated, so if there was a good example, do you agree that this is one of the ways for local and regional self-government to be there to subport the state and finally solve this problem in space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70209	Dear Representative Sinisha Hajdash Doncic
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70210	Comrade Daus, with this last piece, I agree with you. I think that regional self-government where there is capacity needs to take over a certain part of the job from the state because it's faster efficient, and it actually knows its space better than the centralized state. I'll just give you, don't be offended by one note, so methodological tourism is not an economic branch, it's an amalgam of the economic branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70211	Dear Representative Anton Kleman will speak now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, here is what I would like to highlight a few things that I have had in the exhibition, and that is what my colleague, Daus, has pointed out, and that is what we all on the Istrian peninsula are extremely concerned about, and it is a major mess in the space that is happening to us despite the fact that he has finished the official legalization process in the Republic of Croatia. We're facing in our space especially in the coast, slightly less in the middle of Istria with one furious to say wild construction. Here's my colleague Ahmetovic, she's definitely telling the truth. At all, no one prefers to buy a plot of 200, 300 square meters, 400 square square meters and build on it in a short time a building that broke space first, the other entering a gray or black zone of renting and doing no competitiveness in tourism, and the third leaving one bitter taste in the mouth to all those who acted in accordance with the law when they asked for their building permits, when they did what every loyal citizen of this country had to do, and that is to stick to the law, to do whatever the law requires of us in connection with construction, and hence, if they wanted to deal with hospitality then and all to study all the permits according to the law. That's one big problem. We've gone slowly into action in Istria, and here we are with colleagues from IDS, so we're trying to find solutions with the government of the Republic of Croatia to end this monster and I'd say we're on a good track. We now had a proposal for a law on agricultural land where we agreed with the Minister of Agriculture one article in this law where agricultural land was state-owned, either privately can therefore not pitch less than one hectare, so I think we'll create a prerequisite not to pitch 400, 500 square squares, and that's already one warning sign because it's already intended to know what will be done on these plots especially in the coastal area. We also talk intensively about the application of this article in the Law on Forests where we also have an identical problem and I hope that we will be able to find understanding in the Ministry of Agriculture and that we will also apply such legislation in the Law on Forests, which is announced for the first quarter of next year. But we also talked to a number of RS institutions in the first row at the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and at the State Inspectorate that what we have heard many times today, we try to try the powers of building inspectors in a large part to bring down the communal monks living in that space, who know this space well so that we can react as much as possible, faster and more effectively to these phenomena in space. I think that's the key to prevention. Normally, it is a process with which several laws must be amended, so the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on the State Inspectorate, etc., but it is all a small effort in relation to what we can get, and that is to stop that phenomenon that really bothers us in Istria in particular. And I'd say that he's torturing other citizens of ours, and I'd say especially the leaders of the local self-government units of cities and municipalities at sea, because that's the phenomenon that's happening since Umag, and I'd say to Dubrovnik. No one's spared it, the islands too. So we must find the strength to put an end to it all together because what we said and several times, in 1991, Croatia stood on the bumper of its homeland because it wanted to protect space. So that's, space is part of one, an inseparable part of statehood. I think we're at a point where we really need to protect this space so I'm not going to say as dramatic as the ninth year, but we're not far from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70213	We've got more replicas. She's the first respected representative of Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70214	Dear colleague Kliman, here's the issue of illegal construction all morning and the topic is tourism, so here's a question for you as former Minister of Tourism and members of the ruling party. Why we still don't have a tourism development strategy and a national plan where it's stuck and when we can expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70215	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70216	My colleague Nemett, I am not the Minister of Tourism. So, formerly I'm fine you said. I know that the Ministry is dealing with the strategy and we hope to get a look at it as soon as possible. I'm sure since I know what people are doing to work thoroughly, that they're working seriously, and I hope that this strategy will have a good life to live on. However, I must tell you that all the strategies of this world could not predict the Covid crisis. So everything falls into your water a year, two of what you predicted. So the question is, what's the starting position and the starting position of the one that comes into this kind of big crisis like these crises with Covid? So, strategy yes. We have to have our own goal, but we do live in turbulent times, and I'm afraid the strategy will be difficult to fully apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70217	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, Kleman, I agree with your debate. I think she was pretty well hit. I'm interested as former tourism minister, do you know maybe these 15 thousand and 900 how this was allocated to regions or counties because we were talking about space to see how much of it is in Istria, how much of it is in Dalmatia or central Croatia? We have no idea how regionally it's been deployed. And what's the total number, is that 10%, 15%? Let's see how much that's really a big problem when it's put on the whole, but that certainly makes one part of the big problem because that's part of what we know is that tourism is 20% of our GDP, that some Mediterranean countries are just doing what they did to themselves and we're actually doing to ourselves competition. I think it's a serious problem, and we saw yesterday that VAT is 56 billion... health care, pension system and everything, so tourism. In fact, he's finally defending everything that was in the budget yesterday so we need to be quite careful... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70219	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70220	Yeah, I don't. So you were probably expecting that answer. I'll say I don't have that information. We didn't even get it in the materials. But to assume it's on the Adriatic coast. So I'm pretty sure he's on the Adriatic coast right now. Doesn't matter where he is. It's not going to be built where it's not attractive. ... How? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The total number of objects that we are now dealing with with this 15 thousand and 900 that we have extended. [[E, we're not going from the bench.]] As many as the total number of objects has been legalized, here's a colleague of Taritash's. 600,000 says it was legalization. Now it's hard to assess it now. But I'm saying there seems to be a large part of it if not the largest part of the 95% of these objects that this extends is on the Adriatic coast. That makes perfect sense because that's the capital of the burgy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70221	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70222	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Kliman, let's be us specifically, plastic bar for the Croatian public. So you have the desert island of Dragon. I've even filed one of my only criminal charges against an anonymous builder. So on a deserted island, someone built a villa with a pool, and around that villa, dear colleagues now had one 8 bungalows. And so everyone knows completely illegally, completely illegally on the desert island of Oruta Zman in the Sibenik archipelago of the villa, a villa with a pool. And what happened? The pussy's done talking, the cat's got his tongue, no one's got anything. So how would you handle it? With which helicopter would we be able to reach the buffer to lower it and to vice all and all these millions, probably 50 million, 60 how much has been invested to disappear and send a message Croatia is a legal and orderly state?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70223	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70224	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Here's a simple one. As the badger brought for the construction, I would bring a buffer with a crash helicopter and a finished story. Plastic and simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70225	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70226	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Kliman here is a debate on legalization of the facilities overshadowed the debate on the Household Activity Act and it makes sense. And why doesn't the state give up on this potential of these 15 thousand 900 tenants who have temporary solutions? Because these are potentials, it's about 80,000 accommodation units. What happened through the biggest project of several governments, legalization? It's a big project of 800 thousand objects. It happened to us that in 2010, we had 900 thousand objects, but those 100,000 tourists in the day. So we were wondering where 200 thousand tourists were sleeping. Today, it came down to a hundred thousand. That's what lies here in these objects. So we're trying to put everyone in the framework of the law and that they're legally paying what they have to pay both the state and the local community. The only point is to help them and the state will do it regardless of the attempt to argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70227	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70228	Yes, I agree with you. It's definitely that intensity, but you'd add one more. As you colleagues know, we still have a lot of these categories that are not covered by this law at all, and these are illegal after legalization. And when you look at that we had a very good season and very fiscalized accounts, so more fiscalized accounts than we had in absolute terms, but also by the number of therefore fiscalized accounts than we had in 2019, and we say that we had slightly less registered guests. Where are your guests? It's exactly what you started to say. So these guests are precisely in these facilities that are not yet covered by any legalisation, nor should they ever be because they have missed all deadlines and there will be a great challenge for the state to treat them. If we go another wave of legalization, I think it would be devastating for space and for the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70229	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70230	Thank you. You are very good to articulate your individual debate because I personally believe that Croatian space is as final and as fixed as all spaces. And the space is one of the basics of tourism development, and unfortunately it still happens to us that the southern sides of our islands are also still suitable for illegal construction, it is done, concrete and looks and houses and now there is an even greater trend and these are containers and someone is even hiding them under some.../incomprehensible/... but they are actually containers. So from that discussion of mine and your request to you to comment on that as well. It means that not only Istria, but throughout the entire part of the Maritiv coast, Istria is something else, Croatia is different, we differ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70231	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70232	Yes, but Croatia is different and the laws must be applied in each area, in every inch of the state alike. So, if it were up to me to have a magic wand, I wouldn't have mercy. So about these situations, I definitely wouldn't have mercy. And I'm going to say one more piece of information, and all those who live in those places where such a crazed, lawless building is happening. In 90% of cases, these are foreigners, so 90% of the cases are foreigners, what counterpart Ahmetovic said we have a small number of people who have money for these situations, and foreigners have a little more money, so for illegal construction, they buy these 400, 500 square meters plots, and then without respecting the state or the citizens or the space, they do what they want. So I wouldn't have mercy just for another reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70233	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70234	Thank you. Dear counterpart Kleman, former Minister Kleman, I am truly pleased with your debate and the debate has taken place in one completely different direction which I would personally expect from HDZ and how it was actually intonated by the Secretary of State that this is some good work that is now being done because it is wisely seen in the next season. But I just want to confirm that not only the Search, not just checked, but also the shows of HTV and within the Labyrinth confirm what you're talking about, which is that glazing not on one, but on both eyes led even to the fact that for one of Istria's colleagues, it's something else, but I'm also a witness that in Istria is doing money and you're talking and the foreign people who have that money are not fully respecting the laws because it's obvious that for these authorities possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70235	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70236	Thank you very much. My colleague Matul not to be misunderstood I support this law which is therefore and there is no other tool but precisely and all clubs are more or less supported by this law in this way and it is commendable that it was done and it is not late until, so in time it was done. And this, yes, so HDZ will hear you debates like that. Otherwise, when we talk internally, we talk like that, I've articulated what we're talking about, so there aren't any third or other policies, that's the kind of HDZ policy that it is. So no one stares at the eyes, those phenomena are what they are. Administration should be better set up and seen what can be done in synergy with local self-government and find a solution to protect space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70237	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70238	Dear Representative Kliman, we have heard your experiences regarding illegal construction and temporary solutions in Istria, and we have heard from colleague Mrak Taritash how to make a plastic solution in carrying out a catering activity on an object that will probably never be legal. In Makarska, we have even better examples, we have examples where a Polish house has been legalized and a solution is obtained through the state of conduct, and then immediately overnight it is torn down, a huge villa with a pool built, submitted, normally received a temporary solution to the hosting activity in the household, a request for legalisation was submitted that I do not see any way to legalise it, unless a new circle of legalisation comes in. There is a normal situation then, as Mrs Ahmetovic said, that the City of Makarska has reported to this investor, otherwise a prominent SDP, highly ranked and we never get an answer. And by such an example, Makarska, he is a driver for everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70239	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70240	If unfortunately here's what you described, one of the good ones I'd say is how people come up with such papers. I think the speed and efficiency of the one who issues the legalization solution is the key to the whole story. So quickly, that quickly at the level I do not know who in Makarska issues whether you as a city office have issued this solution. So if you were as a city office issuing a solution, then you could have solved it faster definitely. So this one has solutions, so it needs to be very quick to resolve all these requirements when it comes to the rhythm of resolving these requirements then to situations like this it wasn't, and apparently this man had a certain political impact somewhere that he could have done it, which is unfortunate for this one to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70241	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70242	So here's to solve problems when you report prominent SDPs and HDZs don't react from the island of Krk, so here I am reporting both SDPs and HDZs but HDZ's Andrija Mikulić is doing nothing and is not acting on either side, unfortunately. However, it was not my question to be in this direction, colleague Kleman, I am glad that you pointed out that the problem of foreign citizens is additionally devastating, but what you are in your debate as well as my colleagues completely welcome is the number of tourist inspectors who are squirming in business and are not arriving to do their job. You know very well that this is a problem, that I'm not talking about not treating construction inspectors who don't do their job, so here I am appealing not to mention communal directors like those who are going to solve problems because we in local self-government units can no longer get on with the business of communal directors who are SSS and aren't capacitated or trained to They're doing someone else's job and they're not doing someone else's work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70243	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70244	Thank you very much. That you as the head of local self-government live with this problem daily and I understand absolutely, but here's the problem you've detected, and that's that there's not enough inspector on the ground, and there's even less of them I have to tell you construction. So, with this growing illegal construction, these people would not even be able to react to the situation. So I think that, in synergy with local self-government, in synergy with local self-government, I repeat, we should find a way to detect where something is done, to share responsibilities at levels which, therefore, the middle expert prepares can detect which law, as a future law, someone who could give this authority and in synergy with the state inspector, solve this problem. So, not only the local self-government unit, and we're aware that the state inspectorate alone won't be able to handle all these, all those problems. There's just too many of them. And people are too small. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70245	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70246	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kleman, we agree on a lot of things here, and your debate was perfectly fine, and I think we have this one road together and we have to do it. We come both from Istria and we know what problems we have, if we continue at this rate of illegal construction we are no longer desirable, nor an attractive destination, we will be some industrial concreteized story that no one will ever want again. I hope that's not what I believe. What exactly 90% of foreigners pointed out is actually illegally building. I would even dare say, at least some of the commissioners told me that the domicile population is in fact still a few percent more likely Croatian investors in the area. The only purpose is to prevent this illegal construction, all other things are stories that don't make sense and end that illegal competition. And what my colleague Ahmetovic said, perhaps not the communal directors, because they really can't, but let's cities, the county's ready to co-finance, help with building inspectors. Let's put that down. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70247	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70248	Yes, thank you. Here, I urge you to continue to cooperate precisely on solving this problem. As far as Istria is concerned, I think that all MPs from their midst, from their counties, should cooperate regardless of the political party on the issue because it is a common problem that exceeds this political platform. Yes, I agree with you that the foreigners are the ones who are building, but I will warn you one thing, definitely domestically selling their country. So we don't have just about that ultimate executioner of that misdeed, but if someone sells a 10,000 square-square plot of 400 square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-s. And that doesn't work, neither does the Slovenian, neither does this Austrian, but our man who solved his questions does. And for whatever reason, we went to this pitch ban up to 1 hectare. Let's calm it down a little bit to create the conditions that it doesn't happen. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70249	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Agent Kleman, you spoke of the value of space and that we should treat the space with the flaw of a good master and, in fact, of the problems that are happening in Istria. All I have to do is do one kind of depression so that there are those phenomena where there are investors who should be the first to follow the law because they are in responsible political positions, and they are exactly acting the opposite of that, so it's not just the foreigners that are the problem. I think the building inspection should contain the illegal construction at the very beginning. And in order to do that, I agree with you to support local self-government because every mayor, mayor and their field service knows when something is going on and it needs to be checked because when a huge house, villa or some object is built, then all these reactions are too late and trying to fix something that is incorrigible. That is why I support this initiative to move through legal changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70251	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70252	Here's thank you very much for your support, this one that we will try to continue living dialogue with the ministries, so those who need to make a proposal for this solution, but here I call on you colleagues, we are in the same club, so you can join this initiative so that we don't tell you the pressure, but a good, good vibe about really getting there as soon as possible to solve this problem because there's no time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70253	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70254	Dear counterpart Kliman, there is only one question now, do we want to reduce the tourist capacity to break this up or leave them for a while, and we know that we lack accommodation facilities. Maybe we were wrong at the moment when we were doing legalization, maybe we should have made it as simpler as, say, Hungarians, take, take the ground floor surface, 1,000 kunas legalize it and say it from that day forward, a little cartoon, but, from that day on, there is no more illegal building anything that is being built and we're going to crash. Because today there's a technology that recognizes faces every day can blink on a map where something was built that wasn't supposed to be. And it's very easy to control it if we want to. But obviously we don't want to. Which is why I'm not getting into it right now. But here I repeat, or we'll leave the accommodations for next year or we won't, it's just a question right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70255	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70256	So accommodation facilities that certainly, but those who are, who have a solution to work. So I would disagree with you if we should now in some way put in the number of our beds and our potential offers of illegal facilities. So we have illegal construction, illegal buildings, we have objects that are now in the legalization process, we have legalized objects. And those who are in the legalisation process that is these 15,900 which, therefore, which we have now extended this work permit to 2024, is the official part, part of these capacities, those who have been exposed that is the official part of our capacities that have applied for the performance of the activity, but there is also this category that exists, are illegal and should never again get this legalisation solution because they have come out of all the frameworks. And it didn't have the number of beds And that's what unfair competition does in the gray zone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70257	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70258	Thank you very much. My friend Kleman, I'm too short a minute, but I'll try, so you finally said in this answer, we don't know in these 15,900 temporary solutions how many of those who will never be able to get their legalisation solution because they worked beyond 21 June 2011, so the ministry had to do it so that at least you could finish that story. Is this how the message that's being sent is, look, you've been building it, you'll have a temporary solution, and we'll sort it out somehow. When it comes to illegal construction, it's not even since yesterday, it's not easy to solve, but it's not easy to build and destroy when the house is finished, it's something that is really not, which is very, very difficult, and it's not easy. But when the house is in the ground, so you can crash very simply you just need to want to. They used to be construction scouts, when some cement drove to the plot he had to show. A building permit, so we know that the question is whether or not we want to. [[Thank you. Dear Representative Kleman.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70259	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70260	Comrade Dark Taritash, yes, I only agree when a cement was brought in in those years to some before, one or two houses were built in the area. Today, when you come to some areas, it's like making hotel settlements or apartment settlements. I disagree with you. So when someone makes a conscious violation of the law house and now they say now we're going to find a body in the state administration that's going to be a lot of mercy and they're going to say come on, we're going to leave it to him and we're going to expose it, so to that kind of emotion, I wouldn't fall for it to ask myself. After all those legalization calls, so to build after the deadlines of legalization, you have those in Istria today, I'd say a few thousand of what they're doing. And I believe they're waiting for just such a compassionate act or a state or someone who can stop that building and that tomorrow they'll be exposed to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70261	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70262	There's something else I'd like to add...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70263	He will now speak to the esteemed representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70264	Mr. Reiner's esteemed Vice President, Mr. Bukarica, the esteemed secretary of state with his associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd say I'm in some kind of discretion, so on the one hand, the fact is we have 15,900 objects that haven't legalized their building, they don't have solved property relations. We listened here today during the morning to really debate, these are living people, families, our fellow citizens who don't feed just their own, but also full of a significant state budget. But on the other hand, we who state have a problem because we have a problem, pretty much. The illegal construction doesn't stop, it's spreading like a virus in our homeland, it's disrupting the devastation of space, it's building by the sea, it's building villas with pools on the desert islands. So, I used to say in replicas you have an example of Oruta, the Dalmatians call it Dragon, it was an intact island, nature, stone, sea, sun, you come with a boat, you dive a rock a little bit in your breath, pay a natural fee, so you can fish, a lot of octopus, a lot of brazens, orbs, all of a sudden in two years a buffet villa, a villa, you understand as if in some code you're reading Hans Christian Andersen like it happened overnight a puff stick, a villa and it's a villa of some satellites, panels, solars, a pool of eight metrics. Now I'm creeping around while I'm saying this, maybe it's funny a little bit, but a man doesn't know, maybe we'd better laugh than cry. The villa, and the waterfront 15m confused, so it takes four construction firms to do it, man, so it's not, so I can't do it two from the Prvic port to come and confuse something down. Who did this? Who's responsible for this? So, people, if we let it go, then what will our country turn into? So, scary, I don't even know where I'm gonna try to focus anymore. Real estates can be legalized by 2011, but I said they're still being built today. How's that gonna work out, take care of it? We had two legalization deadlines we heard in June 2018 is the last deadline. For years, the Ministry of Space Planning has not solved the permits, not enough communication between the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, so if someone wants to solve a problem, how much do you need a friend? Is it 100 years? If we say Croatia's state will solve in 150 years something that Austria-Hungarian has solved in two weeks. But it takes another 150 years, so that's what we're gonna do. Let's go so I'm in, let's go for, so we'll know in 150 years our children's children's children will have arranged Croatia. Amen, hallelujah, amen hallelujah, but let's go like that, we paint each other's eyes here, we talk fairy tales, and we pass on to the next power, the next one solves, our own how, chestnut hoo-hoo-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o. Well, we're not dealing with it. So I don't see the will to solve this problem. Let's be brave, everyone who illegally built did not legalize their building, and now in it performs catering activity has a privileged position on the catering market because he did not have the same costs as that legal, orderly caterer who has a permanent solution to his activities. So someone who's had a fair deal of trouble and a hard time working, investing, spending, waiting for red tape, coming in late years, here's what I've done, and Baja comes in and you understand sales, construction, and making money. In this sense, this law does not respect our constitutional commitment that all entrepreneurs on the market must have equal conditions and equal opportunities, but let it be the responsibility of a government that has to solve problems, not to transfer them to another government and I don't know who else. My colleague Anka said that I was thinking full of how I would do it, I think I'm a logicist, so this is how I would take advantage of the benefits and the charges, so I'd give everyone who's a neat, legal caterer, and the others wouldn't mean all the trouble they've got but they'd put more pressure on them, and then you'd give it a try on your friend, let's try it. So this my proposal is a different positive logic as this law should have been written, not just to establish illegality and to encourage legal unrest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70265	We have more replicas, she is the right of a respected representative, Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70266	I'm personally against any devastation, and especially the protected parts of our country, and so are the islands. You mentioned the island of Zmajan, you mentioned an object that was built there, so that's where you were coming in, and you know what's going on there, did you get interested in who owns that facility, did you report it, did the inspection come in, did something take action, what steps have been taken, what are the results of all this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70267	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70268	A fellow Pavic might be wrong, like this on the first one I'd say I'm a pacifist, peaceful that I am whether or not, but I'm persistent to the end. I filed a criminal report and I won't let them breathe. So, I won't, if I don't give up, so I'm not giving up, I'm sleeping quietly, and I'm really not going to let them breathe until that problem is solved until this problem is solved. So far, the DORH crew says it's in the process, and we know that in our country, I don't know until my kids retire, I'll make sure they get rid of it sooner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70269	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70270	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Dear colleague Miletic, I absolutely agree with your debate and I think that through the way you presented this emotionally, you seem to care. [[Intruder: Only the main state of Boricu.]] And that is, for every praise, but the problem is that those who listen to you and who in the executive government don't care. After your appearance that no one from the executive authority reacts to you as a parliamentary representative we'll check out, tomorrow we'll go out, we'll press conference on that, that you care more than those who have the instruments to check it out, so he says you're right, you're wrong, etc., that's what's worrying. That you care more than those who have the instruments to implement it and react very quickly to your emotional performance that is completely correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70271	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70272	A fellow Lalovec says Peterson's little victim, a small success, a great victim of great success, and I really believe it, and I don't care what the team laughs about. If people had looked back at those who laughed at them, they would have thrown stones from the left and the right, and what they would have done in life. So, you have a goal to go towards, and I'm interested, so neither these nor them, my own mother, I don't care when I go towards the goal. And the goal is clear, I was chosen by the Croatian people from the 8th electoral unit to come here and not to give up and to tell the truth and to fight as hard as I can in my limitations and in my smallness, not to give up. And when someone calls me and says there's a problem, I'll give it all to try to sensitize, convince the responsible to get rid of it. Now, if I'm gonna make it, I don't know, but it's not on me, but I'm gonna burn it to the end to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70273	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Minister Miletic fully agrees with you in your full presentation, especially in that part of the unequal treatment of entrepreneurship in Croatia where one who works against the law makes it possible and encourages them to further such activity, while on the other hand we have people who are fairly paying for all the necessary deals. Well, I'd only ask you for, to end up telling me if you agree that the verb to steal in Croatian is replaced by a syntagma is a good thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70275	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70276	When the wound is full of manure then you need to take a scalpel to clean it, disinfect it, but you need to clean it up and it's always a painful process. And I think that as a Croatian people and finally here's a colleague of Lalovac, what we're going through is a marathon. So, I speak here of course to all my colleagues and ruling and opposition, but I speak primarily to the Croatian people. So, I want people to wake up and go to the polls, I want 85% turnout in the election. You're dreaming Marine, okay. I want 85%, so let them choose which goddess to rule Croatia, but then the legitimacy is complete in every way, and I'm a legalist, and this is my prime minister, no matter how many people choose him, what we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70277	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70278	So, in life and in the work you do, you just have to decide whether or not you want to. Among other things, when talking about illegal construction, illegal construction needs to be cut into roots. It means when a man starts building, it's the easiest to remove it, the easiest to take down, and we're a small country, and when you go down in Istria, it's known both in Dalmatia and Slavonia, and there's no other way than to go through that method. But things can be very simple to solve. We were even at one point negotiated, you can rent on satellites that in 24 hours 2 pass over Croatia and you can get pictures in real time who bought construction material and put on the plot, who started working. This may have an inspection and inspection should take effect immediately. But when the house is finished, when the house is moved in, when the house is not built overnight, so the house is built for a year only needs to be desired.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70279	Thank you. Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70280	So I really think that we must all work on our own responsibility, on the responsibilities of the law, on law enforcement. Responsibilities under each law according to their own word, according to the written word, etc. So, I'm impressed by my colleague Kleman, so he's thrilled. So I know there are really good and decent people in the ruling party and I never like to generalize, ever. So for my colleague Kleman, I've heard before that he's a decent man. So, the manager said the manager, the manager and the destroyers are picking everything, everything, I don't care who the Russian, the spaceman, the mafia, the underworld, the underground, the crashes take down the buffer and all the hikes, and then I'd ask you who would invest 70, 80 million and then build an illegal villa on a desert island when he knows that in Istria and in the middle of Croatia, we're destroying everything that's wrong. Well, no one would, they'd say, "The lunatics, the Croats, they stick to the law, which you can't do without paper, nothing."
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70281	Thank you very much. He will now speak to the esteemed representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70282	Thank you, well-respected vice president, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, my view of Croatian tourism is neither dark nor those first few debates on behalf of clubs that were some kind of catastrophic, black and all bad and we can all find an example either in our own environment or in some other and based perception in Croatia is all the same as the one example we found. It's not like that. We who have been in politics have been following the efforts that the countries have been doing since 2006, when they were all stalling on the apartmentization of the Croatian coast. So let's remember the Regulation on the Protected Coast Belt, then the drawn lines 100 meters, 70 meters, kilometers, and then the construction areas that can't be done, and then the stories when we talk about economic activity and small tenants who will report to the neighbor why he has more and I less, he has fewer accommodation units and I more and so on, so we've introduced a flat tax on every accommodation unit equally some local self-government tells everyone at the end how much it is worth and made it easier to do business with inspections and really there are no excessive requirements in front of private accommodation. Whoever's doing this knows what it is. There are those who run away from those smallest demands. And the team should in some way say that there's a time when it'll stop. These and this debate, which stemmed from the legalisation of the completely wrong preambles that were put into debate, had it not been for these 15,900 figures in this law, this debate would have probably already been over. But, well, someone signed in to 15,900, and we got that from our tourism offices, picked up the county and then what we did was transfer everything right to the state, so we put in the agency that was abolished two years ago and we say the state is and the Ministry of Construction is the worst in Croatia. To deal with politicizing this story. And it's not like that. Legalisation of illegal facilities in Croatia is one of the most demanding projects the state has embarked on. Although we know that 80% of our facilities were not in whole, but some in the small part were illegal, for ten years this has been resolved. Eight hundred thousand items of a million and a hundred thousand households we know to have or objects that aren't 80% less. If we were all illegal in some period, and now we say we're just going to sort it out, first the Regulation stops the apartmentization, excessive apartmentization, and then it lowers the local level to take care of it, and then the state reacts in many segments to arrange a private rental space that is one of the rites of our tourism that is not in this form in Europe. And it had no potential, it was 50% Croatian tourism. Private accommodation has over 500 thousand accommodation units, hotels, campsites, hostels and everyone else over 500 thousand. It means about a million and fifty thousand. And that's why what I said in 2010 we have 900 thousand accommodation units in the Republic of Croatia in total, today 150 thousand more, where it grew exclusively on private accommodation. As legalization went, the illegal accommodation units that existed became legal and part of the system, and today they pay neatly like everyone else. What does the state say through this law? And these 15,900 we want in this system, we don't want to stop you, so you have a temporary solution because they have been doing this activity, but then the inspectorate would come, pick up all the items that were legalized or tried legalisation, and charge everyone the fine, and they knew exactly where to come and people paid the fine, why, because it was easier to give him 10 thousand and earned 30 at that part of an illegal facility not to talk about the whole, but to houses that were neat on two floors, but someone added a third floor or a attic, etc., and became illegal it wasn't always illegal, but were upgraded to those houses over the years and years of work, and they were the potential of Croatian tourism. These 70 or 80 grand I estimate accommodation units are almost 10% of our tourism and we can't throw them away. Let's give them that deadline, but they can't give up on themselves because the state doesn't give up and the word doesn't care anymore. I'm still three years old. No, you go ahead and solve your problem and get into the legal system and everything will be fine, everyone will be easier both to you and the state. It's a message from this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70283	Thank you. You have replicas. He's the first respected representative of Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Boris, technically a clear question, I see that you have actually said that what I asked Mr. Kleman is that the data was collected after the counties of these 15,900 and therefore my question would be whether we have these data in the counties, is that, it was not a trick question, but rather that we get some, you've offered me with this debate that it was still collected in the counties of some of these numbers, and that perhaps the Ministry of Tourism is doing so, and I've asked the question of how many total objects, you mentioned that it was some 900 thousand, so another 200 that we have about a million and a hundred thousand, if these 15 thousand are trying to get how many out of the total mass, is that if it's 15,900 to the total of those millions, and then it's one and a half percent, then it's not it's not that, I's trying to get a total picture picture by the county, so here to point of some kind of some kind of some kind of some kind of distribution, so here to point, and here you might say this answer this answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70285	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70286	Thank you. I'm going to try to deministrate another story here that's spread today from my colleague Mrak. We founded the agency then she as the minister to solve the problems and you were the minister and then that agency solved something annually. What'd she solve? They took a total of 145,000 items, and they solved 76,000 of them, and the rest gave back or rejected objects or people gave up, and the surplus when it was shut down in 2019 with 1.7 were returned to the county offices. There's no responsibility of the Department of Construction anymore. He's here at the county offices. County offices rebelled when the agency was founded, you know that because they thought they had the capacity to handle legalization. And now after a few years we've given it back to them to solve it, and they're handling it. What's the problem here? The problem is unresolved property legal relations, as well as, unfortunately, the earthquake of the destroyed areas of Banovina and here when we had to change the same law precisely because of these similar situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70287	Thank you. Dear Representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague. You have seen a major problem in your presentation, which is the publication of 15,900 illegal objects, and no, I would say, which is 15,900 illegal objects. I totally agree with my colleague, Lalovec, that you need to see a complete picture of illegality in order to assess how much it is, but I'd say it's even 1% too much. In this jungle of illegal construction, which we have witnessed this summer, with numerous inscriptions and I think you will agree that the space in Croatia is really too valuable to destroy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70289	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70290	Thank you very much. My colleague, illegal construction today is a felony and everyone knows who's building it. I don't believe in these big stories that now it's about tens of thousands of objects. There are obvious spaces, as stated by counterpart Kliman in Istria, where in an area, which is not built, on the farm they are trying to illegally build the facilities that someone has sold. In the construction area, you have every basis for obtaining a building permit. Why would you build illegally if you had every option? The problem is out of those areas. And there are local self-governments in their jurisdiction to prevent possible things. Why don't they do it? Doesn't the state do something right? It's on the inspectorate to arrange, how to solve it and how to edit it. If they count on someone legalizing it or putting it in the construction area in ten years and sending it all away, it won't be power. We know what the Law on Legalization says and what is the end date when the orthophoto card is taken and what can be legalized and what cannot be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70291	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, we will agree that the illegal action is neither acceptable nor a normal phenomenon here we cannot justify in any way. I understand your appeal that what is already illegal in space and tourism functions is legalized, placed in the frameworks of the law and in some way used properly, but that in the future any attempts of illegal construction are prevented, I think we can agree on that. This law regulates the issue of offering breakfast under the same conditions for all tenants, so I would like to ask you, here you come from the island of Rab, you know the opportunities on the ground, when the breakfast offered will finally be Croatian breakfast, the one produced by Croatian farmers, Croatian food on the Croatian table in Croatian tourism?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70293	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70294	Thank you very much. As far as this last part is concerned, colleagues of Petir means half board, full of pensions, which in some way abolishes a provision that was neither controlled nor expendable on the ground because you can give breakfast or full board only in the facility if some other object of catering activity is 15km away. There are small environments, and these distances are too large and I don't believe that these objects have much or too much. You must have conditions to provide such services. And today, unfortunately, the apartment is the biggest offer we offer in tourism when we talk about private accommodation. And there's no breakfast here. Now when will it be Croatian? The moment we manage to first resolve the question of those who want to give that breakfast in such a way that it can also be charged without being overpriced and not being competitive with the hotel that will charge it in a completely different way. And that's the problem with us. Costs that require this compared to what you can charge. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70295	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70296	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor. You are neither emotional nor theatrical as your colleague Miletic, but you are rational and that is good because you have worked long in tourism. Here, what interests me, we have construction land, we have agricultural land and it's quite different to legalize a building here in this building land than the one that was illegally built in agricultural land. These are dramatic differences, but we also have to do everything possible to solve the market as soon as possible because we cannot allow those who have the facilities that have upgraded them to rent them to tourists, and later they do not pay any pausal to the state. It certainly is not a good incentive to make order in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70297	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70298	Thank you very much. My colleague Simičević, meaning when we talk about agricultural or construction areas, I come to you from a small municipality and there is no lawless construction with me in that part that someone enters agricultural land and builds a building. It is probably individual points in Istria, and the mayors of Rovinj rightly, I think Vodnjana also warned about the situation. Someone's here, someone's selling, buying, we're putting houses... at our place, I can't say that's what we have. That's why lawless construction is a felony. Before the law on illegal legalized buildings there was a Construction Act as it is today, and according to that law, objects were legalized. So all that is now being built can probably be legalized under that law, if you haven't been able to give it up until the sixth month of 2011 when we said that the last day when you can say that your subject is valid and will be considered. But there's a construction law. Now what's local self-government gonna do? Will she expand the construction area? Because without a construction area, there's no legalization. It's on them. As it is on... Countys to solve these problems, but citizens can't give up on themselves and on the order they want, if they've already made a request. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] It's our message and our wish... [[Intruder Željko Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70299	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Katica Glamuzine, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70300	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Glava, colleagues and colleagues. These changes, therefore, are there to remove some obstacles faced by the caterers, and to enable some new services to private owners and let's say that nothing is controversial, but what's interesting is why these changes should have happened. Private owners, therefore, are now no longer limited to the existence of a catering facility within a 15km radius, but can offer their guests breakfast with full and half board services. And why is that? Because that's what the European Union said. Because it would be a different violation of an EU directive. Therefore, Directive 2006/123 EC states in its Article 15(2)a that a minimum geographical distance between service providers cannot be imposed. The directive was adopted in December 2006. Croatia joined the Union in 2013, and the last amendment to this Act was made in November 2018 when this restrictive Regulation was introduced into the Law. So we could have known what the directives were in force and when this amendment was introduced into our Law, which means either we didn't check whether our amendments to the law were in accordance with EU directives or we checked, we knew, but we didn't care. And now we're in a position to be warned and that we need to remove this restriction from maltenes by force. So the intensity may be good, but the reasons and methodology are a little questionable. When we talk about catering facilities and extending the time limits of temporary solutions, the basis of which meets the minimum technical conditions, again I say, maybe it's good to do this, but I'm asking why is it necessary? There are more reasons why a facility cannot obtain a useful permit based on minimum technical conditions, but we have focused most here on the problem of these unresolved and submitted legalisation and barata requirements, as we have heard, with a figure of 15 900 at the country level. But as already pointed out, we are not dealing with the information whether all these requirements are properly submitted with complete documentation or some of them are submitted although it is known that because of various obstacles they cannot obtain a positive solution, but it is known, while the disorder of the government can be obtained at least a temporary solution based on which the object can work, obviously for many years. The excuse we had the opportunity to hear, the excuse we had the opportunity to hear, is about how to solve these legalization cases, where cities and counties were supposed to do so, so where they are not, the Agency which was closed in 2019 and a small number of cases that remained to the cities and county. And now, fellow Kliman, if he's still here, he answered, now I don't know how reliable the data is, I believe the colleague knows that most of these items, he said, he said 95% is located on the Adriatic coast. I have information that, let's say, of those counties located on the Adriatic coast of the PGG has solved almost 95% of the total number of its demands, how many outstanding relations to the facilities within which the hosts operate, I haven't had a chance to find out, but there are half of them. So that most of the other 15 900 requests in the Adriatic remained in Lika, Zadar, Sibenik, Split-Dalmatia, Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Well, given that these counties have been ruled by the same party for many years, we have found ourselves in an interesting situation that HDZ is pointing at itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70301	We have a replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70302	Thank you very much. Comrade Glamuzina, you said that now, so we're doing something against ourselves. Why is it hard to understand, meaning that, some items, demands, if it's a day to legalize an illegal building, or part of an illegally built facility, can depend on the will of local self-government, if it touched the terrace, I don't know, public road? Well, taking down the public goods status is somewhere in some municipal council and city, and it's not settled. So it can't parcelerate, so it can't make a full request, it's still going on, it's waiting for a decision. Why are you bringing this down to politics? And 95% is not 100%, if it's SDP County, maybe that 5% right here is in these 15 900. Why didn't the county handle it all the way? Because she's incompetent? It's not like that, and don't politicize it, I keep saying that this is an attempt, once again, that people don't give up on themselves, that the state has the potential and to use it, that everyone has the benefit of it, and the one that will legalize and the state that's going to get what they need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70303	The esteemed representative of Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70304	Thank you. So, I would very much like to see the concrete information that you have said, the tourist community or the Ministry of Tourism Barata, exactly where the county is left. I'll be the first to apologize to you, if it turns out that all the 5% that's left in PGG applies to the very catering facilities, and that's the most, it's very hard for me to believe, if it turns out you're right, I'll apologize to you. Give us the data, we'll compare exactly where they are most, and it's hard for me to understand that the state-run party, which manages state inspectorates, which has ministries, which has counties under its control, cannot in any way influence this problem. It's hard for me to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70305	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70306	Honorable MPs. I agree with you that there are various reasons why legalization has not been completed. However, we must also be aware that the legalisation carried out on the coast and the legalisation carried out in the mainland part of Croatia do not have the same weight. When you legalize an object on the coast, this object is worth 10 times more than 15 times the object on the mainland part of Croatia. Also, if you give someone a temporary work permit, at a catering facility on the coast, its revenues will be far, far greater than the revenues of the property in the Croatian mainland. Therefore, we need to see who, how, and why, goes out to meet and under what conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70307	The esteemed Glamuzine MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70308	I don't think anyone should be given the advantage except in the way that I suggested yesterday to the secretary of state to see where most of these items are, so that it might be tried, the HDZ Ministry through HDZ County comes to resist a little bit more, to invest more in people or in whatever way it is necessary, to finally solve these items where they are most problematic, but I don't think that because who, I don't know now, in some non-tourism place should wait longer just because it's not in an area that is touristic attractive. We need to get rid of them all, but ultimately it's not that big a number, I mean when you divide these 15 900 into the number of counties, into the number of months, I think it should really be relatively easy to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70309	Thank you very much. Now we're going to stop at this point where we've lost a lot of time and talked more about illegal construction than what the Household Activity Act says, but in any case, we're going to take a stand now. We will now return to our point The final bill on amendments to the Law on Hosting Activity, and will now be spoken by the respected representative Anamarija Blažević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70311	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's three of us were listening this morning and we were actually discussing illegal construction. In my opinion, the debate was really good, and I think we're all here somewhere similar. But I'm going to try to get back on the subject a little bit, but we've had a certain time standing by today's law. But I have to look briefly at these temporary solutions that regulate this bill. Discuss who is responsible for this number of 15 thousand 900 temporary solutions, whether they are local or regional administrations and self-government, the Ministry of Spatial Planning or someone third is not a subject like I said, but that doesn't mean we don't have to discuss it. This Ministry of Tourism should therefore do what it can to enable hosts, tenants and other entities to do these amendments to the law. I'm from Slavonia. I don't think we have that problem in any way. Thank God, therefore, we do not have the problems mentioned and brought up by colleagues who come from the coastal part of the Republic of Croatia. We are all aware of how important tourism and hospitality are for the Croatian economy. We also heard the example of Istria by fellow Nemet, and I think Istria should be a guide to the rest of our areas. That is why we need to have clear provisions, guidelines and goals that we want to achieve in tourism. We are aware of our diversity, natural, ordinary and I think we all know that tourism in Croatia can be active throughout the year, not just for certain months of the year. That is why we definitely need reforms, and that is why we have made a commitment to the same and provided funding through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan as the State Secretary has announced and I think that in this reform, the family agricultural economies that have both tourism and hospitality as an additional activity should take a significant place within rural tourism. In 1986, the Council of the European Union has defined rural tourism, and we are only at the beginning of developing the same, especially in Slavonia where people are not used to tourism, but are slowly encouraged, most of them because of the possibility of co-financing their investments from the European Union Funds. Rural tourism is intruding into two of our important sectors. It's agriculture and tourism. Namely, the OPGs have a agricultural activity as a basic, and tourism is their additional activity in accordance with this Act, which we are discussing today, and it must be possible for guests to use food and drink services from their own production and must be common to the end where the family holding is located. The effects of such tourism can be both economic and non-economic. Economics don't need to be listed, I think we all know them. But those non-economic ones are very important to us, because they lead to the restoration and resuscitation of our villages and the preservation of our identity, raises the quality of life in rural areas more than one form of tourism. In order for this form of tourism and our rural destination to be called such, we need to improve certain preconditions. These are certainly legal and legal regulations, i.e. Standard preconditions. I think we should fight for the development of rural tourism and, therefore, in my reply to the Secretary of State, I stressed that these changes will in some way channel tourism towards the OPGs. I am sure there is room in tourism for everyone who wants to deal with it, but through the reforms already mentioned, it is necessary to facilitate administrative procedures for everyone who decides to pursue a tourism enterprise. Croatian tourism I am convinced can be much more competitive and that is what we should all strive to do, everyone from their level to make it so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70312	Thank you. We have two replicas. Honorable representative Vukovac will have it first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70313	Thank you. Dear colleagues here you were just talking about how the OPGs actually must have breakfast available on their OPG, mostly from those foods that they themselves have grown. Is that fair for you compared to all those apartments on the Adriatic that offer breakfast from the local market? Because if we know the situation in the country well, those with rural tourism have parallel and agricultural production and it makes life difficult for them. So I think we should discuss this further whether it's okay or not, whether big differences are made between one and the other and whether, in fact, by abolishing such a provision, it might help our OPGs to make it easier for them to enter the rural tourism segment slowly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70314	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70315	Thank you very much. I think that in this way actually the OPG farmers, you said yourself their primary activity is agriculture, they can actually place their products. So, I think that provision that they don't, they don't have to, so they don't have to have breakfast with the catering like that. But I think it's a good provision not only for breakfast, but for the general preparation of food, drinks from its own cultivation, because I think it's a good provision that there is even though I think it's necessary to regulate maybe even one special law that will concern only such tourism branches, or OPGs that deal with tourism and hospitality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70316	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70317	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, can you comment on me, so one restaurant owner, one restaurant owner has the next problem with VAT taxes 25%, consumption tax 3%, income tax 36%, contribution to pension 15%, health contribution 16.5%, contribution to REGOS 5%, and we have parafiscal charges, communals, chambers, forests, water,... so how? So what can the state do to allow our hosts to create money flow, create? These are huge intrusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70318	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70319	Yes, I agree that the caterers who comply with all the legal rules have huge burdens, and therefore this suspension so that the tenants or that we have one bed and breakfast, let's say it's so good because they don't have to pay, they don't have to have all the legal assumptions of having one restaurant, one catererer. I think there is also a way to go towards and liberate especially parafiscal burdens when we talk about which we are slightly and unnecessary to go in this direction and I think that hospitality and tourism as a single branch in Croatia, the economic branch in Croatia can be far less burdened than it is right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70320	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Jure Brkan will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70321	Dear President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. We're talking about this long and exhaustive debate today, in fact, we've heard a lot of things. We have heard all the pains and illegal construction and legalization, successes and failures of legalization. We heard the latest epidemiological position of Croatia where, as far as the epidemic is concerned, we even heard the mention of Bourbon Street from its greatest fame 20 years ago in Dubrovnik, and all of what we have been saying here today is not an accident, because I believe that it is precisely the point that we are all well aware of what tourism means for our country and how cautiously and wisely we must act in any changes and additions to tourism, in fact today in this case, as regards the amendment of the Law on catering activity. If that were the case, there are the figures that are always ahead of us, and these are the figures of the speeches that we have achieved in the last pre-pandemic year 2019. It looks impressive now with what's more here we've heard the result of this year's... 75% of that success, success or how someone interprets or fails. But certainly the fact is that it's 2019. Croatia visited 19 million tourists, to achieve more than 91 million overnight stays and to earn more than 10 and a half billion euros in tourism. Now, what is important for today's changes and additions to the Household Activity Act, is that out of these 19 million tourists 8 million 135 thousand tourists were staying in rooms, apartments, studio apartments and holiday homes, which largely operate with a permanent or temporary solution to the approval of catering services in the household. We also heard that temporary solutions were issued to those households that applied within the deadline for the launch of the legal process were illegally built buildings. Now, after that, we heard that there are also imaginatives that distort these reliefs, the possibility of legalization, and that they actually have solutions and they work in totally different objects that they have applied for legalization. And we all know that these buildings are very many, a large number of objects are not solved, no wonder then these 15 thousand and 900 temporary solutions and the already extended deadline is now on 31 December 2021. What is normal is to propose an extension of the period of validity of temporary solutions issued to the hosts, owners and family holdings that have not yet reached a solution on the state of play, but have applied within the deadline for the launch of the legal process of illegally built construction, as well as the period of validity of temporary solutions issued to the tenants and family holdings due to the unregulated rights of ownership and usability of the facility, and we now move that deadline on 31 December 2021. We hope that the competent authorities in charge of the law enforcement of illegally built buildings will bring the right judgment to that end, which is legal. Normally, after that decision, the competent authority will also issue a permanent solution to the provision of catering activities, and we also hope that this body will also be able to legalise what cannot be legalised if not, if not, but rather collapses as it causes Mr Miletic to at least some punishment, not so that all of this goes together with a temporary solution to some next legalisation there. The provisions of the applicable Act are also further aligned with the provisions of Directive 2006/123/EC on services on the internal market in such a way that all catering service providers in the household provide only breakfast services to their guests without exception. This is extremely important, because we have just heard that a caterer operating under all regulations is difficult to fight on the market. So why allow someone to make it easier for them to create unfair competition? Therefore, the objective of the amendments in question is to enable the further implementation of the catering activity or the provision of catering services in the household and family holding in facilities for which temporary solutions have been issued by 31 December 2024 at the latest and to align the provisions on the provision of catering services in the household with the provisions of the Directive. All these changes are logical and useful and the HDZ Club and both at the beginning, so here now after the debate is conducted it supports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70322	The Honorable representative Marin Miletic will now speak finally on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70323	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bukarica, a respected state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So we are truly blessed with the land in which we live for a number of reasons, and therefore thank God for our tourism and for having all coincided, that these cubes have coincided, and then the tourist season has been great and helped to fill the budget and eventually that we can all survive more easily. What I would like to say in this exhibition is that Croatian caterers really have big, big burdens. They pay the biggest taxes in Europe, even 90% of wine, beer served to Croatia and which are domestically taxed at a very high rate. If we include the 3% more of the famous consumption of consumption taxes, the total rate is 28%. So, I want citizens who are not caterers and who do not deal with this branch of activity to explain what this means, for example. For one restaurant owner. So that man has to pay the VAT 25%. He has to pay the consumption tax 3% and he has income tax costs 36%. Then there is a contribution to the pension 15%, then there is a contribution to health 16.5%, there is also a contribution to REGOS 5%, and then there is a number of parafiscal burdens such as unaccounted for communals, chambers, forests, water, monumental rents, ZAPs, everything, so that it really would be good for God to have mercy on Croatian hosts so that some magic wand comes down from the sky and they survive more easily from month to month. So, this needs to be solved, at least abolished parafiscal inducements to start, let money be produced at the end, to go the course of money and to allow the hosts to live easier, and then to pay their workers easier, and then it's all one process, that circle, if we talk about an economy that works much, much better. Here we talked about a number of other difficulties we have, so we have a problem of 15,900 objects that have temporary work permits by the end of the year. And here we think we all agreed in this regard that we can't, I don't think it's convenient to come tomorrow and lock everyone up and say goodbye, everyone, it's over. I mean, I mean, as you would say, you have the law, you have the man, so is it always the man you're looking at? But I was here talking to a colleague before you quoted me, so what's the matter? If we don't stand up hard and the law, so we know our people, so I think we'll be open people, we'll find a skating, we'll say variables, so we'll find a skating wherever, so the hole just goes easier, and we'll have to, and normally there'll be pay, tears, curses I don't know when the first banger cuts something, but trust me, so trust me, trust me who else will go to build then. That's how we work, our people, at least so far, maybe we'll grow if it's like every one of us is growing. Once you're hit in the pocket, you're driving around on a fast road and you get a ticket of 2,000 kuna, so 70 restrictions 68 I'm driving because I couldn't buy kids two pairs of shoes and a sweatpants with that 1,500 kuna. So it doesn't come to mind because I'm.../incomprehensible... and that's how it is, we work, and not just us, but also European peoples drilling in the chest of great, great Europeanism and democracy, as well as with them. You know, even Switzerland itself, some countries have that percentage on your total income, is it the same to someone who drives a Ferrari and has no 10 million incomes so he gets 500 EUR fines and this poor person or a man who works as a waiter and has a 1,000-euro salary, so he gets a 500-euro fine. But then they steal these developed democracies and up to 5%, 10% to see from your incomes. Then it's to someone who makes millions, and he's got adequate punishments. So, really, we at the MOST Club are calling the state because it's responsible, so here ruling that as soon as this situation is resolved, that this hot potato is no longer being transferred to some. And I said that I really think that we could provide great benefits and discharges, big ones, meaning to the end the caterers who stick to everything, who are legal. So it might be an incentive to speed up even more and make these others want it then, so I want to get in that pot if I'm going to have more, more income and everything else. So we want a legal and orderly state. And when something's arranged, so you know when someone's got a few pounds more, so it's not easy, it's a rough process of eating, training, and so on with the state. So let's go that way, let's arrange our Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70324	The next club of MPs will be the SDP, and will finally speak to the respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70325	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected gentlemen from the Ministry of Tourism, colleagues and fellow MPs, Proposal for a Law amending the Household Activity Act is adopted by emergency procedure. Why is it brought in by emergency procedure? So precisely because it expires at the end of this year for that most controversial article that we have all somehow focused on our discussion, so an article that specifies the period of validity of temporary solutions for catering facilities, household facilities and the family holding until 31.12.2024. And that's why I just can't accept it when it's said that now that we're discussing this law, we can use the most time or all the time to talk about legal or illegal objects. That's exactly what we should have talked about because it's the most controversial part of the law, the most controversial part of the law. So, what is further controversial and I will support my colleague Miletic in a little while before, in a little previous debate, is the fact that this deadline is again extended by 3 years. 3 tourist seasons, therefore, are carried out by emergency procedure, which is why because the deadline is running out and everything needs to be arranged for the tourist season to arrive in time. We know that we depend literally on the sun and the sea because there's nothing else we've done but wait for tourists, wait for the sun to shine and unfortunately our season is so short and we have to make it possible for those illegals to work during the summer months, I would tell the illegals. These illegals we've heard and in Mr. Kleman's debate, they're foreign citizens, and they are, and that's additionally defeating information for the Republic of Croatia. We allow illegals who are foreign citizens to collect more money on the territory of the Republic of Croatia illegally renting facilities that they illegally built. And they also get the encouragement of our country which is worthy of praise, and it is commendable for helping our legal owners or guests to get over this Covid crisis, so these illegals are also using the fact that the ministry is very generously free from paying part of the residence tax or taxes right in tourism. And that's what's bothering me. That's what's been bothering me all along. But what's going to happen to the fact that out of these 16,000 illegals, they're actually not going to meet the conditions to become legal. Why doesn't that work out right now? We already know that there are those among those 16 who will not meet the conditions to become legal. So we consciously allow people to illegally garner money on our territory. That's genius. And that's the next three seasons. That's genius. So if you had suggested an extension because you didn't make it, you didn't have personnel, you didn't have time to agree with each other at the ministries, I'm talking about the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, so you extended the deadline for a year, but to three years to provide illegals with foreign citizens with a bunch of money and at the same time a breach of our space. It's a disaster. Unacceptable. What do you do? When it's built, when it's in the top state of the building, pull all the cameras and crash. And that was here one would say many radical proposals. It's not radical at all, I think it's excellent, I think it's great because it would be a clear message, we don't allow anyone in the Republic of Croatia to be the SDP, the HDZ, the MOST, or any other political, religious, any belief or commitment to work against the laws of the Republic of Croatia. That would be a clear message. And as my colleague said before, we wouldn't have dared those illegals, especially on other people's territory, or on our own to work illegally, but we have no political power or will. It doesn't collapse at all, and it doesn't prevent itself. It's very clear who's to blame, we don't have to look far for the guilty, it's not the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Tourism is doing what it can, it's the state's inspectorate. There are no employees, no hired people but who will do their job, there are laws, the Construction Act clearly defines what will be done with illegal objects, but the law is not implemented. The law is not implemented because it does not want to be implemented and that is the only problem. Finally, it was already said here, and the HDZ agreed, we all agreed we know in whose hands the key Gentlemen, let's not repay the illegal situation. Let's legalize it. [[Thank you very much.]] and solve the problem. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70326	Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Tonchi Glava will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70327	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, MPs, colleagues, here in the final presentation, I will refer to a few things that I think were important today, which were said here, but also to correct perhaps a few incorrect information and to refer to several presentations of parliamentary representatives who may have gone on purpose or by chance in the wrong direction. First you know from our debate today from my opening presentation that here we are talking about the Household Activity Act and what we need to talk about here today and what should be a focus on service providers, catering services or accommodation service providers in, as private tenants. And they should be focused today and I want to put that focus on them, because we do this all together for them, and they have a very important and positive contribution to the Croatian economy, of course Croatian tourism. First, I would like to thank you all together for your participation and very constructive proposals and emotional performances, and I hope that you will agree with me here in the past few years, in the previous term and this whenever we were in the Croatian Parliament and therefore as far as the laws of the tourism domain are concerned, we have listened very carefully to your proposals and very often we have respected the proposals and including proposals of the opposition because the quality proposal is a quality proposal, and I believe we can freely say a little above and any division. Tourism is exactly the opposite, tourism combines, gathers people and tourism gives us the opportunity to work a little closer together than we would under some normal circumstances. So, the temporary solutions that we discussed today, so around 15,900 service providers, I will repeat another of the biggest economic interest, the interest of tourism of the Republic of Croatia in terms of contribution and employment, GDP etc., the contribution to the BDU, is in the interest of course that these people continue to work beyond 31.12 this year. I'm going to underline one thing that may not have been said clearly enough during this debate. Of these 15,900 solutions that we've been talking about here all day you have a large number of objects that are already legalized, but you know which have a problem, they have a problem having solved property-legal relations. And that means they have an object that's legal, but in the garter they're not cleared, they're not transferred to their name and last name, which is, of course, one of the conditions. Now that we are speaking in the context of the date and extension of this deadline, consider that there is, however, something that we know that, that, in order for all of us to like to go much faster and we have to give enough time among other things and that, to be given the opportunity to, therefore, through the court, through solutions clean the grantovnica, register property because ownership is one of the conditions that you have a permanent solution or, respectively, minimum technical conditions or categorization depending on what we are talking about. And I believe in this, that in the period ahead of us, we will be able to solve all of this together. I will repeat again, so these cases are not resolved by the government or by the ministry, so these cases are now solved by cities, municipalities and counties and they differ naturally by number and significantly from county to county. I have the figures here and I could read you a number for each individual county, but I don't want to talk about it because the focus of this law is not legalization, it's not cleaning the garret, the focus of this law is to allow people who are on so-called. temporary solutions to continue to work. And that's the focus, I hope you'll agree with me that it's in everyone's interest that we have, that people work, that we have as many quality catering facilities as possible, as much as possible, as possible for us to provide accommodation services for private tenants, etc. And this is how we handled it. Also, I will underline this distribution once again, or something which has therefore been resolved by law, by amendments to the 2018 law, and therefore we are talking about the services of bed and breakfast in private accommodation facilities compared to services in family agricultural holdings, which are registered for among other catering activities. So we have already made this distinction very clear in the 2018 changes, going towards developing this different positioning of tourism products. Therefore, private accommodation in the form of bed and breakfast, therefore sleeping with breakfast and in the form of OPGs which are generally not the primary activity of tourism, but the primary activity is agriculture. And right through this, through this symbiosis, two economic activities that are highly linked to each other if they are successful, to create an opportunity not only to develop the top quality service our OPGs are definitely offering, I think that you will all agree with me, but at the same time to encourage both economic and agricultural activities, because our condition is, therefore, in our law that it is a obligation for the providers of family agricultural economies to have a obligation to provide food or food services, and particularly from their own production. And that's if I'm not wrong about Article 39 of the law of this one that's here today, or who we're changing. So in that sense, we've made that distinction very clear. Again, the result of that limitation of territorial or possibility of providing food services to private owners who are not within 15 km, have no other service providers was the same result of a single amendment in the Croatian Parliament which we have accepted, but unfortunately the European Commission has had a proposal, an observation of this and this part today with these amendments that we are proposing to change, but I will say it again absolutely once again is very important, so it is absolutely not a problem for anyone because since 11, since 11 months 2018, when we introduced this possibility until today, we have not had a single registered tenant who would provide such a type of service. So here we are 100% okay. As for several proposals or findings that have arrived in your debates, I will refer to several that I consider to be the most important. If I am not mistaken, MP Ahmetovic, you were talking about tourist tax, tourist tax and their reduction, and if I am not mistaken at one point, you referred to this one and said it was something that was going on with the burden of Croatian citizens. So just to clarify the tourist tax, it's very important that we have and for all those who listen to us, see that we have very clear and accurate information. Therefore, tourist tax is something paid by foreign tourists in the Republic of Croatia and for the largest number of objects in the Republic of Croatia are realised per night on the basis of therefore a tourist tax per night and per day, and the amount of that amount paid per night and per day is determined by units of local and regional self-government and that is something that we have done with those changes, the full changes to the reforms of the tourism system that we have made in a way that we have introduced a model of destination management and before it has been settled by a government regulation for the whole of the Republic of Croatia, and now for several years it has been reduced to the level of municipalities and cities, or county where decisions on the height of tourist tax are made. We, during this crisis, therefore Covid crisis which, we had two Covid tourist seasons, made it possible to change since it was one disorder that no one could foresee, so of course there were no legal provisions regarding the same, we first made it possible for municipalities and cities or counties to change these amounts during the duration of the special circumstances or to reduce them, and we as a proposer reduced the part relating to the flat-rate paid by private renters. The private tenants therefore pay the flat-rate fee which is defined and logically if, in the two tourist seasons or two tourist years that we have had, if they have had a reduced number of arrivals and overnights, statistics definitely confirm it, we have made it possible for them, given that the pausal was done on some estimate or average that we have very clearly, precisely calculated, calculated through us by the system e-visor, so if you haven't done the number of days as usual and normally as you did about 50%, and last tourist season was just like that even on the whole average 50%, then it was logical that we reduce the obligation of the pausing fees for the pauschalists. And we did that, but again I say tourist tax is paid by our tourists and paid upon arrival in the Republic of Croatia. So, it's not a parafiscal inducement not to go after him eventually with a tourist membership fee, is it? Furthermore, regarding the part relating to the working time of catering facilities, two parliamentary representatives talked about it here today, so in our law, this law was settled in a way that the facilities of groups of hotels, restaurants and bars, or I apologize to restaurants and bars have working hours until, on the possibility of working up to 24 hours, and units of local self-government may eventually decide to move that working time so either an hour earlier or up to 2 hours later, with of course some of their conditions that must be met. So those who decide when to work, let's say, bars if we talk about them in the most part are, however, units of local self-government that eventually allow for the continuation of work after 24 hours, nightclubs, nightclubs that of course meet the conditions have the possibility of working until 6 o'clock. And so that's defined by this law, but still, let these two hours that are controversial to all of us, that's something that's in the jurisdiction of local self-government units. And here I will say that, yet as a government or as a Ministry of Tourism, when we were doing reform in the previous term, we went towards the development of tourism according to the principle of destination management, which means that we give as much authority to local self-government units to decide what kind of destination they want to develop, what kind of tourist tax they want to have, until they want to work with certain types of catering facilities, etc., so that we give them the opportunity to manage what kind of destinations they want to be. In this regard, however, we must respect the fact that the local self-government unit should nevertheless be the most aware and concerned about it, these working conditions, and therefore, of course, working conditions and private renters. And as for another comment that was mentioned here, I believe that you mentioned it, or there was a question in your replica about breakfast versus half board and full board. So, breakfast as such in most parts consists of finished or semi-certain products, mostly part of the breakfast demand, and it is still significantly smaller compared to the preparation of complex dishes that are prepared for lunch or dinner, board or half-board, full board, so that in that sense breakfast is something that our hosts can do relatively simply in some kind of gauges of normal cuisine to do, unlike registered catering facilities, such as serving meals, which must meet the requirements of HACCP, which must have a lot of satisfied things about food safety, the protocol of arrival, departure of food, delivery, preparation, etc., so that in this sense we took care of it. But what is very important is that we wanted to separate just so that all the guests who use private accommodation services in the Republic give the opportunity to feel that host, to feel that quality service for which Croatia still has its own name, reputation, we are a unique tourist country on this issue which still has one large share of the accommodation that is in that so-called so-called. private or family accommodation and we are just giving extra value with one such service so bed and breakfast, and bed and breakfast is one form of tourist offer that is very popular in the world, which is even growing in the last few years on all of the world's interesting tourist destinations, and that, where we have a real opportunity to show our household and ours, our service and we have been going in this direction in 2018 and in principle we continue to make these changes and additions. And of course, as regards serving meals, complex meals, so pensions, half boards, etc., if we speak from the context of private tenants or OPGs, we aim to feed them and to have a special single quality in family farms and thus, as I have already said before, we are doing a significant contribution to our agricultural production in the Republic and we believe, therefore, in all our market studies, if you look at the TOMAS research that we have been doing for many years. In 2019, it was the first year we did TOMAS research in the area of the entire Republic of Croatia, and not only on these trial destinations, because we wanted to follow these trends on the continent and we wanted to follow the satisfaction of guests who use service on the continent and of course what we are saying, so food service, accommodation on family farms etc. The service on the continent was generally very good and very highly rated and motive of arrival and visitation to a particular destination for a good part was motivated by a very quality service which is just about serving food and drink in family farms. So in that direction, in that sense, I think we're going in the right direction, and I thank you all once again for your participation, and I hope that you will support the amendments and the proposed amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70328	We've got one replica, the esteemed representative of Pulak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70329	Thank you. Dear colleagues only to mention at the beginning before their replica that units of local self-government do not therefore have minimum requirements, the state prescribes a minimum residence tax, so that we do not forget that. And besides, when we talk about cobwebs and hotels, they didn't want a problem, they mostly don't build illegal buildings, they build cobwebs. But what I was actually going to say, it moved me to the line of your sentence, let people do, let people do. So often there is a mess in the area, a number that happens all over Croatia, a mess with squats in the squares, a mess with kiosks in the streets, etc., often these illegal things are justified by that, and some people are working and earning money. And I think we need to create a system in which the rules will apply equally to everyone. So there's no discount on each other and there's no excuse for people to work because otherwise they might... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70330	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70331	Dear Representative Puljak, to agree with you, the rules are the same and always for everyone, but again, the topic we're talking about here is not a mess in the space that we're solving with this law and it's not something that's the subject of amending this law. So this law is trying to solve one problem, so let's make it possible for those who are in a legal, legitimate process or legalisation or obtaining permits or solving property legal issues, and who need more time to solve their problems. And of course regarding the tourist tax, related to your comment logically therefore, the ministry of course did not want to go wide now, so we put this framework to say what the minimum is, which is, however, the maximum though that we hold that control in a certain way but that range goes 100% practically so that we really gave everyone the opportunity to decide in which direction they want to develop their destination and on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70332	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Now we're going to go to the next of the 3 points we still have, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 198 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Your Honor, Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would also like to say that in the Croatian tax system, tossin tax includes, part relating to the harmonised system of taxation of excise duties, products and services in terms of categories of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, tobacco processing and energy and electricity, and this is the subject of this current law. And on the other hand, we have a part of excise taxation that is not subject to harmonisation with European regulations because such regulation is this and at EU level, and they refer to taxation of motor vehicles, coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, and instead of the concept of excise duty, the concept of special taxes is used. And it is important to stress here that, regardless of the harmonisation, the conditions have been laid down by the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU in a way that is incorporated into restrictions on the basis of individual actions so as not to be subject to certain discrimination with regard to individual Member States. Otherwise, the general excise income including, therefore, the specific taxes involved slightly more than 10, 10.5% in the revenues of the state budget, and in this sense, this is important and pointed out that these are significant revenues from which the state budget is financed. I'm just gonna go over the structure for a second. As far as excise duties are concerned, they are energy, then tobacco processing, tobacco products, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, beer, electricity, natural gas and solid fuel, that is, excise duties. And special taxes are motor vehicles, coffee and non-alcoholic drinks. As regards these amendments to the Excise Tax Act, the next amendment to the EU acquis is in the section of harmonised excise legislation and in Part 3 of the Directive. The first Directive is a Council Directive 2020/262 on general arrangements for excise duties, etc. change, therefore, is said of the general system of excise duties and change. This Directive shall apply from 13.2.'23. In the same way as these others, the latter are also structured through transitional and final provisions until the end of '23. A year. As regards the second Directive, it is number 2019/2235 and it is an amendment to Directive 206/112EC on the common system of value added tax and other Directive 2008/118 on general excise arrangements for defence efforts within the EU framework. And the third Directive of 2020/1151 amending Directive 92/83 on the harmonisation of excise duty structures on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. This is the directive which, in this very law, carries perhaps the most significant amendments, so I will only make it brief on each of the individual directives. As regards the first Directive, so 2020/262, therefore, the general system of excise duties and changes relate to informing the system of movement within the EU of excise products released into consumption. Finally, the legal technical harmonisation of the Institute of Excise Law with changes in customs legislation and the introduction of common thresholds to a partial deficit or loss of excise products in the light of the characteristics of goods. As far as this information system is concerned within the EU means that the transition from a moment to a moment, on the basis of paper documents, will move to e-business and modernise the current so-called. the paper system, simplify and speed up the business process and reduce the administrative burden or will lead to administrative redundancies of the shareholders in the trade of excise products released for consumption with the owners from other Member States. This is the deadline that I said was 13th, 13th of February, '23, with that part of the infringement still going to the end, or early '24. A year. As regards concrete data, for example for the past year according to Customs Administration data, the exchange in this segment was between 253 employers from the Republic of Croatia and senders and recipients, and this was a movement in a way that 40% of the movement or shipment concerned the dispatch from the Republic of Croatia to other Member States and, vice versa, 60% of the other Member States in the EU. And as for the structure of the products themselves, 85% of these movements were related to the category of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, and the rest to the energy. With regard to the legal harmonisation of the Institute of Excise Law with changes in customs legislation, it should be recalled that in 2016, the EU Customs Code and the implementing rules were fully amended and that the law of 2013 was, on the occasion of the first time, harmonised today's law and was later amended in 2019 on the 20th in the context of the amendment of the relevant directives in the customs legislation itself. Therefore, the aim of this harmonisation is to improve and simplify the handling of excise products put into the customs procedure of imports or is, or exports through the definition of uniform rules and conditions which reduce therefore and administrative costs and, of course, the aim is to ensure possible excise debt and to prevent fraud. As regards the introduction of common thresholds to a partial deficit or loss of excise products in the light of the characteristics of goods, the current system has been a charrel, so its Member States have had their own regulations and these amendments wish to level these common thresholds, and they would be prescribed by a delegated act of the Commission. By the time the common thresholds are signed, national rules shall apply to all Member States. As regards the Republic of Croatia, this is the Regulation on excise duties and decisions of the HGK on the permitted height of the shortage or loss in the production, storage and transport processes. Furthermore, as regards harmonisation with Directive 219/2235, which is related to the EU defence efforts, this is a release binding to implement in order to equate the application of excise duty exemptions in relation to defence efforts undertaken in order to implement EU activities in the context of a common security and defence policy with excise exemption, which will already apply to defence efforts undertaken under the North Atlantic Treaty. NATO. The third directive, as I said, is otherwise called an alcoholic so-called. Directive. It is about the most significant changes and they relate primarily to wages, to excise duties on small producers of strong alcoholic beverages that produce up to 50 liters of strong alcoholic beverages from the fruit per year per household and use it for their own consumption and consumption of members of their households or their guests. The relevant provisions of the Taxation Act for small producers required payment obligations to register in the system and to pay excise duty for boilers up to 100 litres 100 kuna over 100 litres 200 kuna. By, of course, it was allowed to produce 20 liters of pure alcohol, alcohol a year or these 50 liters that I mentioned earlier, let's call such brandy the strength of 40% of volume. Therefore, if such a producer produced more than that quantity, it is required to report it to the customs administration and then it would be cut at the standard rate that is 6,000 kuna per hectolitre. And in these cases, what is the essence of the current norm is that now small producers who had 100 and 200 kuna costs and produced up to 50 liters of brandy no longer have to pay for it. Why is this important? Because 38,374 are currently registered to such individuals who are dealing with one thing. And secondly, so far, the European Commission has launched an infringement procedure against the Republic of Croatia of EU law under number 2014/2209 with the argument that our Excise Taxation Act in this part favours certain groups because, as too low, we tax it rather than the condition, we were about to find ourselves in half to half that rate of these 6,000 kunas. And during the chairmanship of the Republic of Croatia, this directive, with the support of other Member States, has been amended and essentially harmonised just as the Republic of Croatia has so far had with the fact that we no longer have to pay these 100 or 200 kuna in the future. Several countries that have such a system and are not alone, so this will be quite harmonised at EU level. Furthermore, there is also the use of this method to ensure control mechanisms so that certain standards are added to control it so that someone does not produce and is essentially carrying out a registered activity which is, of course, a job for customs administration today. Maybe just the number of these small manufacturers we had since 2016 that number was at 40,738 to today he was a charolic, up and down moving, at the end of what I had already said to 38,374 current small producer. In addition, a new, new institute is introduced, which is an independent small producer of other drinks obtained by boiling, then an independent small producer of the product and an independent small wine producer, with the possibility of applying a reduced excise duty of 50% of the national prescribed amount. So instead of 6,000 of those I mentioned per hectolitre, that's 3,000. And this is very important, perhaps in the context of these people who, for their own needs, produce that we have this kind of scaled level that they don't have to go to this full application per, per liter, translated by these 6,000, that would be roughly 24 kuna tax burdens per liter, and in this case it would be 12. So, mostly to briefly indicate this only, by introducing an institute of an independent small producer of inter-product with an average production of not more than 250 hectares per year or 25,000 liters per year, for example, are cherry, vermouth, porto, prosek, bermet, liqueur wines, currently of all registered producers of these intermediate products, and we have 33 all meet the conditions to apply this reduced excise duty rate. The introduction of a further institute from the directive of an independent small wine producer here is a threshold of no more than 1,000 hectolitres per year, and an independent producer of other drinks obtained by boiling is no more than 15,000 hectolitres per year. And perhaps, in conclusion, I should also point out the change that has been introduced and which is a mandatory release and optional release, which is the introduction of a exemption from paying excise duty on alcohol when such products are used in the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products. This is mandatory release and/or in the production of food supplements. The option is this, as far as I saw in the law and predicted that we would also release it, and as a rule this release refers to food supplements, or in the sense of inktur, beekeepers' propolis and other food supplements producers, which would, in the tax sense and administrative sense, be released and paid only in terms of paying the excise duties of bought alcohol and charged excise duties on the finished product. This is in short all that this amendment to the Excise Taxation Act, so mostly 3 directives. The most significant change in the context of a small producer. First of all, because the European Commission has launched.../incomprehensible/... against the Republic of Croatia, but now our practice has entered European legislation and we are harmonised. Somewhere $5.5 million will be less in, 5 million in the state budget from the point of view of income. This, for the state budget itself, is not a large amount, but we think that, in order to encourage the sustainability and sustainability of the traditional production of fruit brandy in rural households and measures to me, would be very convenient for these, for these natural persons. Here, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70336	Thank you, we have more replicas. The first one's a respected volunteer, Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70337	Thank you, Vice President. So, Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you a question that may not be a direct part of this bill, this proposal to amend the excise tax code, but it's part of which I regulate the Excise Taxation Act itself, it's about using a blue diesel for our farmers. So our farmers often complain, especially in the winters when blue diesel because of the larger amount of paraffins it stops filters, doing damage to tractor engines, and we know that back a few years ago and they are trying to get more expensive machines that have ecological engines affect reduced environmental pollution and then repairs of such machines are extremely expensive. I am interested in whether your ministry has heard of such problems by our farmers and whether they can expect, in the future, the right to use euro diesel and yet to reduce or abolish blue diesel in consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70338	The answer of the respected secretary of state to ask that questions be related to the Excise Taxation Act, this had nothing to do with it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70339	Yes, thank you very much and thank you for asking what is convenient to remind us and the public that we also have this blue diesel institute in terms of using for these needs that you mentioned so that there would be no abuse on the market and that people would not use it for pouring into personal cars etc. Here's all you've done on several occasions is discussed, of course, the systems and surveillance mechanisms are this one of the reasons why you're doing it, and by copying maybe some of the EU countries that have done it better, and that's the process that takes place and which, as a proposal here from the present Director of the Customs Administration, is initiated to see what to do. And otherwise in the 3rd and 4th rounds of tax reform, we tried to compensate that part for the transport of goods and passengers in terms of trains, in terms of buses, in terms of trucks above 7.5 tonnes. Recurrence Maximum excise duty... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70340	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We have the next replica of the respected MP, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70341	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and the Honored Secretary of State, the question is concrete to me, so we have a very high sentence, I'm wondering if you have any information on how much they were paid or who controlled them, whether they were paid or not, do you have the information at least indicative of how many fines were issued in 2020?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70342	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70343	Here, thank you for your question, I really don't have any in my possessions here, but the Customs Administration is keeping records of the motions that we can make afterwards and tell you outside the pay phone, and in the end, it all ends up in court, and that kind of procedure certainly has courts. If I can use the rest of my time just to finish the answer if you agree to the previous one. So now at the annual level we have a return of 220 million kuna on average for the use of diesel. That's why this excise duty is even lower than the one used on classic gasoline to encourage the economy to be cheaper. So the minimum excise duty at EU level translated from the EU to kunas of approximately 2.5 kuna and now the excise duty of 3.08 returns to a minimum of 2.5 kuna and has so far been 220 million kuna per year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70344	Replica has a respected representative, Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70345	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, under this law, the state is incometing about 16 billion kuna incomes from excise duties. At least that's what the budget rebalance says which increases that revenue by 270 million kuna. At the same time, excise duties are financed both by the road and rail sectors, and this country, or the government of the Republic of Croatia, foresees a reduction in expenditure, so the cost of around 100 million kuna. Given that the government's ten-day measures to limit the price of fuel, when the government has not decided to limit excise duties or to reduce excise duties, we know that there is room to reduce excise duty and 1.10 per petrol fuel and 50 drops per diesel fuel, I wonder if you have any information that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is considering in the direction that other EU countries have already done and whether there is room to reduce these excise duties for the next 10 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70346	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70347	Thank you very much for your question, just Tuesday the ECOFIN debate at EU level will be about prices, the rise in energy prices independently of which, in order to launch at EU level procedures that are necessary, harmonised, and this is not only the problem of the Republic of Croatia but also the EU. It may be that in the case of a diet, since the excise duty is normally prescribed in absolute terms to the quantity it affects the height in terms of itself, the price itself rather than the quantity. And that is why this 1.20 cumulative that comes from excise duties is intact in terms of these detachments that you mentioned about Croatian roads. So now I don't know from what context this reduction in their budget revenues turned out to be, but here's the amount still 1.20. Of course, the government will intervene in any case if it is necessary and more drastic measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70348	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70349	Dear Secretary, today we have businessmen who have their own information systems that actually come out of patterns that they later submit to the Customs Administration. One part of the economy buys that form in the National Journal, fills in manually and teaches in the Customs Administration, and now you have stipulated in law that the computer trans-European systems of EMCS will have to be used, which is fine and should be supported. However, you have also stated that economic operators who want to be able to use a system that will be available on the web pages of the Customs Administration, and one part will be able to use their systems designed but that must be compatible with this European system. My question is what is the point of contact, or who can these businessmen address to create systems that will be compatible with this system?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70350	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70351	Here, thank you very much, this is a useful, useful question for the businessmen who ultimately have to respect this norm. In any case, as regards the Republic of Croatia, it is the Customs Administration of the Republic of Croatia and all activities related to the excise system are linked to the Customs Administration except, of course, these basic taxes in the work that I said were not the subject of this law. So if I can direct any misunderstandings on my colleague, Marija Dimirovic, as director and his associates, this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70352	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So in these amendments to the law, the amendments to the law are actually in line with the EU directive and this is interesting in fact your exposure, I listened to it very carefully, so the European Commission first launched against the Republic of Croatia because we had this provision that 50 liters of brandy should be used for personal purposes, and then we have now actually convinced the European Union that they can use it all the Member States, right? Is that understood? During our presidency, so that all member states have now accepted some practice that was actually in the Republic of Croatia, and it is actually good news for 38 thousand Croatian citizens who have so far used this relief this to 50 liters and still have to no longer pay this additional excise duty of 100 or 200 kuna and do not have to fear that this commission procedure that is now being launched because these directives are now actually being standardised at EU level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70354	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70355	Thank you very much. This is what you have well concluded, so here it is, maybe it was all so, some like to say a set of circumstances, but in the same way we had our initiative, along with our initiative a good part and the countries of the European Union that passed these standards, starting with our neighbours and Slovenians, and even Austrians and even worse, the Germans saw that advantage. It may be important to warn our citizens that if they were to produce more than 50 liters of alcohol to suggest applying to the Customs Administration, perhaps if they were more significant quantities to enter this system 50% excise payment so that they wouldn't have to pay the full amount of excise duty per litre that we have just translated into 24 kn per litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70356	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I am opening a debate on this point and the first on behalf of the Representatives' Club Mosta will speak to the respected representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70357	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, the honourable state secretary with his associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, Croatian peoples. We can agree that what's changing and what's being complemented by changes and supplements, so I'd almost say it's more or less okay. But there is also quite a series of illogicalities that I would somehow like to warn you about here, and I would eventually like to help the secretary of state if they had something to say or under the carpet by chance, maybe on purpose and maybe it just flew away, so here's some way of participating in the opposition eating in the whole process to help you where we can. Excise duties are seen as taxes paid at the time, we know the exemptions of goods from the economic environment for its use in further entrepreneurial or state-owned production or for consumption by the end-user. It is quite clear how excise duties and special taxes contribute most to the state budget and most of it is collected right through energies and through spiritual, spiritual, I always end up on spirituality, but it is my habitat, it cannot possibly escape, yet something different, tobacco products, oh dear God. So, let's have a little laugh here at the Croatian Parliament. Maybe we all need a little bit more optimism and hope, and we're pretty worked up, so just optimism and hope. They had our guys in the hardest times and optimism and hope, and we don't know today, we're looking pretty black at everything. Croatia is somewhere in the upper part of the Member States at the level of excise duties which already opens the space of smuggling practically and various tax invasions, which is actually a avoidance of tax payments, has legal and illegal, finding those holes, the shrubs of cha we say down on the Kvarner of Arika, so always, before I warned in the debates, always the Croat can find a hole somewhere to avoid something, so the laws need to be done well, so it will be easier for people to follow those laws. So, in the middle, we have here and the situation is the working material status of official customs administrations, so the wages are what they are, we all know what they are. And it reopens the possibility of corrupting employees when we talk about tax controls. What is the understanding of the content of this law at all, what will be the state control of employees in the administration of this system, here is the first important question. What is the transparency of administrative procedures, what will be the discretionary authority of the officers in the implementation. We're going to see all of this at the rate of corruption in this sector, and then we're going to be able to bring some conversation, eat in this whole story of the ministry, legal and sublegal acts. The assessment of the situation for the adoption of the law says I quote: New amendments, i.e. amendments to the legal acquis of the European Union in the segment of harmonised excise legislation, require further harmonisation of excise duty laws with the acquis, which is why it is necessary to amend the excise duty law in such a way as to implement the relevant provisions of the Council Directive of the European Union, etc., the EU Council Directives and the Council Directives a number of points, I am not going to confuse you with this right now. But the question, who and the basis of what will judge what is relevant for the implementation in a country where there is indeed a whole series of excise duties in various aspects of everyday life. Who's that? Furthermore, in the assessment of the situation, I am again quoting, simplifying the treatment through the harmonisation of customs and excise treatment on the one hand or strengthening the system of supervision and prevention of tax fraud through better control tools or better compliance in the conduct of the other. This is a state-of-the-art assessment, but what's going to be in practice. Among the many problems, I will isolate the problems of law enforcement when a person e.g. which uses blue diesel if I get the State Secretary right, so you help me if I'm not, I'm always willing to learn and apologize for my mistakes. So, an individual can request a quota this year, use blue diesels, but next year he doesn't ask for a quota at all because he's got an elevator left, and now is there a danger that he's not in the new one reporting whether it's a new quota, and he tightens it for example. He's getting his hands on some mobile unit from the Customs Agency with fuel that's dirty and so they treat him like a breaker, and he's not a breaker or he is. You'll explain that well. So, you should report the rest until January 15th, pay the excise fee if I get it right and then it's legal. So, for example. When we have boats, here I love this sea, this more and more vessels use gas, more and more vessels and thank God, and the state mentioned does not subsidise carriers and fishermen to the extent to which they subsidize, for example. Blue diesel or excise duty refund for unleaded gasoline. Is this logical, is that fair or what? Now I'd like you to help me out here, too. That's all you're gonna do. You're gonna call me right now and we're gonna get to the bottom of this right now. So, for example, despite the fact that, among the first 3 problems in the context of human health of the health system at EU level, tobacco products, please colleagues are not spiritual, but tobacco products and alcohol and their effects on human health, the minimum penalties in the context of basic initiation are 3,000 kuna. And under the same conditions, the minimum penalty for vine oil for natural persons with incredible 30,000 kunas. Now that disproportionateity was quite a shock to me. So, I got into this topic, so I read something, which costs more the state system, the person who has the consequences of using spiritual products gets sick, and we know that I've been saying that 15,000 of our citizens die annually from the consequences of smoking, and I'm not reducing it, so I'm not cutting anything all the time, I'm not reducing anything, but as this is, you know, so now it's not the consequence of smoking what now is 15,000 one Metkovic, Makarska, every year. It's like we're all focused on, but okay, come on, some other topic. Or a person who in a tank exactly 200 kunas of oil. So I don't justify anything at all that would be.../incomprehensible/... I'd encourage a lot of oil or, but then there's 30,000 so, and here I think here's not the ratio for me. So, control of the billing of the fines issued, you heard the secretary of state, I find a man nice enough, but I didn't know the answers. How much is it charged, how much is it charged? You know what I got my sources and my data. Therefore, the justification for hiring a state apparatus to carry out excise irregularities procedures and to impose such penalties which, consequently, will never be paid in a huge percentage, will never be paid, and often affect the poorest population. What's the point of everything? So that's where I'd also like to be explained in the end and to the public whether it is. So there are a lot of these shortcomings in this law enforcement although I said that changes and supplements are good, so what I managed to figure out. So, I have another problem with the secretary of state. We got Customs, guys tell me. I call you guys every time there's a theme, people I know. And now they're telling me there's no Marine storage tanks for the accommodation of taken-off energy. That's what people in the field tell me, they lie, I lie, and if they lie to me, then they're not gonna be okay, no. So the lack of communication, the lack of understanding between courts, customs in direct settlement of cases. So paper harmonisation of legislation with EU directives requires a prerequisite for infrastructure for the whole system to be functional, that it has a head and tail because if we just impose some law, we now have some directive and now we immediately meet it, the EU is saying we listen to it now and do it, and we did not allow it to work on the ground, and then we have chaos. We've got chaos. But let's finish positive, let's finish positive. So, up to 50 liters and if you have your own garden, if your own vineyard is small, then some of your stories can be happy citizens at the end of the day whether it's in our country, because if you have any trouble related to the law or corruption, or if you're struggling with everything you bake to a friend of brandy, there's no expense, there's no paying, so for a moment you forget the problems surrounding you until you wake up. Because as soon as you wake up again, you're aware of all the difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70358	Thank you very much. No, the Secretary of State, please, on behalf of the motionary, please, Mr. Zrinasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70359	Here, thank you very much, Vice President. Well, let me just answer this one right now so I don't forget if it's going to take anything in the final word. In the context of what is now an esteemed representative, I would just like to say as far as customs administration is concerned, one of the few services that has this continuity of work in relation to the former state is the Customs Administration, so at least it's been functioning for over 30 years, and not to say before and all of these assumptions that you've instructed are here. We can talk about working conditions and, and the salaries of civil servants etc. This is what tortures more countries, not only the Republic of Croatia, which is at a level that is richer in GDP. I'd like to take these numbers out here for a little while. The number of violations committed for 2020 is 8000 and 600. Charged fines of 8 million and 500 thousand kuna, which is an average thousand kuna per violation order. Otherwise, 75% of the fines were charged without objecting to a misdemeanor, and only 25% went into further proceedings. The euro diesel and blue diesel treatment is exactly the same as this story, and the gas excise duty to drive anything is 0.00 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70360	Thank you very much. You have a replica of a Mr. Pavić replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70361	Mr. Secretary, I'm just gonna help you out a little bit. Here is the fact that the information system of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Croatia is the first that was created in the Republic of Croatia in one small percentage and is my child because I worked in Apis, I have to tell everyone who does not know this system is made of zero. The Republic of Croatia did not have this system and we did it with our customs officers who worked at the border crossings of the former Yugoslavia and it was a difficult and painful job. And what was made was actually very good and quality, and when people from Europe came to us to watch what we had were just words of praise. So we don't need to criticize what we don't know because it's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70362	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70363	Here's a thank you very much and thank you for this finding you've drawn from your own experience. For the good part, I can testify in the context and other services I have worked so far. There are a lot of honest people, a lot of, a great majority of honest people, unlike some who do stuff in one way or another, and through these prisms and through those eyes, we know how to look at it. But there are a lot of people who love their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70364	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mrs Grozdana Peric to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State and the Director of the Customs Administration. So we have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act, which will be supported by the HDZ Club. The purpose of amending the acquis of the European Union is to ensure, above all, the proper functioning of the internal markets by facilitating legitimate trade between Member States of the European Union and protecting the financial interests of Member States. The objective is also to administrative discharge of economic operators and competent authorities by informing business operators which, on the one hand, dispatch or receive excise products released into consumption and simplifying procedures through the harmonisation of customs and excise treatment on the one hand or strengthening the control and prevention systems of tax fraud through better control tools or better compliance in the conduct of the other. So this is in the preamble of the law itself that we have received, or an explanation that actually refers to what is happening in these amendments to the law itself. As the Secretary of State has said here, it is a matter of harmonisation with several Directives of the European Council, the Council of the European Union, which are actually four and five Directives which, since 2020/262, 2019/2235, then the Directive amending Directive 2006/112, etc. What exactly are they bringing? It is in this part that some of them bring into line the Institute of Excise Law with changes in the customs legislation of the European Union, informing the system, and it is also about the most significant changes through the regulation of excise duty exemption for small producers of strong alcoholic beverages that produce up to 50 liters of very alcoholic beverages from the fruit per year per household and use it for their own consumption and consumption of members of their own household or their guests. As has been known so far, this cobweb in the register of excise bonds was 100 kuna for the boiler volume of up to 100 litres and 200 kuna, respectively, which was more than 100 litres. It is also known that these lump sums were actually done and were income of 5 million kuna per year in the state budget, which in this way actually enables small producers to make up to that level up to 50 liters of brandy or 20 liters of pure alcohol do not have to pay excise duties and can therefore be used for household or family needs. It's a disbursement precisely for 38 thousand 374 taxpayers who have so far paid those amounts. Through the introduction of new institutes, an independent small producer of other beverages obtained by boiling or an independent small producer of inter-products and an independent small wine producer is regulated by Articles 78a, B. and C. where it is said that it can be produced if its production does not exceed 1000 hectolitres of excise duty on wines produced by them and released into consumption in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is paid at a level of 50% excise duty which is otherwise determined. The 67th century of the Fourth Law. The following institute is also an independent small producer of other hot drinks other than beer and wine. For commercial purposes, they can produce up to 15,000 hectolitres of other drinks by boiling annually and also pay 50% excise duties, and then an independent small manufacturer of the product that is regulated by art. 78.c., they can produce products for commercial purposes up to 250 hectolitres of inter-products per year, and 50% of excise duties are also released. What is still significant is that in this way small producers are raised the level of competitiveness when they deliver these very alcoholic beverages to other Member States. And what is even more important is that the introduction and release from paying excise duty on alcohol when used in the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products and in the production of food supplements, in particular, we need to highlight this for our beekeepers whose production of propolis in particular contributes to the addition of food and is very beneficial for health. In this sense, we can indeed welcome these amendments and additions to the law, i.e. that the Republic of Croatia has also contributed to the development of European legislation in a positive way for small producers, so let them be alcoholic beverages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70366	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Ruzica Vukovac will speak in front of the House Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70367	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, we are harmonising national excise legislation with the acquis of the EU. The point of amending the EU acquis is to ensure, above all, the proper functioning of the internal market by facilitating legal trade between EU Member States and protecting the financial interests of Member States. The objective of the administrative dispensation of economic operators and competent authorities through the information of the business of economic operators which, on the common internal market, dispatch or receive excise products released into consumption, as well as the simplification of behaviour through the harmonisation of customs and excise treatment on the one hand or the strengthening of the system of supervision and prevention of tax fraud through better control tools or better compliance in the conduct on the other. Art. 22. The EU Council Directive 2020/1151 provides for the possibility for Member States to prescribe, by national excise legislation, the exemption from the payment of excise duty on high alcoholic beverages produced from fruit provided that it has been produced by a natural person for the consumption or consumption of members of their own household or their guests up to 50 liters per year. The relevant provisions of the Excise Act provide for a small producer of strong alcoholic beverages to enter the register of excise duties and the possibility of applying a reduced rate of excise duty, i.e. to quantities of up to 20 litres of pure alcohol per year per household, depending on the volume of the boiler for each boiler of the volume up to and including 100 litres, and for the volume of volume of more than 100 litres was equal to or equal to 200 kuna. This amendment abolishes the obligation to pay the excise duty, which, in addition to its financial impact, results in the administrative discharge of these producers, and the customs administration. In view of the long tradition of producing strong alcoholic beverages for its own needs, and in accordance with the possibility of applying the exemption under the directive, it is proposed to prescribe the exemption from paying the excise duty to a small producer of strong alcoholic beverages or to a natural person who produces a very alcoholic drink from the fruit that this person cultivates and receives from the land that is owned or leased by a simple small distillery or boiler or expressed as we in Slavonia call it. A small manufacturer of strong alcoholic beverages can produce up to 50 liters of strong alcoholic beverages per year by household and use this drink for the consumption and consumption of members of his household or his guests. Positive effects of the exemption from the payment of excise duty for small producers that produce exclusively for their own purposes reflect on the sustainability and sustainability of traditional fruit-cancer production in rural households, as well as the simplification of excise procedures with registered bonds, so to the natural persons currently claimed in the Ministry of Finance we have 38.374 in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the pre-existing obligation to register small producers of strong alcoholic beverages and registration of distillers, it remains the obligation to register new small producers with the registration of distillers, so boilers including their size, volume and location, the obligation on the part of the customs administration to keep registers and records thereof, thus ensuring the conditions for implementing measures in respect of production control and consumption in accordance with the prescribed conditions. Violation sanctions for identified irregularities for the purpose of preventing evasion, tax avoidance or abuse shall also be imposed. But following the situation on the European Union market raises the question of what is really behind these changes? Not long ago, Croatia was very rigorously punishing our citizens for not reporting for example the roasting of brandy, so alcohol for its own purposes. Let's think of an example of Grandma from like two years ago. In the rural area of the Republic of Croatia production of plums therefore fruit brandy due to the long tradition and customs I will be free to say falls under fundamental human rights. The total population of Like who has become the scene of the 89-year-old grandmother's crime, otherwise today stands at Maksimir Stadium in Zagreb, and only a few old people live in villages around Udbina. The task and goal of the team from the Customs Department of Finance's mobile team in Zadar was easier and simpler when they decided to drag them into the face-to-face adventures to find illegal roast boilers. As reported then, media in one village have successfully caught Grandma since I was 89 years old as she prepares the cascade for roasting brandy. Customs found that Grandma was hiding 50 liters of roasted plums, so they immediately punished her with 500 kuna, and a day later her fine of 1,000 kuna arrived. Those 50 liters of brandy were taken. In the short newspaper text, it could be understood that Grandma lived alone and that she had no one to explain to her so far the applicable legal procedure regarding the conditions for the distillation of alcohol in domestic activity. In translation, it means that Grandma didn't understand her crime at all. That a disgraceful case occurred in that village near Udbina was considered by most of those who read the news, for the opinion prevails that you should be a man of special character to fine an old woman. When the team from Zadar went hunting for illegal distilleries right around Udbin they knew that's where the biggest poor people live. It would be interesting to see if these financial ministry officials also visited other addresses where large quantities of brandy are produced illegally. A deliberate departure with two, three old men and their punishment for which 10 liters of brandy only sounds like an alibi to justify the cost of leaving the entire team from Zadar and to show with these few figures about the fines imposed by air concern about charging the state register. I'm going to take the right, so I'm going to mention two more cases that I admit don't have much to do with the subject, but it's important to me that the more we look at how far we're willing to go. A few years ago, officials detained two old women who sold their cheese on the D1 state road to Plitvices. Grandma Milka and Zdravka were punished by several thousand kunas of fines, and had no money they were given a prison sentence. Milkin's 13 days, and Zdravkin's 3 weeks. When she entered the prison, Milka was 79 years old, and she was lucky because after three days, the media discovered the case and released the news. The good people then collected and paid 3,000 kuna fines and she was released. But soon, she probably died of trauma. Less than 10 years ago in Vodnjan, inspectors discovered 75-year-old Grandma Zork who sold her own salad, parsley and garlic at the market. She didn't have permission, so she was fined 18 and a half thousand kuna. Since Zorka, like before her, Milk and Zdravka and after her, had obviously no information available about the positive regulations rather than spare them, it is clear that civil servants were living above the poor in these cases. And who among the same officers today only two years after the punishment of Grandma from Udbina would have the cheek to stand before her and say that she could still, without any extra peripetia, bake 50 liters of brandy for her own needs? Such cases, which would be ridiculous if they were not tragic, show that a small man will always have to pay the price without officials having no flexibility, those flexibility they advocated by the large institutions of the European Union when, for example, they are due to the old woman who survives and do not deprive the state of profits. And the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Customs Administration, these unpopular cases should be an indication that they're targeting their officers on the actions of catching mobsters, not grandmothers. As far as 86-year-old Udbin is concerned, if it is true that she lives alone, Croatia should reward her for taking care of herself at that age. And anyone who continues to try to survive in these desert parts of the country should be freed from giving as some Alpine states do, some European member states where... are sold without even issuing an account. And to resume the above. They are not Croatian institutions, which in the last year, two have concluded that we need the administrative discharge of businessmen and natural persons certainly not in the section I talked about earlier. The main reason for the amendments to those Directives of the European Union is because the European Union has only strengthened its capacities and has possessed the market and no longer needs rigorous rules to affect certain relations. Nor was the intensity of the restrictions rigorously punishing those that the state should reward for caring for themselves at that time for those who continue to try to survive in these desert parts. But we often interpret regulations by forgetting to be human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70368	Thank you very much. That lady in her age or an old lady like you say who bakes 50 liters of brandy for her own needs must be very nice. Mrs. Mirela Ahmetovic, SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70369	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. This proposal for amending and supplementing the Taxation Act is in line with the amendments to the legal acquis of the European Union or several directives, including those relating to the exemption from excise duty for small producers of strong alcoholic beverages whose production of up to 50 liters of strong alcoholic beverages per year is by house and for the exclusive consumption and consumption of their own household and guests of that household. So far, this excise duty has been paid on a boiler of up to 100 litres per year, and on a boiler of more than 100 litres of volume of 200 kuna per year. Well now, people who have and for their own small needs and use such boilers will be freed from paying those 100 or 200 kuna a year and we welcome that. As the people say, it's not much, but it's nice to see. Other positive changes should mention the release of excise duty on alcohol used for veterinary medical purposes, as well as the possibility of applying a reduced rate of excise duty to independent small wine producers, inter-products and other hot drinks. All of these, as I said first, are therefore minor changes caused by the need to bring our legislative framework into line with the amendments to the European acquis. And although it is part of the EU's legal order and the Croatian tax system is in line with its framework, it is one of the worst tax systems in the world, especially if we are speaking from the aspect of global competitiveness. I will remind you here that the fact that, according to the global competitiveness index of the 59th of 64th observed economy is not the result of the covid crisis, let's not be fooled because this decline in global competitiveness or this result did not begin in 2020. When the covid crisis began, this fall is even 2018, and I believe that before and before and before there have been rises and downs, etc., but somehow we always move here at the bottom of this scale, so I'm not just talking about the mandate of this government at all, I'm talking about previous governments, but we're always kind of at the bottom of that scale of global competitiveness. Of course, this indicator of global competitiveness is affected by the tax system itself, and although it is often said that Croatia has relatively low tax rates in comparison with other countries if we are talking about profit tax or lower income tax rates than the EU average. However, these data should be viewed within the entire tax system and not only its nominal characteristics but also the government policy that the government implements using the tax system instruments, because the relatively low tax rates or nominal rates of those two taxes that I have mentioned are somehow the most important if 200 different pre-fiscal duties are imposed on the other side. My colleagues before me talked about some imposings that really torture not only the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia, so somehow it looks like they're serving to justify themselves as a covert, covered complement of relatively low income tax and income tax. So, baddening relatively low nominal rates of these taxes if incomes collected from them are poured into someone's private pockets or black bags instead of increasing the quality of life. Badav's low profit tax rates if as an entrepreneur you can't compete with the one who put the right man in his pocket to push some kind of business. Badave and low rates if our administration is such that it immediately demotes those honest investors in the Republic of Croatia. Other aspects of corruption that I'm not talking about. Badave and low income rates if that income is so low that you can't survive the month with them anyway. The government's flexibility and adaptability to changes in the global economy are an indicator of the government's ability. And we haven't shown ourselves too much in relation to other countries, which confirms the result of the global competitiveness index that we keep making society the worst. It also confirms the government's behaviour at the time of this economic crisis when, due to the terrible rise in energy prices and other products, the Croatian government decides to limit the freedom of competition and temporarily limit fuel prices to 30 days and that is both legitimate and legal. But the question arises how effective it is and how desirable it is in the context of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy in which we are among the worst. How effective it is we'll see in 10 days when the deadline expires. The President of the European Commission has called on EU members to take advantage of all the mechanisms at their disposal to curb the impact of inflation on citizens' standards and maintain economic activities. Croatia has below 20% of its own production of crude oil and our price depends on the one on the international market. The share of excise duty is quite large in retail and about half the cost is excise, so if the base is large then the rest are also imposed like VAT, and the retail price is, of course, even higher. In some countries excise duties are swimming, are not fixed, so some countries are easing, when fuel prices are rising, they are actually easing these excise duties, i.e. that amount of excise duties to sort of amortise both the burden on the economy and the citizens. The best example is our neighbouring Slovenia. When the world market price rises, the price of oil is slightly lower in Slovenia as it increases excise duties when the fuel price is lower, so there are no major oscillations. This is the contribution of the state to the national economy it lives on. Croatia is the only EU member who has decided to transfer the fuel price problem to the distributor rather than give up its part of the cake. We are also a leading example of the incomparably more successful EU economies, when I tell me then I think in the SDP Club and we in the SDP have proposed reducing excise duties by 50 liras per litre of breathing and one kuna and 10 liters per litre per litre for gasoline. And that's what the state can do without affecting the rail and road sectors that are financed from these excise duties. Therefore, the state budget and all that is financed in these sectors will not be burdened or denied. Our proposal was also to exclude excise duties from the VAT base. Yes, this reduces VAT revenue, but this reduction is mostly compensated by spending on other products that are also accounted for by VAT. However, you allow citizens and the economy to spend, to obtain these other products in exactly this way, and again pay you VAT and pour revenues into the state budget. However, the government decided to keep its share of the cake. After yesterday's budget rebalancing, we see that it's so that she can shoot that income in the hole most of all in health so that Minister Beros can still scratch and lie that there's a reform on the table and that it's actually just waiting for when it's going to start. So for the last five years, until in the meantime... who handles IT operations in the health care department starts performing surgical procedures as well. The government has only intervened by limiting the margin, which is why the reactions of distributors and fuel sellers who announced the suspension of the supply of more quality fuel and those who spend most of the fuel are mainly, i.e. the most expendable economic operators who want to spend more, quality fuels on their machines, which must in some way ensure that they have as long a lifetime as possible because they do not again have a lot of pressure and parafiscal and fiscal opportunities, so every few buy new machines. Citizens with average salary, and even less with minimum wage or pension can't even buy fuel. Even in the basic basket of goods, which they can't handle anyway means that they don't buy fuel but are driven by public transport and they don't have money for it either. So the greatest burden will be borne by the economy. How successful the government's tax policy shows also the disastrous data on the negative impact of the tax system on investments that make Croatia 125th place out of 137 countries in the world, and according to the negative impact of the tax system on the work of 133th of 137 countries in the world. That's why it's not surprising that this law is not a big deal, but it's a nice sight. What the government of the Republic of Croatia will decide on the reduction of fuel prices will be a message to citizens and the economy. Yes to limit margins, but also to healthy state intervention,/ thank you/, and right now it's time for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70370	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Pavić will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the SD. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70371	The Honorable Chairman, state secretary, directors of the Customs Administration, respected colleagues and colleagues. I will first have a little excise system in Croatia that has been present here for many years and experienced several changes and additions. For reasons of clarification, I must mention that in Croatia, in the general speech, the concept of excise duty is used as a limited term covering all forms of excise taxation regardless of whether they are harmonised at European Union level or not. That's what the Customs Department's pages say. In practice in Croatia, the system of harmonised excise taxation includes taxation of alcohol and alcoholic beverages means beer, wine, other drinks obtained by boiling other than beer and wine, inter-products and ethyl alcohol, tobacco processing: cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarillos, fine-cut tobacco and other tobacco for smoking, energy: motor gasoline, gas oil, kerosene, incinerated oil, natural gas, solid fuel, coal, coke and biofuels and electricity. This excise taxation system does not cover taxation of motor vehicles which are subject to fully specific and complex tax rules, as well as taxation of coffee and non-alcoholic beverages. The monitoring of excise duties in the system is extremely complex and so far on the part of the economy is not sufficiently informed, which requires a large paper administration and a great waste of time as well as frequent errors that occur when filling out paper forms and documents. This is one of the reasons why we believe that of all the efforts and activities undertaken to improve the functioning of the state apparatus, informing business processes and simplifying procedures and activities in these business processes is certainly one of the most important efforts and should be given particular attention. Each data digitisation, each automation of an individual activity that is activated after data coverage is one step forward in simplifying the monitoring of changes both by state authorities and by the obligors covering and handing over data to a particular system. Therefore, there is also a need to welcome the reasons why an initiative was launched to amend and supplement the Excise Act. It is certain, however, that the information of the business of the operators which dispatch or receive excise products released in consumption will affect the administrative discharge of the economic operators and competent authorities on the common internal market. There will also be a simplification of treatment through the harmonisation of customs and excise treatment on the one hand, i.e. strengthening the system of supervision and prevention of tax fraud through better control tools or better compliance in handling on the other. The amendment of the legal property of the European Union aims to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market through facilitating legal trade between the Member States of the European Union and protecting the financial interests of the Member States of the European Union. If the information is successfully implemented, the EU will have a favourable impact on all economic operators in terms of facilitating business in the common EU market. After the entry into force of this proposal, the amendments and additions to the Taxation Act will also release a small part of the alcoholic drink producer, namely the taxation of strong alcoholic beverages, the brandy produced by small producers, strong alcoholic beverages, the reduced level of excise duty imposed on independent small producers of the product and the introduction of the exemption from the excise duty on alcohol used in the production of food supplements. As far as the other provisions of the Law are concerned, we do not consider them all to be listed, as the Secretary already said in the introduction, but I believe that I should draw attention to the provision of Article 59 of this proposal to amend and supplement the law, which concerns Article 137 of the applicable law and where Article 137a is added. According to my knowledge, according to the provisions of the so far applicable Tax Act, the customs office could temporarily confiscate the means of transport or transfer used for the transport or transfer of the subject-matter of taxation, which was the solution with the time limit for the retention of the means of transport and transfer used for the transport or transfer of the subject-matter until the end of the infringement procedure, but was used to settle the amount of excise duties charged so far. The proposal for amending and supplementing the law states that in the event that a legal or natural person has committed an offence in such a way that, when entering the EU, it has illegally imported the subject-matter of excise duty, the offender may be fined, i.e. as indicated in paragraph 3 if this is the proportion of the severity of the infringement committed by the customs office may temporarily confiscate the means of transport or transfer used for the transport or transfer of the subject of taxation, whichever is the solution with the period of retention of the means of transport or transfer used for the transport or transfer of the subject of taxation until the final infringement procedure. And then paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 states in paragraph 4 that they are against... He can make a complaint. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In paragraph 5, the appeal against the solution referred to in paragraph 3 shall not delay its execution. It is also stated in paragraph 6 that the appeal of a solution referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article should in fact be shown by the High Violent Court of the Republic of Croatia. And now follow what's confusing to me, maybe later it'll be explained to us or maybe it'll even change the law if you don't think it makes sense. Article 7 provides that the amount of fines and the costs of the infringement proceedings referred to in this Article shall not be paid within the time limit laid down in the Decision on the infringement of the amount of fines and the costs of the infringement procedure shall be charged by force from the severance of the means of transport or transfer used for the transport or transfer of the subject of taxation which will be subject to a specific solution. Now, there wouldn't be a problem if there wasn't an item 6 that states that the perpetrator's appeal to a solution would be manifested by a High Violent Court which may, and as far as I know, it happens most often that then the Criminal Court reduces the fine actually prescribed by the Customs Administration Office. Since, in the meantime, the Office of the Customs Administration acted in accordance with its powers and was forced to charge from the confiscated means of transport or transfer used for the transport or transfer of the tax in question, which means that it actually sold it. The question arises as to how it will be handled in the event that the High Criminal Court actually reduces the penalty and then amounts to, for example, a third of the value of the taken-off means of transport used for the transport or transfer of the subject of taxation. I think there might be a problem here. I say, before that was no problem because they knew the exact amount of excise duties. And if it was charged in that amount from the confiscated means of transport there was no problem. However, when it comes to the infringement in that article, then it can really be a problem because it will happen that funds will have to be recovered and the question is, then, what will be the case after that, given that the owner of the asset may consider that its means of transport could have been sold for more than what was actually sold and from which the costs of the infringements have been settled. So please, if it's possible to put it in the record and discuss it if it's not a problem. Furthermore, what I was going to say, of course we welcome Article 49, which refers to the production of heavy alcoholic beverages by small producers, which will actually be held by our traditional production, will no longer require our small producers to pay taxes on boilers of up to 100 and 200 liters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70372	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mrs. Ivana Kekin to represent the positions of representatives of the Green-Left bloc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70373	Thank you. Honorable chairman, respected state secretary with associates, respected MPs and MPs. At the outset, I should say, therefore, the Green-left bloc's Club supports the effects of this law on the existence of traditional fruit-cancer production and other alcoholic-drink producers in rural households, as well as informing the procedures laid down in Union legislation in the field of excise duties, as well as improving and simplifying the handling of excise products which are placed in the customs procedure of imports or exports. Since the entry into force of this law, therefore, since January 2022, small producers of strong alcoholic beverages that produce up to 50 liters of strong alcoholic beverages from the fruit per year per household will be exempt from paying the excise duty and use it for their own consumption and consumption of members of their own household or their guests. Although we don't hold it as a basic human right as some others welcome it. Moreover, national legislation will be in line with the EU acquis in relation to the European harmonised excise tax system of alcohol and alcoholic beverages. However, it is also worth noting that Europe would not have changed as regards the conditions of drinking brandy, if the Directive on the harmonisation of excise duty structures on alcohol and alcoholic beverages had not been adopted during the Presidency of the Republic of Croatia to the Council of the European Union, which is without a doubt one, but worth mentioning the value of the external-political range of the current government. Internal and political as the government points out, there will be administrative redundancies of businessmen in the trade in goods with economics from other Member States, but not all but just rakias. small producers of strong alcoholic beverages with 38,000. What's going to happen with the dispensation of the other 37,000 businessmen in relation to these laws is not prescribed. However, there will be no longer any obligation to enrol in the register of excise duties and to pay the flat-rate excise duty which depends on the volume of the boiler declared to the customs administration shall be 100 kuna or 200 kuna depending on the volume of the boiler itself. On average we have calculated it will be savings of which 138 kuna per year for the natural person covered by these changes. It is worth noting that new types of alcohol producers are introduced to which no excise duty is paid in the Republic of Croatia, an independent small producer of other beverages obtained by boiling with an average production of not more than 15,000 hectolitres per year, an independent small producer of the product and an independent small producer of wine with an average production of not more than 1000 hectolitres per year with an important goal of raising the level of competitiveness for domestic small producers when delivering alcoholic beverages to other EU Member States. All of those producers will, including, we welcome this, small independent brewers and small distilleries, issue on request a single annual certificate confirming annual production and compliance with the prescribed criteria. Finally, although as I said we support this amendment, it is worth noting that it will only have a small and limited impact on the overall economy. However, given the colossal failure of this government when recovery occurs after the earthquake, and also the colossal failure of this government when there is a struggle against the pandemic, perhaps these amendments to the law are actually the government's message that the most it can do for its citizens is to allow them to drink up to 50 liters of brandy a year without paying taxes in order to deal with the consequences of all other activities of the same government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70374	- Mrs. Crescent. Marijana Puljak will speak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70375	I thank the chairman. So we've heard here, we're talking about amendments to the Taxation Act even though human rights are mentioned as if we're changing the Human Rights Act, but here we are not, they're only excise duties, or they'd say one of the duties that our businessmen have been pressed on. Thus, in the world from the very beginning, excise duties have prompted actually taxpayers to smuggle, especially wine and tobacco producers. Smuggling has been a big job for many, and it has allowed ordinary citizens lower prices for a large number of consumer goods. In bringing tax policy into line with the EU tax policy, excise duties are in line with European provisions and Croatia has transformed excise duties on oil and oil products to harmonise with the EU into energy and electricity and excise duties on tobacco, as well as excise duties on alcohol and alcohol products also make up the main excise duty in Croatia. The excise duties in Croatia, as we heard, after the value added tax are the second revenue of the state budget and thus actually represent the stability of the income of the state. So it's no secret that we're trying to reduce the burdens of entrepreneurs, to reduce countless parafiscal duties. There have been various speeches here, talks about how much 200 is, someone says 150, but some talk about 450, 6 hundred levies that represent not only financial pressure on entrepreneurs but also complicate their business, and as soon as their business is complicated, they have to contact the public administration many times for normal business, in the end it all turns into points where corruption is possible. So, among these perhaps 6 hundred different charges that entrepreneurs must pay are various membership fees. We talked a lot here and in the assembly about membership fees for the Chamber of Commerce, crafts chamber, membership fees for tourist communities, but there are also forest fees, water arrangements, water protection, fees, for example. For packaging waste, waste management fees, municipal compensation, etc. Therefore, we welcome the amendments to this law that will abolish some of these duties or abolish excise duties. Therefore, these amendments bring national legislation into line with the EU acquis in the part of the taxation of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, tobacco processing and energy and electricity. The deadline is thus until the end of the year, and the changes relate to legal technical harmonisation and information of the system. All of this will therefore lead to the administrative discharge of shareholders in the trade in goods with shareholders from other countries, i.e. the transition to that e-system is expected to modernise today's paper system. As we have already heard here the amendments to the law will lead to the exemption from the payment of excise duties of small producers of strong alcoholic beverages that produce up to 50 liters of strong alcoholic beverages from fruit or per year per household and use it for their own consumption or consumption of members of their households. So, those 100 or 200 kunas they've been paying so far, these lump sums will be abolished. This is otherwise the obligation whether under current law was introduced at the time of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU as part of the obligation to comply with the EU acquis. The current income today is about 5 million kuna a year. Except whether the financial, financial consequences, as I said, are both administrative discharges and a total of these taxpayers today and natural persons have slightly more than 38,000 in the Republic of Croatia. We hope that the government will continue with similar activities and for the other hundreds of thousands whether around 380 thousand taxpayers are also introducing additional charges. This law we saw here is being introduced and the new institute is an independent small producer of other drinks obtained by boiling, an independent small manufacturer of the product and an independent small wine producer. Therefore, with an average production of no more than 250 hectolitres per year, manufacturers will be able to apply a reduced excise duty of 50% of the national prescribed level. The aim is therefore to increase the level of competitiveness of small producers when they deliver their products to other European Union Member States, and for the time being, only 33 are registered in Croatia. The exemption shall also be introduced from the payment of excise duties on alcohol when used in the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products, in the production of food additives. Therefore, it is primarily thought of the producers of the propolis in the form of beekeepers and other food supplements which would be released in both tax and administrative terms. So here we welcome these changes, and we call on the government to continue discharging other small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. However, here we are already talking about excise duties lately as to why they were in public focus, of course, related to the price of growing energy and on the world market, the government recently introduced a cap on the price of oil derivatives. However, what the public expected was that this would be introduced in a way that would reduce the amount of excise duties. In fact, 60% of the cost of fuel is waste in the country so if we take the fuel price as 11 kuna, 6.6 kuna goes to the state, so 2.2 kunas as VAT and 4 kunas per excise duty. So out of 11 kuna, 1.1 kuna is taken by a gas station or a distributor, and only 3.3 kuna is the price of fuel. The excise duties taken from fuel prices are financed by Croatian roads, highways, but also by the Croatian railway which we can freely say that, with no knowledge of Croatian health, the same black hole as the amount of money in it is broken down today in the 21st century is at the level of development as in the 18th century. The experts suggested here and here we've already heard the introduction of so-called swimming excise duties in the way Slovenia did. Last year, Slovenia fixed its fuel price to 1 euro, which was achieved by these floating excise duties. So it's not fixed excise duties, it's as they rise or lower fuel prices, so these excise duties rise and decrease. So that's one of the suggestions. We will see when this price limit expires, whether the state will actually be willing to reduce its share or reduce excise duties or at least introduce these swimming ones to control the energy price. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70376	We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mrs Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70377	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Declaratively and by the Constitution, we have defined ourselves as a free competition or free trade, a free market. However, we are not, in any way, committed to it when we talk about practice and it is not controversial because no country can function on the principles of a purely free market and invisible hands. Therefore, state intervention is also needed and desirable when the market is not functioning. But when we talk about a state intervention that is desirable, then we think of a healthy state intervention. And as I said in the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, we are for sound state intervention, and right now it's time for that. And what's the state doing? The state increases revenues from excise duties because we saw that they are projected to increase by 270 million kuna and now amount to 16 billion kuna if it is to judge by budget rebalancing. Reduces costs normally financed from excise duties and naturally covers other sectors' budget gaps, instead of doing what? Instead of helping the economy that this budget generates, that is to say, finance that budget of course with our citizens. In the rebalance of the budget, as I said, excise income increases by 270 million and amounts to 16 billion. At the same time, costs are reduced by 100 million kuna by just those financed from excise duties. And it would be no dispute if our economy flourished and we had no problems in the economy, and despite the fact that the businessmen also rose and appealed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that they would not withstand such escalation of energy prices, especially fuels. There is no understanding of the government, so the government has reached out to the most unhealthy intervention, or to the most unhealthy market intervention by limiting market margins, and thus, in fact, has endangered both fuel supply and fuel supply, which is precisely the fuel used by our shareholders for their machinery and equipment. In the SDP Club, we have proposed to reduce fuel consumption and to do so in the context of which there is space. Knowing that European legislation determines minimum excise duties, we know that space does not have much, but it does, and I have made it very precise on how much that space is. This space is 50 limes per litre of diesel fuel and 1.10 drops per litre of fuel for petrol. We also proposed excluding excise duties from the VAT base, so let VAT be accounted for at that basic price and on the margin, and then, after calculating VAT, should be added to these excise duties, so as to create that total final price for consumers. When I talk about consumers, I mean citizens and the economy. Of course, it is also necessary to prevent those selling that fuel from taking advantage of such excise duty cuts and such exemption from the VAT base to increase their margins, i.e. to turn simply that savings into margins. And these are the three measures that are synchronously necessary to contribute specifically to the protection of not only the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also the Croatian economy from this escalation of energy prices. Now that's a state intervention that protects the national economy. The SDP will support these amendments to the law. They will support it, or support it, because they are de facto cosmetic, of course, with the welcome changes affecting small producers of alcoholic beverages. However, this law is the basis for government decisions that will make life easier for Croatian citizens, which will make life easier for the Croatian economy and we really call on the government of the Republic of Croatia to respect these proposals if not the SDP's Club of Representatives, and then at least the President of the European Commission who thus suggests all EU members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70378	You, too. Mr. Lalovac is replicating you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, one question. Maybe it went under the radar today, so just your opinion on it. This Excise Act now introduces that the European Commission rules out how much a deficit in excise products will be allowed. Until now, he has done so with the excise duty regulation and so far has been done by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, determining how much of this is allowed for certain excise products. Every major loss you had to pay taxes and extra taxes. We're talking about a refinery business in INA. Is this part where the Commission now rules at EU level how much it will be recognised to bugs in a particular refinery business, perhaps to force INA to rebuild the facilities in Croatia and thus to start and produce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70380	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70381	So, given that I've been talking for a long time about colonising the Republic of Hungary, nothing will force INA to rebuild the refinery business because it is simply not in the interest of MOL, who thinks INA only let's tell our daughter's company, i.e. MOL is the one that determines which way the business will operate in that segment. So what is a fact and does not contribute to this situation and fuel prices in the Republic of Croatia is that we and our oil production actually give to the Hungarians, although this share of production is only 20% of our consumption needs. But even we do it wrong, so we give our oil to another country, and then we import more expensive oil at more expensive prices for our country and our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70382	You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mr. Josip Boric's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Zeljko Pavić then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70383	There should be Minister Maric here today to enjoy the praises a little, since he listened to criticism all day yesterday. Today would be a lot easier for him to cheer up a little bit, make him feel better. What I wanted to comment on are the questions that need to be addressed by this law. The first question is that what you put first is, in fact, informing the system of movement within the EU of cost products released into production, pardons released into consumption. I said that we welcome this and that all those who have contact with the economics who are obliged to teach documents related to excise duties know that these are complex jobs and that there are often mistakes. And that informing these systems will definitely help the economy and avoid mistakes on the part of the economy, while at the same time facilitating the control and control of excise duties on products released into consumption. I have already said that, of course, I welcome the article 49, which actually eliminates those current excise duties on cooking pots, those up to 100 liters and 200 liters, and that our citizens in traditional production will be able to continue producing fruit brandy without paying excise duty, of course if it is produced up to 50 liters of brandy and if it is for their own personal needs, the basic needs of their family, family members and their guests, which is very good. Because first of all, we encourage traditional production and preserve some tradition. Furthermore, just before we had a question about the introduction of common thresholds on a partial deficit or loss of excise products in view of the properties of goods. So far, it's been attributed to regulations, I think, in the customs administration. And it is obvious that we must conform to what is prescribed by Europe and that these standards are the same which is not bad. I think that if we fit those standards that Europe has that we will be better off, that is, we will be able to deal with this Europe more easily. Another issue that is being arranged is the release from paying excise duty on strong alcoholic beverages, excuse me, it's the prescription of new institutes an independent small producer of other drinks obtained by boiling, a further independent small producer among products and an independent small wine producer with the possibility of applying reduced excise duty, which is also good because up to a large number of hectolitres, our producers will be differently taxed or will pay different excise duties. All in all, when we look at this law, I think that it went largely on the hands of our economies, it went in one piece to our hands and our citizens, so our amateurs made alcoholic beverages that actually produced it at home so far, and they had to pay the excise duty and that's not the problem, it's not the problem of those 100 kunas, the problem that you have to meet, fill out that payment card, go to pay, on the other hand, is the problem that some administrative work and business that actually did not bring any big financial effect. So I think that we should welcome it, and the whole law actually fully accepts it as such, with what I said, with that article. 59, to consider, to take a look, is that okay or maybe you should change something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70384	Mr. Lalovac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70385	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I listened very carefully to your debate, so here's how you comment here is exactly how we're actually talking about the European Commission having initiated proceedings against Croatia because we had the release of 50 liters of brandy, right. And now we've imposed this on the entire EU and we're actually changing excise duties, this part of the excise tax code, we're changing not only us, right, but the whole EU based on our own that everyone in Europe can now have up to 50 liters of brandy. Right? As far as I understand it, where we got support from neighbors as far as I could see, where exactly what was actually mentioned, one part of the small traditional not only business but culture, where we all said something couldn't be changed, that the European Commission imposed some bureaucratic standards all the time, I think here Croatia still fought for some small traditional values that They're joining the EU, so I'd like to ask you a comment. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70386	... rakia... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70387	Well, this is just another piece of evidence that it might affect European legislation if you have a good idea. It's not true that in Europe you don't drink alcohol, you drink alcohol but they're not... We were the first to think... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here, the whole of Europe has accepted it, the whole of Europe has accepted it and has actually realized that it is easier and better for them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, look, everyone here including me, all of us who have our own fruit home, we have a vineyard, we have a plum, normally to bake brandy. We just had to report that boiler, I don't have it in some large quantities but you need to report the boiler, you need to roast the brandy, if there comes control, you need to show di that brandy stands, if you left something last year, then there are problems, etc., etc. I think this is far better and simpler, but you'd ask the secretary, secretary, what happens if one year we bake no brandy because there was no fruit, and next year we bake 100 liters of brandy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70388	Thank you very much, thank you very much. But it's more important that we influence Europe. Mr. Joseph Begonja is on his way now. Let it not be said that Europe alone affects us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70389	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, the Director of the Customs Administration, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here we have heard through the debates the good opinions and attitudes of individual constituency clubs, individual colleagues and colleagues who have come to the debate on this topic in connection with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxation Act, which will be supported by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ and how we had the opportunity to hear, and some other clubs. Although our excise duty law is in line with the EU acquis regarding a harmonised excise tax system for alcohol and alcoholic beverages, tobacco processing, energy and electricity, new changes in the EU acquis require further harmonisation of our laws with this acquis. It is, as indicated, a series of EU Directives adopted from 2019 and 2020 that must be implemented in our legal system by the end of the current year. It has been said several times today, but here again I think it is important to remind myself of the quality of the proposed amendments to the Excise Tax Act. First of all, these amendments and additions do not relate to the legal and technical harmonisation of the Institute of Excise Law with changes in EU customs legislation. In addition, it is about informing the system of movement of excise products released into consumption within the EU, which aims at administratively dispensing shareholders in the trade in goods with economic operators from other EU countries, and to move to e-business, which will not only modernise and replace the paper system, but also simplify it and speed up business processes. Furthermore, these amendments and additions to the law also introduce common thresholds and partially shortfall or loss of excise products resulting from the process of movement of goods to which this shortfall or loss will be considered a tax-recognized deficit or loss. These amendments and amendments to the laws also introduce certain exemptions from the payment of excise duties. As already stated, the compulsory exemption is from paying excise duties on products within the category of alcohol and alcoholic beverages when such products are used in the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products, etc. optionally released when used as a food supplement. What was most said and almost all the speakers and advocates who came forward were bound by the exemption from paying excise duty to strong alcoholic beverages produced by a small producer of strong alcoholic beverages produced from fruit provided that it was produced by a natural person for the consumption or consumption of members of his household or his guests up to 50 liters of brandy per year, as well as the release from paying these cobwebs, so to speak, 100 and 200 kuna respectively, depending on the volume of the boiler. For small producers who produce for their own purposes this release will, of course, contribute to their sustainability, but also to the existence of traditional fruit brandy production in rural households. Furthermore, new institutes are also prescribed to amend and supplement the law. In addition, in the case of independent small producers, it was that the other beverages obtained by boiling, then the production of the inter-product, or wine producers, up to a certain quantity of hectolitres per year. They are given the possibility to apply a reduced excise duty of 50% of the national prescribed level and thus raise their level of competitiveness when they deliver alcoholic beverages to other EU Member States which recognise the status of independent small producers. Finally, as regards the financial impact of the government, this amendment and the addition of the laws relating to the exemption from payment and to the reduction of excise duty will leave around 5 to 5.5 million kuna at the annual level at the disposal of current excise bonds of that payment, as so much less will be made available to the state budget. And once again, I would like to point out that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this government's proposal for a law amending the Expenses Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70390	Thank you very much. We're going to final discussions, the Social Democrats Club and Mr. Zeljko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70391	Here I would just like a few more sentences, what I haven't been able to say before, which is actually an appeal to the Director of the Customs Administration to publish this link or connection to the institution that will provide information for the integration of information systems that people have, have users or economicists on their behalf together with the APIS system, so that this job is easier to do, on the one hand. On the other hand, I suggest, I don't know if you'll accept it or not, since our fellow citizens aren't following the People's Newspapers and they're not exactly in the process of changing the law, and especially not with the Excise Law, I suggest that all those bonds that have so far paid these excise duties on boilers up to 100 liters, 200 liters to send them a circulatory letter that they don't have to pay anymore because they'll still be coming with payments and paying, so there'll be a later return of those funds, and there's no need for that to actually happen. These are purely practical things since our fellow citizens have far, far more important jobs than monitoring the National Journals and changing the legislation. As far as the law is concerned, I think we've already praised him enough by other clubs and by our club. We believe that, that all changes are to be welcomed, that changes are fine, and we, as Social Democrats, will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70392	Thank you, too. And now, in the end and on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr Zdravko Zrinasic at the Ministry of Finance, of course, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70393	Thank you very much, Vice President. And lastly, I wanted to thank, first of all, for the constructive debate of all MPs and MPs, of course, for all the suggestions and comments made in this debate that the Ministry of Finance will consider and see what can be done here if these suggestions result in this need. Here I'd just like a few details, and instead of 85 million kunas, I read 8.5 million kunas, and everything else stands. So 75% charged through the institutes by a criminal order without objection, that includes all costs. As far as this suggestion is concerned by the honourable representative regarding the article. In the 59th time of taking a vehicle, the Institute itself was taken over by the Foreign Exchange Act, which already knows that norm. The point is that whoever is taken away there is always smuggling and something that has been achieved by smuggling, so if a vehicle is taken away then otherwise the procedure should be followed by an emergency procedure and not sold before the procedure is completed. If, in that case, this one would lack the money to collect the determined liabilities then the vehicle would be sold and, of course, we would now look at the context as you said, 8th century 8th, if this was all well done to the end, but I'm saying it's a taken norm from the Foreign Exchange Act, so I believe that it should be all right. As regards other suggestions in terms of not entering the VAT on the basis of the excise duty calculation, it is clear to all of us that the European Directive does not allow this. Of course the suggestions came well, but what is prescribed by the European legislation whose member we are as a country is, is so. Perhaps I should remind you again, so the excise duty that is now in terms of Euro diesel 3.06 kuna and petrol 3.86 kuna is at a quantity. So that amount is always the same. If tomorrow the price of one liter will be 100 kuna, the excise duty will still be 3.06. So, the meaning of floating excise duties does not exist without regulation of the price itself, selling prices and, in that sense, I was and was and said that next week there will be EKOFIN means a meeting of all EU finance ministers at a point below the regular number of 4 at least as regards the materials we have in the Republic of Croatia is also a package of measures to act and support in the context of changes in energy prices and inflation where a package of measures of the European Commission that would be applied at each country level individually. Of course, it is not prohibited for the Government of the Republic of Croatia or any other government to take any other measures if they consider that they are necessary in terms of both speed and impact on the taxpayers and the economy themselves. So anyway, all this stuff that's been put out, I think it was more than constructive. Thank you again for your presentation and suggestions and I'll see you next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70394	Thank you. Mr. Pavic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70395	Mr. Secretary, let me explain what I've learned from this article. I realized, in fact, that a vehicle can be taken away for the purpose of charging a violation of what the law says. If that is true, if this is to be done within 3 days, and the perpetrator has the right to appeal to the Supreme Court or to go to court. If the court reduces that penalty, so we're not talking about a misdemeanor, the second is when it comes to excise duties, the excise duty can't be changed, so there's no problem. So I realized it was taken to collect the offense. In that case, it might actually happen that the Supreme Court reduces the sentence, and that... the vehicle and charge the fine of the council we prescribed, I'm just doing it if it's true to consider it. ... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70396	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70397	Thank you very much. I think we understand each other now, and we can explain it more in detail. So the Foreign Exchange Act provides for the possibility of withdrawing money which is the subject of some kind of act in terms of smuggling or so on. And that money, of course, comes back eventually. However, if it is such a proportion of the acts that lead, some other actions may be conducted, it may only end up on the offense. In the law itself, it is also a measure that this money can be used before returning to beating... funds for the settlement of any offence or act expressed in cash. [[You don't understand.]] So that's the point. But if there are any other misunderstandings, of course we'll work and see if that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70398	Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, first reading, P.Z. Number 190 is about first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Stephen Curaj is with us. Here you go. The secretary of state, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70401	I thank the esteemed Vice President, respected MPs and respected representatives, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies. I'm just gonna brief the introduction on the matter itself. So what I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to remind myself that the banking union was created in response to the financial crisis in 2008, and consequently the public debt crisis in the euro area when it became clear that the problems caused by the high linkage between the state and the banking sector could easily be spilled into the outside borders as they would say. Therefore, the objective of the banking union itself is to ensure the resilience and stability of the banking sector in the euro area and the whole of the European Union, which of course contributes to strengthening financial stability and to ensuring the resolution of banks without the use of taxpayers' money. So we're actually going to have one of the instruments to resuscitate the so-called. which is the introduction of a balling or internal recovery instrument, so something which the bank provides in the event of a resolution that it can also help or regulate the procedure itself. Of course, all of this is with a view to having a minimal impact on the real economy and just reducing market fragmentation by harmonising the rules themselves. Bank otherwise, the Union means two pillars. Therefore, a centralised control system or a unique control mechanism. That, too later, I'll just say something about it and, of course, a common system of bank recovery or a unique recovery mechanism. Within the single sanity mechanism since the very theme of the Resuscitation Act is the very theme of the Resuscitation Act we have the Unique Resuscitation Committee, the National Resuscitation Authorities and the Unique Resuscitation Fund. So these are the subject of regulation of this law and the way the Single Resilience Fund actually works. As a joint recovery fund, the target level should be at least 1% of the amount of the secured deposits of all credit institutions authorised to work in all Member States of the banking union. These are as a rule all members of the European Union except Sweden. So those who are in the euro area are bonds, and the rest of course can be themselves. We became last year I think it was July 20th or July 10th. Now, what's the point of this bill? It is of course to improve the application of the applicable Law in practice with several you see yourself from the material of targeted changes and additions that have proved necessary after the Republic of Croatia became a member of this unique mechanism itself, i.e. I think it was even in October of last year. So, as far as specific changes are concerned. For decisions on a recovery programme, which is a single recovery committee, it makes for an institution under its direct responsibility, and as a rule, the European Bank controls our 6 largest banks and 2 savings institutions, savings and credits. In this part, it also has powers over which it exercises recovery, and from this it was actually seen that this bank which has been found to fail or is likely to fail, and there is a public interest in the recovery of the CNB also has to make a formally repeated decision, not just implementing decisions. Therefore, one technical change that has been seen in the implementation section itself. It is also necessary to make amendments to the applicable law which will not allow for that distinction between the institution and the entities directly responsible for the Single Resuscitation Committee and those for which it is not. So since we have this division of responsibilities and the division of surveillance, this is just a coordination between two supervisory bodies, or two resolution bodies. So we have a CNB here and a single recovery committee that's in charge of self-recovery, which decisions are to be made. This proposal also provides for equal treatment in practice with regard to the determination of the conditions that preceding the application of powers to reduce the value or to convert the relevant instruments of capital and subject to obligations in relation to significant and minor credit institutions, since such a determination is... the institution shall implement the European Central Bank as specified by the competent authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, the definition of the relevant body is changed in order to use the term CNB, i.e. HANFA when it comes to these investment bodies that they have in their capacity as the competent authority. This proposal also equalises the specific expression of nomotechnical proposals. Here are the minor changes which determine what we have committed a year ago and what on our way as a member of the euro area, so that we will normally fully comply with EU directives and regulations. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70402	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac is replicating you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70403	Thank you very much. Just a technical question. This unique recovery committee means when he formally starts with someone, with their work etc. Let's know, we're hoping we're through a crisis right now, there's no bad jobs in banks, etc. However, since this is one final phase of stabilisation, i.e. the entire and banking union, and that for a long time this was actually to be discussed at EU level and then waited a long time for it to work. Do you have any information when they're actually starting to apply really. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70404	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70405	Here's a thank you. I think we had a few weeks ago about the single recovery fund itself and the deposits we were reducing, we were reducing that deadline here that was in 2024, so it's early. So, what we expect to achieve is the target funds of which I have said one percent of all, the overall secured deposit, all the secured institutions that are set until 2023. So we could parallelly in our entry into the euro zone and this part could have everything regulated. So the only question left is the insurance of these deposits and the achievement of that minimum.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70406	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Zvonimir Troscott on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Boris Lalovec will speak in front of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70407	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. As has already been said here by this law we were actually actually speaking, harmonising and actually mentioning that this is some final phase of the banking union. Another positive regulation, although this is not a concrete alignment with the directive, seems to me. Right? This is P.Z. Harmony, good. This single EU-level legislation, especially if we know that more than 90% of banking assets in Croatia are related to banks actually owned by the European Bank, their nuts are mainly within the European Union, mostly euro areas. And Croatia's entry into the euro in 2023 will in yet another way even these legislative proposals will be harmonised by all regulations and there should be no more major amendments. If there is any disturbance in the financial market where small countries such as Croatia where there is no strong capital base, there will be no capital outflows in other countries. And that's very important for both deposit insurance and bank recovery. It's a sea of regulations. It is not simple, it needs to be harmonised at EU level. But it is a very positive regulation and contributes to the stabilisation of both the economy and the financial system. Because we saw what a crisis like a covid crisis, like any form of crisis like it was in 2008 could do to the economy. So what was in 2008 Croatia was recovering for 10 years even though the banks in Croatia were not directly damaged. However, the whole crisis in the banking sector has sparked a recession in the Republic of Croatia that lasted six, seven years. And then you don't have the mechanisms to get out of that crisis as soon as possible. Now it has also appeared after the CNB's report that the resilience and economy but also the resilience of the banking sector is much higher and these mechanisms are actually what you have actually said to the bail and mechanisms where banks will ultimately face these excessive risks if some risky plasmas have entered, they themselves, first their owners will have to resuscitate them and only then will the citizens and thus stabilise that part of the transfer of excessive risks to end-users, i.e. the state budget. So this Sanitation Act here, through what you've said, through harmony, is just giving an additional kind of formal power actually to the CNB in which you have to make a decision about opening a recovery procedure for banks that are directly responsible for the single resolution board, because decisions by the Single Sanitation Committee don't have a direct effect on the institutions of the participating Member States, but the effect must be given to them by a national resolution body, is that, if it can be transmitted very quickly, that it can be reacted to panic, that the Sanitary Body is aware of the steps and that there is no need now to have any kind of procedure or any errors in the process, if it is possible to react very quickly, that it can react to panic, that the Sanitation Body is responding to the steps and that there is no need to be any kind of action now, that there is not some kind of procedure or any kind of error in order to be made when a single recovery committee, or a single resolution body, or when it is actually a strong, when it is necessary to react, which is in which is a strong, which is the structural body, which is a strong, which is in fact, which is a strong, which is a strong, which is the law. I've actually asked the question here, in 2023, we need to turn that fund somewhere, we're talking about 1% of the funds, it seems to me that our fund already has more than 1%, you saw yesterday in the budget implementation, the budget rebalancing, that DAB or the bank rehabilitation agency seems to have paid me in the $1.4 billion budget, it seems to me, 1.7 have been paid, is that, in fact, no one noticed it yesterday, there was one item, looking at 2.5 billion kuna from VAT that higher income, etc., but the item below was that, who was reading, that it was actually in the explanation that the DAB agency had paid them back to the state budget, which everyone in this crisis is now welcome and the budget, and the DAB at this point, because they had the funds provided, that gave them some stability. But in order to avoid confusion, that money in DAB is being paid by banks, right, banks are paying in DAB that money and DAB is because the Croatian state was the founder of it and because of these conditions and the reduction of theirs, they are now returning one part of the money to the budget and that is the positive effect of this legislative proposal, right? So here, we certainly support these amendments to the law, and we think that in times of crisis and times like this, it should be brought into good times for banks if they come into the future again to some crisis times where they will be able to react spotily to know everyone who is the role of the CNB, who is the role of the HANFA, who are the resolution bodies, how they are going towards the single rehabilitation committee at EU level, how much they are paid there, that there are no withdrawals of certain funds, I don't know if some banks fail to say in Austria so that there is a withdrawal of money from Croatia to Austria, that they can't be saved, then problems in Croatia, etc., that's why harmonisation of all these relations is important, and that's where we don't have, even if we don't own a bank that we't have protection, that this capital can't go away so quickly over the night, so that they can do damage in Croatia. This is very important that we have not been, but always the owner can withdraw that capital overnight then leave problems in the national markets, especially small countries, and therefore certainly another contribution of the single European market for Croatia and I agree with both the euro and the savings insurance and let's not forget up to 100,000 is ensured, we think that this is all easy, but this is a good amount for individual people who are saving, that the money is safe, see how the crisis comes overnight, crashes and comes to inflation, comes to the withdrawal of money, I think these are positive regulations for Croatia, Europe has learned a lot from the crisis in 2008, it has learned a lot more than America, they bring much stricter laws, much more regulation in this action, but believe, ultimately and also save some resources because when there is a certain crisis, that we have strong legislation, that we have strong mechanisms in resistance, and this SDP club will maintain this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70408	Thank you very much. Mr. Josip Begonja will represent the positions of the HDZ Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70409	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Government's proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. This draft law will support the HDZ club and I would only briefly refer to the fact that last year we have already passed amendments and additions to the legislation in question which included part of the risk reduction package and which has brought national legislation into line with the EU acquis and thus continued further reform of the banking system at national and EU level with a view to strengthening its resilience and the ability of banks to respond to possible shocks. Respecting the fact of the existence of several rehabilitation bodies as well as the situation of establishing close cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Central Bank of the Republic of Croatia, it became a member, a judge in a single banking union, which forms a single supervisory mechanism, a single rehabilitation mechanism, and is thus ordered to take over the power of recovery of credit institutions by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency over investment companies, and the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency is the body run by the National Renaissance Fund. The unique rehabilitation mechanism consists of an EU-wide resolution body, hence the single recovery committee and the joint recovery fund a single recovery fund and the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in a single rehabilitation mechanism entails and the responsibility of the single recovery committee for the effective and consistent functioning of the Single Sanitary Mechanism. But also that the single resolution committee becomes directly responsible for the exercise of restitutional powers over part of credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, when it comes to credit institutions and groups of credit institutions for which the single resolution committee has become directly responsible, the national resolution authority shall implement those decisions and instructions of the Single Sanitary Committee. As regards the level of the single recovery fund, it has already been indicated that it amounts to at least one per cent of the amount of deposits of all credit institutions authorised in all participating Member States. Each year, after consulting the European Central Bank or the national competent authority, and in close cooperation with the National Resuscitation Authority, the Single Resuscitation Board shall calculate the individual contributions that each institution must pay on the basis of the annual target level of the Single Sanitary Fund. In this context, the single resolution committee shall inform the national authority of its decisions on the calculation of the annual contributions of institutions authorised to work in their national areas and they shall inform each credit institution. With regard to the amount to be transferred to the single recovery fund in this year, the single resolution committee estimates that the Republic of Croatia should pay less than one percent of the secured deposits. In order to ensure that this reduction in the total commitment to the single recovery fund is applied accordingly to the credit institutions to which EU Regulation 806 of 2014 applies. The European Parliament and the Council will ensure that these proposed amendments and additions to the provisions of the applicable law laying down the target level of the Sanitary Fund are made to ensure that, for them, the Single Renaissance Committee calculates the amount of contribution to achieve the target level of the Single Sanitary Fund. Furthermore, this proposal for a law also implements several more amendments that ensure better application of the law in practice. Thus, prior to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the single rehabilitation mechanism, preparatory actions were carried out, including communication with the Single Sanitation Committee, and in this communication there was an incorrect understanding of the legal effects, the decision of the Single Sanitation Committee, in particular the impact of the decision on the recovery programme taken by the Single Resuscitation Board on the credit institution under its direct responsibility, which was found to be failing or likely to fail, but there is a public interest in its recovery. It was subsequently found that the CNB must actually formally make such a renewed decision on the recovery programme, not only of the implementing decisions, and that the decisions of the Single Sanitary Committee do not have a direct effect on credit institutions in the Member States, but rather the impact of those decisions must be given by the national resolution authority. For the purposes of the provisions of the applicable law, amendments shall be made and provisions shall be complemented which shall not distinguish between institutions and entities directly responsible for the single recovery committee and those institutions and entities for which it is not directly responsible. Therefore, this proposal for a law is aimed at equating practices with regard to the division of credit institutions by the European Central Bank to those which are significant and to those which are less relevant for the development of differences in conduct. Therefore, these changes to the law under a defined term are used by the Croatian National Bank, or the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, by the concept of a competent authority, thereby equating the treatment of significant credit institutions with the treatment of minor institutions for which the Croatian National Bank, i.e. the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, is established but now in the capacity of the competent authority, not the Sanacia Authority. Well, that's it. This proposal for a law ensures that that reduction of the total obligation to pay the Republic of Croatia into a single recovery fund is properly transferred to the institutions to which the EU Regulation 806/2014 applies. and for this purpose, it is prescribed that the single recovery committee is calculated for those institutions to achieve the target level of the single recovery fund. Furthermore, the proposal to amend the law ensures equal treatment in practice with respect to significant and minor credit institutions also in relation to the legal effects of the decision of the Single Sanitary Committee, and given that it has legal power it needs to be given to the national resolution authority in order to have an effect on credit institutions. Amendments to the law shall ensure that the CNB has powers over all credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the direct responsibility of the Single Sanancies Committee. Finally, this proposal also provides for a better nomotechnical arrangement of certain articles in the existing law. As I pointed out in the introduction, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support this government's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70410	Thank you, too. Mr. Zeljko Pavić, Social Democrats' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70411	Dear Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, here we are again, discussing the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. Namely, just to remind you that we discussed this same law a little more than a year ago, I think that it has been more than a year, perhaps a year and a month, and then, in accordance with the obligation of continued harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU, we should bring our current law in line with Directive 2019/879 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2014/59 as regards the capacity to cover losses and capitalisation of credit institutions and investment companies and Directive 28/26. At that time, one reason for you to amend the existing Law on the Rehabilitation of Institutions was to implement TLS standards in EU legislation. This is a standard established by the Financial Stability Committee, and demands from globally systemic important institutions that can be found in our documents as GSV institutions continuously maintained up to a sufficient amount of liabilities to cover losses and capitalisation of the institution in recovery. This law, which came into force on January 1st, brought the Croatian legislation into line with the EU acquis, but it also arranged a new division of resolution powers since the date of the establishment of a close cooperation of the CNB with the European Central Bank of the Republic of Croatia, became a participating Member State in the single rehabilitation mechanism. In addition, it is also prescribed that the resolution authorities are authorised to exercise the powers to resuscitate and implement resuscitation instruments in the Republic of Croatia over the entities referred to in Article 3 of that Act for which the Single Resilience Board is not directly responsible in accordance with the field of power, in fact, the CNB as a resolution body for a credit institution that is not part of a group and group in which at least one member of the group is a credit institution or a Croatian financial service supervisory agency as a financial institution for an investment company other than a group and a group in which at least one member is an investment company group, and no member of the group is a credit institution. Did I hit the secretaries? In July 2020, the Republic of Croatia became a member of a banking union formed by a single supervisory mechanism, a single rehabilitation mechanism, since the close cooperation of the CNB with the European Central Bank and a single rehabilitation mechanism, which represents the second pillar of the banking union, was then established, in fact, a resolution body at EU level, which is the Unique Renaissance Committee and the Joint Renaissance Fund, i.e. the Single Renaissance Fund. The number of resolution authorities has been reduced and the procedure for the implementation of the rehabilitation powers between the resolution authorities within the Republic of Croatia has been speeded up, and in particular in cooperation with the single resolution committee, which continuously cooperates with the national resolution authorities and in the case of decisions taken for entities directly responsible and in the decision-making process by the national resolution authorities. In addition, in the case of credit institutions and groups of credit institutions for which the single resolution committee has become directly responsible or the national resolution authority shall implement the decisions and instructions of the Single Sanitary Fund of the Board. What is significant to us is that the Unity Renaissance Fund must be at least 1% of the amount of the secured deposits of all credit institutions authorised in all participating Member States, and the individual contributions that each institution must make to each institution shall be calculated each year after consulting the European Central Bank or the national competent authority, and in cooperation with the National Renaissance Authority shall inform the National Authority thereof. So, the process is long-term, there are a lot of factors involved in this process, it is complex, demanding and it also has bodies at the level of Europe and national bodies as well as the institutions themselves. It was subsequently understood that the CNB had to make a formal decision, not only of the implementing decisions, since the decisions of the Unity Sanitary Committee had no direct effect on the institutions of the participating Member States but had to be given the effect of being given by the national resolution authority, so it was necessary to make changes in force that would not make a distinction between the institutions and the entities directly responsible for the Unity Reanitary Committee and those for which it would not exercise its powers over all the institutions and entities in the Republic of Croatia independently of the responsibility of that institution. Therefore, what my colleague Lalovac has already mentioned, this proposal should also ensure that the secretary-in-law is equal to the treatment in practice with regard to determining the conditions which precede the application of the powers to reduce the value or to convert relevant instruments of capital and subject to obligations in relation to the meaning and disadvantages of a significant credit institution and, teachingly, to change the defined concept, that relevant body with regard to cross-border groups for which the resolution college and mutual cooperation of the parts of the EU themselves are established. What is important and significant to us is that, in fact, our institutions will be paying funds to the single recovery fund, that we will have greater security, that our institutions will have greater security in their work and we expect that legal concessions to decisions of the single Sanantia Committee, as stated in the law, will give legal power to the national resolution authority in order to have an effect on these institutions and therefore this bill should ensure that the CNB has powers over all credit institutions in the Republic. I am also convinced our club that our institutions' participation in the payment of contributions to the single fund will provide themselves with greater security in business and greater security for our citizens who are stakeholders in these credit institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70412	Thank you, Mr. Pavić. Now Mrs Ursha Raukar Gamulin will represent the views of the Green-left bloc's Green-Left Club in this law, the bill of law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and addition to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. The Green-Left bloc club welcomes the fact that after the major financial crisis in 2008, which peaked with the notification of Lehman Brothers bankruptcy on September 15th, we remember it in 2008, and that this led to stronger regulation of banks, credit institutions and investment companies. And even today, we remember that the excessive speculation of irresponsible people in the financial sector as well as the irrational lending of loans without cover to the private and public sectors has led to a global collapse of the economy. We also remember how the recovery of financial institutions, huge financial transactions, of course public money was carried out in the accounts of private financial institutions. It was especially painful to see individuals responsible for the collapse of the global economy, receiving astronomical bonuses this time for their role in the recovery of the fallen economy, whose collapse of course contributed greatly to themselves. Lessons from this crisis need to be well embedded in new legislation, this was also a motivation launched at European level, to adopt a package of risk mitigation measures, etc. The RRM package (risk reduction measures) and it is good that preventive mechanisms at EU level have started to work because major disturbances in the financial sector require strong global responses rather than just local actors' answers. And in that sense, we have recently unanimously adopted in this House the amendments to the transfer and unification of contributions to the single recovery fund, which we have given stronger powers to the European Single Renaissance Committee, which will co-operate with our National Renaissance Body. This law introduces changes for a better quality, i.e. a more precise division of responsibilities and cooperation between national entities with the European recovery entity. But here as a green-left bloc club, as well as in this debate on the European recovery single fund, we would like to reiterate that stronger regulation of the unfair and speculative business of financial institutions that brought the world back to the global economic crisis, so in 2008. It is clear that this law comes into force only when a financial collapse occurs, but the law itself is too little to understand that it is actually responsible for the financial collapse and does not sanction those who are later responsible for bringing the financial institution into bankruptcy, so unfortunately the possibility of repeating that shameful situation with enormous bonuses is open to those who have cooked the financial breakdown of the institution concerned. The understanding of the financial collapse process must also be integrated into the recovery processes in order to avoid the resolution being carried out in a way that rewards those responsible for this financial bankruptcy. If we want to prevent new financial crises caused by irresponsible business of financial institutions, it is not enough to work only to regulate resolutions but also to regulate the business of financial institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70414	Thank you, too. Mr. Josip Begonja will represent the positions of HDZ Representatives' Club in the final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70415	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, through the debate, we heard from individual clubs, colleagues and colleagues on the subject of the Government's draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment funds, which I said at the beginning of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support. And without much intention of repeating everything I've already said, all that you've said, I think it's important at this point just to point out the following. This proposal provides for a reduction of the total obligation to pay the Republic of Croatia into a single recovery fund, and therefore requires that the single recovery committee is calculated for these institutions to achieve the target level of the single recovery fund. Furthermore, this proposal provides for equal treatment in practice with respect to significant and minor credit institutions and entities in the Republic of Croatia directly responsible for the single resolution committee and those institutions and entities for which it is not directly responsible, and therefore uses the notion of a competent authority these amendments to the law under a defined term, thus equating treatment for significant credit institutions carried out by the European Central Bank, which is, in the context of the resolution, the competent authority with the treatment of minor institutions, which is also determined by the Croatian National Bank, i.e. the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency but now in the capacity of the competent authority, and not by the Sanantial Authority. Also in relation to the legal effects of decisions of the Single Sanancies Committee, since it has legal power, it should be given to the National Reanimation Authority in order to have an effect on credit institutions by amending this law, it shall be ensured that the Croatian National Bank has powers over all credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the direct responsibility of the Single Sanancies Committee. Finally, this proposal also provides for a better nomotechnical arrangement of certain articles in the existing law. Finally, once again, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70416	You, too. Mrs. Oreshkovic will represent the final views of the CENTR and GLAS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70417	I would like to thank the chairman, my colleagues and my colleagues. Well, there is nothing particularly controversial about the provisions of this law, but it seems that his intentions and provisions are quite useful and clear. However, our legal history shows that whenever we transpose something well from EU legislation into our unregulated legal system, something goes wrong. So speaking of how we're going to take care of the insolvency of financial institutions and how we're going to get rid of them if that's necessary, I'm wondering if anyone's taking care of how we're going to protect their customers and clients. There is a topic that is hardly being discussed in our political space, and even less at the level of competent institutions, which is the way in which the leasing of companies has been fraudd. So, recently, the media wrote about how last summer, HANFA sent the collected documentation on Raiffeisen Leasing to the Municipal State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb for further action on the grounds of a reasonable suspicion of committing a criminal offence from the domain of economic crimes. And that's when the DORH investigation was about to begin. However, a year later, the reconnaissances are still in their more or less initial phase. So, after Sanja Mekinović as former employee and the same RBA Leasing house reported the whole case, she submitted the documentation on the basis of which the regulator established irregularities and illegalities had in some way led to institutional silence. So the first solution of HANFA against a leasing society was made precisely for her knowledge, and she found that it was a fraud that weighs more than 700, stressing 700 million kuna. Without her, that fraud would never have been discovered or proven. However, it concerns the fact that according to the regulators' decisions, or HANFA's, this same Leasing House will have to return to clients, or a bank that owns the Leasing House, only slightly more than 20 million kuna. So how did that happen? So, leasing houses are mahogany owned by banks, and contrary to signed contracts, and completely unfoundedly began to increase payment rates for users of leasing. The fraud was found in the period from 2008 to 2020 but many will not be able to get their money because HANFA already claims that most of these cases are obsolete. In an extensive interview published by the Index Mekinovic weekly, she explained that there were two client lists at the time. In that first one were privileged clients and large corporations that the bank feared could reveal the fraud and they were counted correctly by the wars of leasing, and the second list of clients was those under the quotes of ordinary people who deliberately cheated on them especially this RBA leasing company because it felt that they would not be able to detect them. However, some in that other group of ordinary clients discovered fraud, and then RBA made deals with them so that other clients would not find out they were paying more than they should. All this was known by the Supervisory Board, led by today's president of the Croatian Banks Association Zdenko Adrovic. In addition, Mekinovic discovered that the Ministry of Finance has also given all its information and all its knowledge and the Ministry of Finance has the Department of Leasing Control, however, it has not responded at all to this performance and evidence against Leasing companies. The head of HANFA's management department is Ljiljana Maric, sister of Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. What's the problem? In the fact that this country is well aware of the interest of large systems, especially banking and investment companies, but what about protecting the interests of consumers and ordinary citizens? RBA leasing case is one of those on which the rule of law also fell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70418	You, too. Mr. Zeljko Pavić, the final club of Social Democrats Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70419	Thank you very much. Here's the thing: I don't know which of the colleagues and colleagues here said that the law only comes into force when one of the banks collapses, it's not true, namely, the law goes into effect as it's written in law, and the activation of this unique Sanantia fund funding of that unique sanaci fund actually starts in case something happens in a particular credit institution or an investment company. As I have said in my presentation, I believe that this EU-level unification will contribute to the greater security of our credit institutions, to the greater security of our investment societies, and to all those who are stakeholders in these societies, regardless of whether it is credit institutions or whether it is investment funds. I think that whenever it comes to laws like this, as we approach Europe, when we adopt the positive legislation that comes to us from Europe, we should all comment on it together in one positive light, especially if this rose is further security for both our institutions and our fellow citizens who share in these institutions. As for the Social Democrats Club, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70420	Thank you very much. And finally the motionary, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Stjepan Curaj probably wants to thank you, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70421	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, Vice-President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. As always, only briefly, a summary of the debate itself, really without any intention of further discussion. As far as individual representatives are concerned, the esteemed representative Lalovac, I think, has very well detected what I have said in the opening statement, which is the meaning of the banking union itself, the protection of risks and ways in which Europe has decided to deal with the consequences and causes of the financial crisis itself in 2008, something that Commissioner Raukar Gamulin noted as a matter of importance, that what has been two main objectives and directions which, for many years, European institutions or European financial institutions have been going to, and this is one side of enabling the better flow of financial activities, and thus causing increased economic activity with more parallel protection and more security and all mechanisms. I think the banking union is one of those, I said it at first, it doesn't seem to have, the financial crisis doesn't know the borders, and I think it's one of the quality ways of protecting itself. The esteemed representative Begonja explained the entire system itself as a bank union in terms of how it works. As far as I'm concerned, I'll just fill it out for a little while. As for the single Sanacia Committee in Croatia, there are 6 banking institutions and 3 savings, so Addiko, Erste, Privredna, Raiffeisen, Sberbanka and Zagrebačka banka and PBZ residential savings, Raiffeisen residential and Wustenrot residential savings. These are institutions which are directly supervised by a single resolution or supervisory committee, as regards supervision or recovery. As far as surveillance is concerned, it is something that has been respected by Raukar Gamulin's representative as a need for something that is very important, and this is exactly what was done, that direct supervision of the ECB goes to these 6 large banks and two other housing savings banks, these 6 that I have already mentioned, and there are Raiffeisen and PBZ housing savings. So, of our 20 credit institutions, 3 residential savings banks and one branch of foreign banks operating on the market itself. As for the esteemed representative Pavic and the payment of funds, I think it's very well detected. As the esteemed representative of Lalovac noted, at the establishment of the DAB itself, now HAUD, HAOD is the third institution in Croatia to take care of the banking union with HNB, HANFA and there is, in fact, the HAOD itself, only there to mention that HANFA is leading as a resolution body responsible for internal capital, securities and Agram brokere d.d., HAOD is the one that collects these funds and at the establishment, the state has originally left there a certain part of the funds that have been acquired through the operations of the banks during the year and have now returned that amount to our budget this year. It's a system of how it works. As for some additional here from the debate, the distinguished representative Oreskovic has been troubled by the work of leasing companies, I think that there has been a reaction by the competent authority that you must know that, we have 2 independent supervisory authorities and a monitoring system, in addition to this, this European so when we talk about the supervisory supervision of the European Central Bank there is also the CNB for credit institutions and HANFA for financial institutions that come in addition to other financial institutions and Leasing societies and they have responded according to their applications and they carry out the procedure independently of the ministry itself. We're actually allowed to say that in some way, to interfere with certain powers. So, in conclusion, I think you've mentioned more what we're expected to do in this, it's not a transposition but rather a better technical harmonisation of the existing law to have an operationally technically correct absolute law that has been seen in these last year what these changes should be made to now mention them to everyone and thank you once again for participating in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70422	Mr. Lalovac, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70423	Thank you very much. When you've listed these six banks they've probably chosen these systemically important banks this... It's just a question of whether or not it will, my question is whether it's going to expand in this respect now, because there are about 30 of these financial institutions in Croatia. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Whether you have information on whether it will expand or remain on these six systemically important banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70424	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70425	Here I thank you for my information so far there are no announcements of any extensions regarding the power, supervision of the SB, so they stay on these 6 let's say that is the easiest thing to say to the largest banks in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70426	Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70427	Thank you. Here's to clarify, this law introduces system-based good solutions for banks and other financial institutions. What is missing is what we see on the example of RBA leasing, that we lack a good system solution and protection for users. You're saying that there was a reaction from the competent institutions here. They reacted too late. So many of the users in the meantime ended up in bankruptcy because the banks left the debt payment. The debtors led to a blockade, bankruptcy, bankruptcy until the company was wiped out. Today, even if there is a possibility of a return of overpaid credit wars, the amount is no longer paid to anyone because these companies have disappeared in the meantime. That is the defeat of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70428	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70429	Thank you. According to my knowledge how the way it works, therefore authorised supervisory authorities carry out independent controls on their own initiative but also on certain applications or instructions on whether users themselves are themselves. So the same person as any body in the country he carries out has certain powers to supervise and manage or not manage but let's say he controls certain.../incomprehensible/... is that, we're talking about some repressive apparatus, most of it goes by application, of course they have the authority to carry out their own.../incomprehensible/... surveillance in the direction where they see it necessary. If anyone has any suspicions, it's either due or not to be in debt, but they can always come to him to check it out. And it's here I think there was just an event that they got a certain application and they responded immediately. Now, if they could and should have done it sooner, I would have agreed that it should have been long before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70430	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Next draft law: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/2402 laying down a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 188 Emergency procedure, therefore, which combines the first and second readings. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Emergency Procedure Act in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second reading, which means that amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Proposer representative State Secretary Mr. Stjepan Curaj will now tell us how secure this securitisation is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70433	Thank you, dear Vice President. Once again, distinguished MPs and MPs would say something first of all about the subject as much as I can bring this somewhat complicated system closer to myself. So, otherwise, here we refer to an existing regulation that is currently monitoring the development of the securitisation market and strengthening the legislative framework of the securitisation itself. In fact, just as I spoke earlier, the European Commission had both the intention and the launch of a re-market of quality securitisations, do we know that the 2008 financial crisis is exactly one of the things that it has triggered because it was these so-called "species". derivatives and trade in derivatives in the United States, which was then poured into the European part. As regards securitisation itself, it constitutes a process of converting non-transportable forms of claim, for example, into transferable instruments or securities. Translated, the most frequently sold is a set of certain placements, a product of credit that someone sells with expected income, and thus in some way cleaned up to date and balance, or made certain contributions and freed some of the funds for further activities on the financial market. Why? The objective of each securitisation is to diversify the sources of funding, to distribute risks across the financial sector and to provide what I have said additional sources of funding that depend to a lesser extent on the banking sector itself. As I said, it can contribute to the release of the balance sheet of the initiator itself if you know about each placement you have to provide a certain amount of funds to cover it, when you sell it yourself and make it a value of the paper then you are freed from some of the funds for further activities and that is exactly why we have it here today and why the European Commission has added to the existing regulation a single amendment which we are now, somewhat small technical or nomotechnically, but I would also say important. Of course, it can be securitisation itself as a process, it can be a link between credit institutions and the capital market then, consequently, has, contributes and benefits to entrepreneurs and citizens. So, as regards the basic objectives of the regulation itself, which we are now here, by emergency procedure, supplementing it or modifying it, and we are thus harmonising and ensuring the implementation of it. So that's where it was aimed at developing a sustainable securitisation market, so re-launching a sustainable market, but what I said at the beginning is parallel, we're ensuring, but we're also ensuring financial stability and protection, so these are two separate processes. Sometimes at the heart of each other, but it is parallelly balanced to get as much activity as possible financially, thus existing economic in maximum protection, or as much security as possible. The regulation defines the general framework for securitisation itself, so to speak. you will see later or see now in STS materials which she would as such represent and so was established and this regulation as... So one standard, secure and transparent securitisation, you'll see later and why, what it means. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to be transparent then the obligation of a deep analysis is prescribed which is necessary when entering and buying these sets of different products of credit placements, especially as it relates to institutional investors when we talk about pension funds here. Also with the aim of monitoring, in order to avoid what happened in 2008, a repository was set up to, say, increase transparency, so the data is sent to the central records of securitisations themselves, which means above all, in possible exposures. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, we have two bodies in force under the law, meaning HANFA and HNB which are supervised and which are responsible for carrying out this part of the operation itself on the financial market. Now, here we are actually supplementing these changes and additions to the European securitisation framework itself to provide an additional tool of economic recovery after the crisis caused by the disease of course Covid-19 and this pandemic that is still present to us and takes a growing wave at least here with us, and I also see in the rest of Europe. Therefore, what was crucial was to remove risks from systemically important parts of the financial system and to strengthen capital positions for lenders. And now one of the ways to get it can be achieved so I'm speaking in parallel again, all the time we're strengthening capital positions, we're enabling bigger, bigger, bigger placements, greater activity, and at the same time we're strengthening ourselves, the protection itself, and the safety itself. And that led to a new product so I can say, that's this synthetic securitisation that's actually here where we introduce and transfer it that the European Commission has already brought. Therefore, this Regulation aims to extend the STS securitisation framework to synthetics and, of course, further remove regulatory recommendations for securitisations without obtaining them in order to further increase the lending capacity without reducing credit standards for bank lending, and to develop a sustainable securitisation framework. Now, what does that synthetic thing involve? It therefore includes the transfer of credit risk to the loan set usually by large enterprises or loans to SMEs through the Credit Protection Treaty when the creditor buys credit protection from investors. This protection is achieved by using financial guarantees or credit derivatives. So, what actually to extend itself the securitisation framework to the very synthetic one has been ensured is that the new provisions have provided specific requirements for so-called so-called. STS balance sheet securitisation. What this difference is is that here protection and risk transfer are achieved by a credit protection agreement instead of the sale of underlying assets. So that's what's been done new to make it faster to get the resources to reduce the risk and to enable, of course, further enhance the safety itself. So, more or less in this sense, the regulation introduces provisions relating to STS balance sheet securitisation requirements that provide for the regime and set of new requirements, for example, this specified simplicity, standardisation, transparency which were specific to the balance sheet only, but among other things, the notion that we can also talk about a credit protection contract structured in a way that protects both the position and the initiator, but also the investor, so that this new set of requirements should address the issue of credit risk itself to the other, the other Contracting Parties, means for, for the practical both parties. This Regulation still requires the appointment of the competent authorities which I have mentioned, which are responsible for monitoring the requirements themselves and which, in fact, this balance sheet synthetic securitisation itself must be fulfilled in order to obtain this STS code. In the Republic of Croatia these are HANFA and HNB as I said according to their areas of jurisdiction. Here I think that this is, in general, something that we are now putting before you, or putting forward, with the aim of transposing certain regulations aimed at strengthening the capacity of the institutions themselves and where it has been recognised that, at the level of the markets, securitisation can be one of the drivers, the key drivers of the economy itself. Of course, what unfortunately follows us in all of my performances here so far, which is that at this point we do not have such operations recorded on the financial market, so, as far as credit institutions are concerned, but we are still transferring the frameworks, we are harmonising, because this is our duty and obligation that we have passed on, but we are certainly allowing this small financial market to have all the solutions. So, that's like this, I hope I've been as plastic in this clarification as possible and I'm staying free of anything here's your replica and your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70434	There's a replica. Mr. Lalovac, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70435	Thank you for your explanation to the Secretary of State. One technical question, referred to article 21 here, speaks of some serious violations. I'll read it now. For the infringement referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, if the perpetrator of the offence is a natural person, the offender of a fine which cannot be less than 50 thousand kuna, but not more than 37.2 million kuna, shall be punished. The penalty range is from 50 thousand kuna to 37.2 million kuna for a natural person. So I just want to know if it's consistent with our law of crime, because I don't know that there's such a wide range of possibilities for saying some punishment. Someone you punish, a natural person, from 50 thousand kuna to 37 million kuna. Well, technically, I'm interested in that part, is that in accordance with the Criminal Code, I know this is about large amounts, and that maybe it's an amount for, maybe legal person, but it specifically says here for a natural person. Well, just please, it may not be a direct answer, but here's what I was curious about was that large amount of $37.2 million for a natural person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70436	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70437	5 million euros, yes, and all of us have passed certain coordinations, the government's narrow cabinet and certain opinions of the ministries, and we have not received any objections to this which you have stated, that something is not in line, which may not mean that it may be so, but I believe that, given that it is a regulation which is generally as well as all other regulations are directly applicable, then we do not have much choice here, because they apply in the whole of the European Union and then it is probably valid at the level of the entire European Union, and not individually that everyone can correct it in accordance with their national legislation, as regards at least these regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70438	Mr. Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70439	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Oh, here, you've already answered my question in the back. The question should have been whether we have such interventions on our market at all, because this is all really one complicated matter, I have to say, and I'm not sure when we're going to start trading these securitisations at all, or I'd say they're already credit derivatives and our market hasn't been developed, so it's a little complicated to get this together and catch up and then transfer it well to the voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70440	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70441	Yes, thank you. So it's generally a concept that is not present on our financial market, so it's also very difficult for the non-financial aspect of people, that is, the sector that is following us to talk about it. What's generally like the concept I see is that you can trade certain credit ratings. Why did that happen? So that they can gather together and someone can sell you some future offerings on certain posters. Of course, this comes most in danger when we talk about securitisation of non-income loans which, of course, reduce the risk and which, in fact, you take into that block system in certain sets that may not be categorized as high-risk, you may find that you have certain, if you have taken over all these events practically, someone has sold you these plasmas and you expect income from regular inflows, that there are certain risks that are then passed on, and so there is the financial crisis itself in the end line. We are at European Union level, it is very good now with this protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70442	Thank you. Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70443	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I found it extremely interesting to listen to this, your exposure, when, in the same context, put sustainable development from sustainable development faster rotation, greater contribution for banks, greater possibility of credit placement to help the economy, which reduces the risk. It kind of doesn't work out for each other, it's shown America, I'm going to tell you that these speeches and America had one 30 years ago, we saw what happened, it doesn't mean that I think it's bad that Europe is going this way, but it's impossible to happen these first two things, and that the risk is less. The risk will be greater, the question of how we will control it and who it will eventually bear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70444	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70445	I couldn't agree with you, because with this, like we said and I keep saying, we're going in parallel in both directions. We provide something already present on the European and world markets, so certain securitisations, and we put them in the frame. How and why and when it can happen and with which mechanisms, so I, the general framework, has been established, the obligation of depth analysis has been established, so to check, of course, and by setting up that repository that I said, it is said, there is no longer any record of who is paying, how who is selling them, how who is forming them, so that when you have banks that have many more plasmas that are trapped, there are certain funds that they have to hold, when you release them, you give them the opportunity to lend an additional economy and you further increase the share. So, you're opening up a part of your assets to reinvest them with maybe reduced income, but in another way you can do more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70446	And Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70447	I thank you, here I am going to rely on what he has put as his replica in the question of Boris Lalovac, do you hear me well? I don't have a question this high in the range of penalties, but I'm asking the question where did the regulation's impact assessment go? In fact, Mr. Kleman was well aware, this is one area that is just developing on our market, but at some point regulatory bodies and misdemeanor courts will need to apply these provisions and in order to have some kind of reference in such a high range of 50,000 to 37 million kuna powers. And I'm curious now, have you ever done any kind of analysis, have there already been grounds for giving such penalties, which the subjects were concerned, how the authorities acted, so somewhere we had to have an initial database, so that these provisions could be implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70448	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70449	Thank you. As regards the assessment of the impact of the rules, it has been done retroactively since the legislation was adopted, it is always the obligation of the legislator, i.e. to carry out the same. We here, as I said, can't do it because with us, our financial market still doesn't recognize this product, so we don't have according to that report that I asked the CNB to prepare for this session, we don't have any of the same product that is currently active in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. What I can say is that in the adoption of this additional regulation, these new sub-classes of securitisations we have actively participated as a member of the European Union and we have also expressed our views, which would mean our part, so that, parallelly when these Regulations come, they have already passed one part of the screening and opinions of all ministries before the Commission itself proposes them to be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70450	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm sorry, don't throw it away, I'm sorry, I didn't give any notice today, and I'm happy about that. Ma'am, I'm opening a debate. The first one is Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac from the House Movement Representatives Club, she's gone, she's losing her right. The second Mr. Zvonimir Troscott, the club representative of the Most, is gone, losing his right. And now there's Mr. Boris Lalovec, who's here. Here you go. In front of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70451	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'll answer your questions immediately, Mr. Vice President. When you said if it was this, you asked a good question. Yes, we are much safer with this law than with so far that has not been regulated at all. [[Intruder Furio Radin: Simply put.]] This is one story that was created in America, and they're always the innovators of everything, especially in financial engineering, and the guys from Wall Street have played out, they're too small, the economy is growing, and they've been looking for even more, and then in the whole story of financial engineering, someone has come up with a thought that someone could still sell assets from the balance sheet and therefore still issue some securities, etc. which will guarantee the return of these loans. And then when a little problem occurs on the financial market, everything collapses and what, and then later these securities and rating agencies mark them as tripple A, means super-quality and then the entire system collapses and the global big financial crisis happens in 2008, because this area wasn't regulated. There was no law, there was nothing. Because in America, everything that's regulated is disturbing your market relations, etc. and should be released from entrepreneurship. In fact, the European Union, or the Commission, to prevent future events as it happened in 2008, introduces a regulation where what the secretary of state actually said is very good, strictly regulated, so that someone no longer plays on the financial market, and now this can no longer happen that someone can sell or form such a financial product without being regulated. And that is why this is a step forward and the European Commission, the European Union, I don't know how it is now in the US, whether they have gone further into this regulation of that area, but Europe is, Croatia is, because it is not a problem that some Croatian citizen will come up with this, but will actually come up with various financial managers who now have money across the European Union and find certain opportunities for profit. And what exactly is this really about? And why he's here talking about income and non-income exposures. So on a very single plastic example, I'm going to try to explain to you what this is about. We have recently heard of overruns, i.e. minuses in citizens' current accounts, and there are about 800,000 Croatian citizens who have too many silent overruns, right. So the banks approved the overruns of 800,000 citizens, about six billion kunas. These 6 billion kunas that the banks actually placed funds to the citizens, and that's what I told the government to control it strictly and regulate that it can't resell them on the market, you can get the following, that the banks, of 6 billion kuna, probably, I don't know, a billion kuna or a billion kunas, for example, can't pay back and it's kind of a bad placement or some kind of non-income loan, or so on. NPL what banks call it. And they're actually, what are they doing? On this basis, they do not want to deal with it, administratively it is very difficult, complicated, very large number of citizens by titles, etc., then simply, what the Secretary of State said can be packed into the financial product and they can say, I don't know, now, 30 or 40 thousand of these credit lines, that is, those scuttled excesses, minus, will sell from their balance sheet, sell on the financial market, they can, sell it, what we said we shouldn't sell them, demand on the financial market. On this basis, they will issue securities guaranteeing the return of that money, because the problem is that these loans are not returning and banks want to get rid of them. They don't want to administer, it's expensive for them to call it citizens, worse posters, etc. But they'll find someone on the market where they'll sell it at 20%. They're going to sell him 20% of some value, and they're going to issue some kind of securities to guarantee some kind of return on this. And then you get it all going while these citizens get it right back. But when they can no longer pay that money back then the entire system as a kind of pyramid begins to collapse. And why this is good for Croatia is precisely that if it does not want to prevent the possibility of someone having these minuses with the banks of these 800 thousand Croatian citizens, so as not to resell their minuses on the financial market so-called. By securitizing through this particular process and clearing out its balance sheet because it's not really, it's property, they're in the assets of banks. So she's claims, these are claims that banks have on citizens based on these loans. And that's how banks get rid of these bad bills, get a certain part of the money, but they all pack it up in a financial product that nobody controls. There's no regulation at all for anyone to control it. And that's why this is good, that this can't happen on the financial market right now, and that there's no control over the whole process of control that this can happen. Because this isn't just about claims on the bank balance. That's what banks do most of the time, because they have a large number of customers, it's expensive administration. It's about large amounts, billions of kunas, etc. and financial institutions usually do so. But it says here that companies and other companies can do it. And just to get that securitisation in order to bring order, as the secretary of state said, to be strictly regulated, to be controlled, to be supervised, to get approval, to do a deep analysis of it, to be seen because it's about loans that are bad. The very explanation states this, only the explanation says the crisis caused by Covid 19 could cause an increase in the number of non-income exposures. What's this about? The COvid crisis itself could cause a greater number of bad loans and thus intensify the activities of the institutions, means to intensify banks to sell it, to manage their non-income exposures, because they no longer receive revenues. And one way they start trading, and they start trading, and then you actually get rid of exactly these risks, as they are called here, systemically important parts of the financial sector. What's very important systemically important is that you don't get what happened in America in 2008. And how much did she spill? Norway, the funds, came to Croatia and we had nothing to do with this, nor did half of Europe participate in the securitisation process at all. However, they still issued securities, sold to Norwegian funds, sold to pension funds, so those who manage pensions. So someone doesn't have to sell it to some Croatian pension funds tomorrow. And then we're talking about the threat of our second pension stake. So those who work on the financial market, financial engineering, they're always unfortunately a few steps ahead of them because it's not regulated. Now it's regulated. Europe went far more cautiously than other countries, such as the United States or others. And now she's jumping in and you can't play on the financial market anymore and now you'll be both regulated and controlled and depth analysis etc. etc. That's what I actually said and when I asked Minister Maric and Prime Minister Plenkovic that simply the whole system because of what's going to come up with bad loans we still don't know how many bad loans we have in our bank balance sheets. We don't know. We don't know how citizens repay loans. Whether or not you see it happening every day, we don't even know how many of those loans are. And just so it doesn't miss the CNB because that's what banks sell, and that's their regular job where they sell those claims, so it's controlled and controlled. One is introduced completely and this is controlled by the European Banking Supervisory Authorities together with the CNB, etc. Something is being introduced that at least those who imagine such a form of securitisation will try to work on the Croatian market. I say you won't probably work an average Croatian citizen who doesn't understand this... However, when various financial speculators come to you on the market where you see that there are bad ones they take advantage of their opportunity and we hope that these legal solutions will prevent them and therefore the SDP club will support them like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70452	The Norwegian fund got away, but it's too strong. Mr. Anton Kleman will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70453	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues here are after a truly comprehensive explanation of the Secretary of State, and especially after the addition and continuation of the explanation of former Minister of Finance, Lalovac is now much clearer to everyone who is not in this business. So in that whole story here, so when you look at that law in the front row it's pretty vague, there's a lot of gaps. It really has to be in that matter. Pretty much the one that isn't, so inside, it's hard for him to catch all this together. That's why it was very important to hear from both the secretary of state and the colleague of Lalovec that the whole story is so that we all, but also to the citizens, are much clearer how important this law really is. At first, when we look at MPs who are not in this financial sector by the end of the house, there are many questions, but through this debate, here is the real purpose of what we are going to vote on next Friday. And indeed this law is very important to protect absolutely us in our little financial system. And all of Europe, of these, I would say, is that there are grammatical managers from Wall Street and some markets that are not regulated as regulated, as are regulated by this law by European markets. That's why it's very important that we accept this law. The HDZ Club will support this law in any case and prepare practically both our financial institutions and our regulators as mentioned in this law, so that both the HANF and the CNB are closely monitoring what is going on in the financial markets so that they can intervene in case some anomalies occur and apply this law at the right time, and also punish some with 37 million kuna if they play with savings in pension funds and I don't know what you said earlier and those minuses famous ones, etc. Here's another very important law. When it is well explained, when it is well understood about the future of the Croatian financial market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70454	Thank you very much, Mr. Kleman. It is now up to the Social Democrats' Club and Mr. Named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70455	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll after this exposure in fact there's not much to add. I don't think the law is complicated. It's not even complicated to understand, the only question is how much will be spent with us in the first place. But we are part of the European Union. In fact, we are the European Union. I've said it a few times. I'm glad for that. We practically as a small country have an opportunity or we simply have to follow the rules and paths that draw others according to what we heard from the secretary, let's say this time we took part in something. He says we've made our remarks, our thoughts on it, and I'm happy about it. It is clear that Europe, as well as the rest of the world, needs liquidity in order to develop the economy in some way. To get liquidity like the definition itself says securitization is to try to make that non-equity property liquid. That's where it all started in America back in '38. where it was partly regulated. It was practically the state agency that was the Fenimey, and then it was '68. It was born and Freddy, it wasn't that Kruger, but it ended up as Kruger. So I'd like history to be our life teacher, and that when you go some way, you don't end up in the same place, but in some ways we go another way like Europe. Because when you give finance, or financial mags, as they say freedom, then eventually someone has to pay for it. Apparently, throughout history, it is always paid by the weakest, or by the citizens. So I welcome the fact that Europe, in fact Europe has always been more conservative than America, I will not say slower, but more thoughtful when it comes to investment. So what was actually the EU goal when it started in this process of regulating securitisation within the EU to create a simple, transparent and standardised product. That's what you always say. The question is, how does it end? He says there'll be a depth analysis. If we had done a depth analysis of Agrocora 10 years ago, he had... And they would accept it in any game like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, it ended the way he ended up. In America there were real estates, mortgage loans. When a real man sees that real estate can't go down, and it's been showing up every year until one moment when it's starting to fall. So here we as a small country actually don't have a lot. The credit potential for banks will contribute to the development of the economy. What we should be careful about in some ways is how we allow on our market, or how much we get to know those who might be able to work on the risks that arise. I would really like to, and we have the right to reduce the risk to those institutions operating in the Republic of Croatia in some way. There's been talk here about pension funds, that I can't really work too much inside this space. Because I honestly don't want the pension fund that I've invested money in to finally buy untold claims from banks, citizens who have fallen into trouble. I don't think that should be the goal or the moral interest of those who manage our pensions. I say there is no logic not to support what Europe is trying to do, what is the question of whether this attempt can end in a similar way as it ended in America I hope not. The more this area is regulated, the less likely it is to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70456	You, too. And now Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70457	Thank you, Chairman, for saying hello to two fellow MPs. The Republic of Croatia is a part of the EU, so I am glad that when a case comes, that our legal system is ready for it. Well, I'm glad we're introducing this supposedly useful law into our legal order in time. However, I was rightly taught that the legal norm must be reasonable to the addresses to which the legal norm applies, so it is actually a bad practice that we are more about the reasons why this law was good learned from the presentation of Boris Lalovec than the reasonable reasoning was in the presentation of the motion. And this should be taken into account because one day when this law is in force, this will be an official document that our regulatory authorities and cash finers will be able to read, and the exposure of Boris Lalovac is unlikely to be possible. So that's my first little grudge that the proposing should take account of in the future. Secondly, if we were saying that during the debate on the content of this law we were discussing with other bodies at EU level, so we were making some of our own proposals, so at least the promoter said we obviously had some initial data analysis of who they were at the moment of this new provision, the new rules could apply. And I believe that these data and those numbers should have been included in the proposal for reasons of passing this law. At one point I think I heard the word, we don't know how many bad loans we have right now. I'm surprised by all that data on the blockades of our citizens and all the analytical capacities that I should be able to manage with FINA. So, some initial data on how much these bad placements could currently be in circulation, I think the Republic of Croatia has a question whether you've given yourself enough effort to study and analyze them well. And if we haven't already had our own figures, then we should have compared the situation on the market with other EU Member States, and taken into account their life practice and the practice of regulatory bodies. And ultimately, the provisions of this law may not be understood by an average citizen, however, he understands something else. So, first of all, I would like Croatia to become a state that recognises the needs of its citizens, which means that we should have a power that recognises and is able to draw up a list of priorities. Now, if during the period when the numbers infected by the covid virus are growing, if we have a situation that from all levels and on all sides I hear about the collapse of the health system, the need for structural reforms that are not being implemented anywhere is really in some way offensive to the citizens and leads to further collapse of trust with the institutions, that the provisions of this bill that you agree with me at this point are really not a priority we discuss in the afternoons in the middle of the week, and issues such as voting the trust of the Minister of Finance are being discussed by the small hours of the night. It may not be your business, but it concerns the government and the parliamentary majority whose part you are also part of. And if we keep acting like this, I'm afraid the citizens' rebellion will get bigger and bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70458	Thank you very much. Here's final Mr. Stjepan Curaj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70459	Thank you, Chairman. It's short for something not only to be left in the air, but also to always give answers to what he has instigated in the debate itself. We can go back and forth while the distinguished representative is here. So, every time we have the same observation, obviously, of my exposure, even though it is more commendable to me than the esteemed representative of Lalovec. Certainly I, as a proposer, must not allow myself that breadth and plasticity to be explained, especially in the introductory way that I used to sit here as a representative and could have a much greater width given the matter I present here and the interested public who follows it. So I'm not talking about an average citizen here, I'm talking about those who are taking part in the financial market, and I can't afford one dose of non-sanitary and insecure or oversimplification of certain things. As far as the point of view is concerned, so I will literally read to you our point of view is that we do not support the introduction of preferential capital treatment for STS-balance sheet synthetic securitisations, because it is the same as the basil framework, and also, because they are currently available, be careful now because data on such securitisations are currently available insufficient to conclude the eligibility of the introduction of preferential capital treatment. This is something that we participated in and gave our opinions to the European Commission. So the data was insufficient that we disagreed with certain introductions that ultimately did not. So you said we obviously have some data. No, we didn't have any data, and that's why we didn't want to back things up. As for the NPLs, so Non-Performing Loans, of course we have the data. I didn't mention them here, but I'll be happy to tell you. So at the end of the first half, there were 5.1 percent in total placements. At the end of the year and at 31.12.2002, there were 5.4%. As far as after the afternoon debate is concerned, this is already a late term, so there are always different possibilities for interpretation. As for the esteemed representative Brumnić, therefore the risk of compulsory pension funds is already possible in this respect, given that they have A, B, C through government bonds. B and that A are mostly stock and securities. So they can already go into their settings hard to invest in certain sets of securities based on credit ratings. As far as depth analysis is concerned, it refers specifically to, not the entire company, not the entire credit institution, but to a particular set of products exactly which they would like to convert into securities. What's this about? Let me try to be a little plastic now that it's over, so I can afford it 'cause I made this part. We're talking about trade in future contributions, that's securitisation. So, you have a loan that guarantees you by a certain interest certain profit on your capital, on your money. You say I give it up, it's an x number for me. I sell it with an x minus 50% to free myself of the means to place it in something that I find more interesting. What it allows is access to credit investments is someone who can't have it. What does that mean? Some investment houses, here today you have a situation where government bonds don't bring in, it's a negative interest. You look at a number of those who have funds and don't know how, where investment is and investment funds, and they're not credit institutions, they can't give credit. But they can buy such valuable securities with this securitisation and thus invest their resources for one already the same thing that has been placed on the other hand free the bank of the funds they hold as a reserve for the placements they have, and the bank here may be in one part when we talk about those income loans on healthy plasmas also reduces one part of the income, and what we are proposing today is what the European Commission has designed to keep that risk, that the bank does not get rid of that risk when we talk about the NPLs. If you were to sell them what the esteemed representative Lalovec explained, he can't now. You can sell them, but they stay at your property. You can't get rid of property. So the balance sheet stays. You can get rid of it and get space to get the funds back, but then as soon as you're left with the property, you'll take care of what way and what you'll actually sell and convert into some securities about the group itself. So that is why securitisations are released by the initiator part of the capital that can then, which has been allocated to cover that risk and that the contract clears that risk and you can continue to invest. On the other hand, some investment fund that doesn't know what to invest or estimate that it's a good contribution, a good enough contribution to be invested in these payments, and you as a bank, as an initiator, are freed of that asset so that you can continue to operate on the market. Now that's what this is about, in fact, that mandatory detention introduces mandatory risk retention like that model, an additional securitisation instrument, that there is no transfer of assets, as the esteemed representative Lalovac said. So, you sold all the plasmas, you had nothing to do with it anymore. You gave yourself some sense, and you freed yourself your own camera to administer other loans. Because what you need to know in the system is that it costs everything. It costs a software that monitors interest, bills, calculates the monthly commitment of the principal, monthly liabilities and interest, costs people who administer it. It's all included in that amount of interest some bank gives. And now that you have these lows on interest, then these banks are calculating, and that's why these good instruments are that maybe someone who can administer it differently, in a different way, release those funds. Here's hoping that in some way I managed to tell that financial system myself. In conclusion, as in the current changes in the financial sector that I am proposing here on behalf of the Government, we are not far away, we are not in the sense of some great activity. It should and could be bigger because it improves overall economic activities. But we follow all the provisions that come down to us at European Commission level in the hope that when they come, we will have something that they didn't have when we were developing. They entered far greater risks, traded something new instruments, new derivatives, new products, and did not have this coverage. And so much sooner we can get to where they are now than they should have come all this time. But we need to be aware of our market and points, and when you look at the points on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, how much total capitalisation is listed. So we see that far away we're from some big capital market. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70460	Thank you very much, Mr. Curai. All MPs and MPs were looking for a replica. Here's Mrs. Oreshkovic's first replica. And Brumnic, the first is Brumnic. [[The ladies have the advantage.]] You're right. Mr. Brumnic first yes, you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70461	Dear Secretary of State, let's make this simple. When I was talking about Agrokor, it would mean that some bank that owns it, i.e. loaned Agrokor that loan offered de facto securitized, offered on the market, someone bought and gave the bank money for it. What happens if I get you right except for the fact that the bank guarantees the investor who invested that bank's contribution to it retains the risk. I'm not sure that works exactly like you said, because then the bank gambles twice because it's not in the spirit of banks, or the idea of banks, or the owner of banks. So, but the idea of a job like this is actually that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70462	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70463	So here's the thing. This securitisation is also defined in fact by establishing criteria for this STS securitisation and is prescribed for mandatory risk retention. So, just as it prevents loans and loans that cannot be returned from the balance sheet from being removed through securitisation. In other words, what's wrong with getting rid of it. You have to have one responsibility and it's a contractual relationship. A resection ban has also been introduced which could actually introduce a level of transparency that the one who bought it again to someone other than in some other cases as indicated. So here, first of all, concerns the relationship that the contractual guarantee is, in fact, a bank there provides a guarantee for what sells which is nothing strange. In a normal world, it is perfectly normal that when someone sells something to you, they give certain guarantees to what you bought unless it's the kind of sale we have in the law on mandatory relationships in the way the equipment is said - bought.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70464	Now really Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70465	Thank you, President. So there's a reason why I stayed until the end to listen to this final exposure of yours in good faith. In fact, as new products are created on the financial market, new branches are created in the area of law, for which someone who interprets and implements these legal branches, and in particular the sanctions must exist and that part of the system's preparedness. So, preparedness at the end of justice. Because regardless of what HANFA will do, the CNB as regulatory bodies at some point issues from this domain can become the subject of various administrative or constitutional disputes. It is therefore important in the very beginning especially on the market that not developed to know exactly what it is and not only for large financial speculators, but also for ordinary citizens to convince some understandable dictionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70466	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70467	Well, as far as a reasonable dictionary is concerned, those who do these things are understandable what they say. So this is not what the people who came from the street wrote, but this is what people who do this are proposing and participating in creation. As a ministry, we always consult, although with HANFA as a competent body, the CNB di there is much, much more complicated in some moments. As for the fear of understanding the courts. So, here when we talk about supervisory and large-scale supervisory supervision, but so far at least or in our case, but there is not much of a trial at EU level either. So, you have a regulator who has the possibility of a supervision that can cut off your criminal sentence, can direct you, ban you, and actually ban your actions. And these are the rules of the game that work on the financial market and they know it very well, and they're all very afraid of that same regulator and they're watching what they're going to tell you and do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70468	And in the end, Mr. Pavić as the third representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70469	My dear secretary, I would only ask for an explanation. You said actually the bank can't sell its claim in a way that separates it from its balance sheet. Right? That's how I figured it out. Okay. What bothers me is that the claim that's being sold is actually a risky claim and the bank has some data on this claim in its balance sheet. Does the fund that buys that claim buy it based on information that is on the balance sheet or on an assessment on the stock market that is currently up to date?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70470	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70471	Thank you. This could not be about selling risky claims, i.e. non-income ones, but about selling income. That's two basic differences. What this brings is this new model, that you can sell the future yield, means that this credit rating itself in a way that shares the risk with those who are willing to invest in this future contribution, but that again retains it and that a certain bank provides a certain guarantee. She can choose that model to free herself from a certain portion, so it stays with them in the balance sheet, but they get rid of that part of the property because you have to ensure for each kuna that you can if it fails to bring it back. So that's the deposit you have to deposit. Then they are freed from part of the funds to re-place, so that this is how risk is shared and enables banks not to go to the sale of claims agencies whose only purpose is simply to collect the principal and interrupt the product. Those who buy they continue to administer, people still have their product.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-04-0.u70472	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. You can continue in the hallway. Let me tell you, I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when they get their hands on it, get the conditions. Tomorrow at 9.30 we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the right to access information. So it's important, so you're spreading it to other MPs who aren't presently presently presently. Thank you very much, and when you go outside, you can turn off the light! SUNCH Interrupted at 18:19 p.m.
