ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u27280	The Honorable Chairman, MPs and MPs. It is my great pleasure to draw your attention that yesterday at the cabinet session, an information system was presented for the submission of requests for renewal after the earthquake. Why am I bringing this up? If we go back to the discussions we had here on January 20th, you'll probably all remember that here in the assembly, I've polluted with the Minister of Construction and I've claimed that the procedure is too complex, too demanding, I've also criticised the fact that no data with existing databases owned by the state has been used, and I've drawn attention that all this can be done and that it should have been done much earlier. Two weeks ago, we witnessed a delay in the start date of submission of requests due to complexity and yesterday they presented a system that should be facilitated and automated in one part. If we've at least contributed a little bit to this, I think we should be proud of it. And today I will take the opportunity to warn of another major problem that could make it difficult and delay the restoration, which is certainly more difficult to deal with craftsmen and small entrepreneurs in construction. In fact, they lose step and the possibility of development, among other things, because the government imposes laws that make it impossible for them to work or make business more difficult for them and raise the price of work for no real reason. In particular, it is authorized persons for the management of works during construction. What exactly happened? By 2019, please, by 2019, the heads of certain construction works could have been technicians with 10 years of training and professional examination and qualified masters with master exams, builders, engineers, electricians. Since 2019 new laws relating to construction have been disabled, and technicians and KV masters can only run works that are categorized under less complex works. The process of training and the exercise of authority for technicians and KV masters is not uniform because the head of the KV master's work can only become after a master's examination, so after 2 to 3 years after three years of school and without a state expert examination for construction, while a technician of the same profession after a 4-year high school professional exam can be passed after 3 years, and the head of the work can become after 5 years of practice. So in the same profession we have discrimination established through several laws and regulations. After education, the levels include passing professional exams that can be recognised in practice as auxiliary workers, installers, managers, of course and managers of works-masters, construction heads, these are already engineers, designers and supervisory engineers. Therefore, the question is raised, how is it that, without changing the education system in 2019, the progress of technicians after a number of years of practice and professional examinations and no longer being able to run works on construction sites? What happens after that? In fact, the epilogue is to lose the possibility of progress in the profession, as well as the notion of lifelong learning with the goal of progressing in the profession, and what is even greater the problem is that many small craftsmen, meaning small crafts that are related to construction, small entrepreneurs have lost the possibility of an independent appearance on the market and because of this today I am saying this here because it will happen to us that only large businesses will be able to report to us at the restoration, and small craftsmen will be their subcontractors, perhaps third, fourth, fifth, and I don't know which hand, and the prices will be such that it will actually make them all expensive to go bankrupt, i.e. In many construction sites, workers will be engineers who will not actually be present, who will not control the work itself, and the question of the quality of the work done immediately arises. So I would ask that something be done to correct this irregularity because, among other things, young people who see what the situation is, are going to work outside of Croatia because they do not see here the possibility of self-restraint in their trade, or the possibility of progress, and unfortunately it is about deficiting professions. This can be corrected in a way to correct the law, to allow technicians as well as masters to be heads of works on construction sites, to level the criteria for authorising workers and to enroll in the Register of authorised managers of individual works in the competent chamber, authorised engineers in construction, so that they can all and works to lead to all construction sites without the presence of engineers [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And in the end [[Thank you. Next...]] To take the opportunity and all of ours [[Intruder: Thank you very much, you've missed your time.]] I wish my fellow citizens happy March 8th, or Women's Day. [[Intruder: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u27390	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 13:03 AM]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u27391	The Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. On Monday, March 8th will be marked. More than a century and a half have passed since the strike of Chicago factory workers that can no longer be read about in our textbooks. More than a century has also passed to mark International Women's Day on March 8th or March 8th. In order to persistently repeat that inequality is not a thing of the past, inequality has not disappeared, inequality is resilient and successfully survives in society thanks to rooted attitudes about the nature of women and men, and hence their well-deserved position in society. The inequality is systematic, registered in laws, supported in society, supported in the media. She is also visible in the Parliament, enough to look at the panels in front of the halls with large husbands whose names are wearing our halls only one woman's name received her room Marija Jurić Zagorka, the first rapporteur from HS. The inequality is visible both by the number of women in the assembly and by the way they are treated by a part of the men in this assembly, despite statistics that speak of a number of women enrolled in colleges or those who are the same. What is today supposed to mean to us on March 8th? It's not easy to tell what it would mean to us on March 8, it's also changed understanding of what it is to us as an advocacy or possible female collectiveity that requires equality, equal terms and rights, work equal fees, availability of education, health or pensions. But on March 8th in Croatia, layers of political marginalisation of International Women's Day, which partially covered the importance and practice of its marking. But on March 8, for many of us, this time I think of us as civil-scene activists and part of a unionist member of women's unions who couldn't be fooled by their own, as another famous woman said. It also meant preserving the continuity of the March 8th marking and the kind of resistance against the policy that gave up on March 8th as the features of the past system, not understanding that it was an international day, rather than the day of the previous system. Not knowing the history, not knowing the role, nor why it is important to record March 8, for which many women have given their lives. And most importantly, why it's important on March 8th, it's that women fight for the autonomous right to decide on their lives and on life without violence. We have seen today that the desire of women regardless of party membership except for one ruling party, that it was important to make a decision here that the victims would not wait for, to whom what was on this wave of reporting was encouraged to talk about violence, sexual harassment, sexual violence, rape, were encouraged to speak, and now it will fall into old age. Will they be encouraged on February 1st when we will eventually get a new law? The marking of March 8th, today is a reminder of many women who have often been paid and their lives, alerted precisely to the unequal position of women and men, but also women of different classes and status, today also women from minority communities, ethnic and sexual. And thanks to our predecessors, we know why it's important to record today on March 8th. And with the overwork of women, the underpaid work of women, the unpaid work of women. Look around you, in times of crisis and pandemics, the growing poverty women share, women are who will reconcile private and public, watch hospitals and children help online continue, take care of old parents and write projects. This year's March 8th will not be marked by a traditional women's march, nor a protest by women against poverty, because we live on March 8th, but will be marked.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u27530	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u27531	I thank the president. I have already pointed out several times that HS does its work under the conditions of the mutilated Rules of Procedure which, through a whole series of different changes, have prevented and mutilated the rights of parliamentary deputies, especially the opposition to the use of what each representative should have and should be able to use. But I think the bigger problem is that HS functions in a state of mutilated consciousness about its role and purpose. HS, as a legislative body, should be one of the pillars of society and state, one of the tripods of division and division of power, to legislative, executive and judicial. But such a core, such a purpose HS has long not served and existed in practice. The Parliament is not the body in which the debate is being debated, the Parliament is not the body in which the debate is being debated. Decisions on which the law will be passed and what it will look like are made somewhere. Here is only a machine that wants and needs the ruling votes or does not vote without even thinking about what it really means for our citizens and for the state. We've witnessed it today. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Free speeches are one of the few remaining forms through which parliamentary representatives can convey the political and programming messages that are important to them. And I ask the question does it make sense to send any, let alone important political and programming messages when the assembly is actually as empty as it is right now? Who are we actually talking to if we don't talk to each other as Parliamentarians? Why is this pay phone if the only reaction to the ideas that a single parliamentary representative is fighting for is actually tormented or possibly echoing as it is now? The submission of various proposals on the Rules of Procedure's Change Initiatives is under way, and this time I ask one obviously rhetorical question to parliamentary deputies who are not presently present in the Croatian Parliament, are we going to look through the amendments to the Rules of Procedure to return to HS the role and purpose that HS should have or will be satisfied with only some cosmetic changes to leave these rhetorical possibilities to maintain meaningless monologues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u27628	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Dodig will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u27629	... Croatian spring, a movement that indicated a free Croatia. [[Specially enabled.]] As one of the participants of this famous 1971 event, I had a need to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament. I decided to read a speech that I gave on March 27, 1971 in the Grand Hall of SC at the Assembly of several students of Zagreb's universities, dorms, and traditional societies. There's a lot going on today. Here's the speech. "We are a generation that is not burdened with history, nor will it allow anyone to attribute the sins of the past to it. We will not allow anyone to label us, nor to be turned off by skillful insinuations. We have the right to a political act regardless of what a large number of us are outside the Union of Communists. Not only do we have the right to a political act but we owe it to the nation and the people to do everything in our power. We must not remain passive observers of social turmoil at the moment when most of our biological and intellectual potential lies in the countries of Western Europe and Australia, when our blood-earned money floats along the river without returning. Can we be silent when we are in a situation where our entire areas remain empty, for example, islands, when we know that much of our beautiful Adriatic is in subjugated relations with powerful and privileged reactors. Aren't we the investment of our working man, isn't he tired of training staff for Western Europe, isn't it our duty to start paying that debt back to our employee? Our obligation is to provide our man better tomorrow. We are bound by history and the future to ring the alarm when we know that we are more dead than born. Can we remain silent and when our man begins to lose the most elemental features, such as language and national culture? Are we going to let our fate continue to be designed by the terrible remnants of the past that there is still enough?"My dear comrades, it was the year of the 50th year, Croatia is a free and independent state. What were we university students able to dream of then, and because of these dreams, we had to do time? I'm proud of that time, I just have to get the right place in Croatian history, I want to mention some people, participants of Croatian Spring and there were many more. Ivan Šibl, Nikica Valentić, Veljko Bozikov, Branko Jaja, Mladen Vedriš, Muje Krasniqi, Ivan Marhonić, Stjepan Sučić, Ferdo Bušić, Krunoslav Šuto, Jure Burić, Jakov Šupe, Jerko Djerek, Ante Žužul, Krešo Martinac, Nedljko Djerek, Sreko Mandić, Vjekoslav Čula, Filip Vukak, Davorin Pamić. It is our legacy that today, because of politics, not prison. And that is why it is our duty for all of us to build better, more orderly, more prosperous and happier Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u27697	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u27698	Thank you. So, I think that on this speaker I don't tell the MPs, I tell the Croatian people they chose me here to talk about their problems, to offer some sort of solution, and it's clear that this ruling constitution that exists has no purpose for me to say anything to her because as much as I'm saying, they won't listen. I would like here from this pay phone today to point out the situation in Banovina in Petrinja where it is obvious that there have been major problems and chaos because today, two and a half months since the earthquake, there is no system or criterion for the distribution of donations. It is obvious that the system does not work for donations, nor for reconstruction, and Mayor Dumbovic, whose ladder is held by HDZ and this one at the state level, because we know that Reformists are in coalition with HDZ, Cacic's Reformists, but that petrinian HDZ is also with him. The citizens are seriously accusing him and they don't believe that everything is going well. He calls his citizens "a angry crowd, liars and these same citizens are on edge in every way. Last night, the co-ordinator of Mosta, Sisak-Moslavina County, Luca Gaspar Šako reported to the police the mayor of Petrinja Darinko Dumbovic because he threatened her for her engagement in Petrinja, where she has been persistently and consistently pointing to the illogicality, irresponsibility and potential malversion. She gave a statement to the police about the crime of threats under the article. 139. The KZ and the police were on her quest, unable to secure her protection, so they offered her a safe house, which she refused because her child would suffer another trauma. What does Luca say? I'll quote. He says, "It all started because we discovered that there was profit after the earthquake, with a group of people I discovered crime in Petrinja, and since then the city eyes have been on me. The public mayor calls me a witch, I don't expect anything good from him and his followers. The mayor, the Technical Director of the Communal and Managers yesterday told everyone that the donations of 20 construction material were shared by Luca Gaspar Šako and that everyone had to call me, and I was told that the mayor was mobilizing me without anyone informing my employer and me, and I came from work to deny it, and first I went to the police to ask them to come out with me on the ground but they said they were not competent, I asked the mayor who was giving statements to the media, and then he threatened me by saying, "Keep an eye on me, you'll see," and that's what Luca reported to the police. We're getting reports from the field that there's still no system and criteria for the distribution of donations, so nothing's working, citizens are out of place. Donations are shared without criteria and against the law, I call on the DORH from this place, BUSKOP to finally act so that they don't come, so there won't be illegal actions. From Petrinja, people claim they have all the evidence, that the actual state can be easily determined. We see reports now here, we read on portals, in Sisak a man is threatening a bomb, so the situation is getting out of hand, it's something we don't want, we want the system to work, that people, citizens, don't take justice into their own hands, but obviously it doesn't work there either. We've been on the ground since the start of this crisis, helped and also warned about irregularities, saying that this law that's been passed here in the Parliament isn't good enough. We have offered solutions, we have offered a strategy or guidance for the Banovina recovery strategy but the ruling does not want to listen to it. People of Banovina, the Bridge will be with you and support our Lucy Gaspar Shako, we will not let people who fight for their end, local sheriffs terrorize. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u27785	The next club of representatives is that of HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u27786	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of 220 thousand largely family pensioners, I express my bitterness with the decision of yesterday's ruling by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reject 2 opposition, 2 my laws that are regulated in the European way of family pensions. So a widow after her husband's death can inherit 50% of his pension and not sink into the poverty zone. So someone should have a great talent to do this 4 days before International Women's Day, before 8 March, and not to look back on the role of women in Croatian society who holds 3 cantunes of the house, who cares about raising children, about all family needs and is very, very valuable and always less paid, always works more hours than they are paid, than the hours paid, therefore, not a single word of the government's reference to the role and the victim of women in Croatian society. It is therefore inadmissible to reject such a bill without entering into the essence of the problem with the argument that the long-term sustainability of the pension system is questionable. These are the floscules I've been listening to here for 10 years. Therefore, the insurance rate, the total contribution payments of 60, 70, 80 and more years of mates have their own weight and the fact is that in the pension system, that money and that pension are the most valuable type of pension, and after 10 years of all attempts, it is necessary to resolve it. The government's word that they'll question family pensions is, like, carrots on a long stick. Who believes that? For 10 years, some new models have been developed, so I guess one government inherits another, so not everything is thrown into the basket of what professional services do in the previous government. They say they will form a working group that should produce some variants of family pension resolution by the end of the year. So my people at HZMO have 2,700 employees, among them there are experts who can handle it in two weeks can make a model, three models and give them a public debate on what is tolerable and what is just. I'm asking you here what's fair, not sustainability of the pension system. Someone paid the contributions, someone then paid the contributions because someone else was receiving a pension instead of the ones who were paying. Yes, there should be talent in the same session of the government in the parliamentary procedure to be referred to the Law on the Defense of the Homeland War where the criteria for the exercise of the rights of defenders, including retirement, are threatened. Where are the contributions? Where's the money in the budget? No one asks, so for one he can't do for another. One mother, the other stepmother. Stepmom to those who worked, who were paying, and mother to those who without work are paralysing on the pension system. Gentlemen, despite my indignation with these government decisions, I will be gentle and constructive for the end, gentlemen after 18 years in politics I have a dream, this dream is that the day will come when opposition and ruling, ruling and opposition in a culture of dissension, will bring out a good law in a reasoned dialogue for our citizens. I know it's utopia, but you have to admit that this dream is very beautiful, for that dream and for that day it's worth living for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u35398	We're going to vote now. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Islands, first reading, P.Z. No. 87, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: That draft law is adopted and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 119 MPs and MPs, 111 for and 8 abstentions voted, so that the conclusion was reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and Proposal for a Report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2019. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the home working body, I am voting on the proposal of the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 125 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 49 against and thus the Annual Report on the implementation of the 2019 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted. In accordance with the provisions of Article 111 of the Treaty, The Budget Law of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposes to the Croatian Assembly to make, we now have 6 decisions, whether you agree that all of a sudden, well, you can. It is therefore the first decision to agree on the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters financial plan for 2019, the second decision on granting the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2019, the third decision on granting the annual report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for saving roles and the resolution of banks for 2019, the fourth Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2019, the fifth Decision on the implementation of the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Centre for Reconstruction and Sales for 2019 and the sixth Decision on the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute's financial plan for 2019. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 51 against and thus the decisions I have announced have been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36279	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club in order to point out once again the importance of amending the Penal Code. The SDP advocates' club proposed that sexual harassment be prosecuted according to official duty. Why? Because in the current law, victims of sexual harassment can report the same thing within 3 months. If she hasn't done it in three months, she can just sit there and cry. Many women are in a situation where they are not ready to report this violence, students are in colleges, employees are in companies and may be involved in reporting violence and fear of existence, fear of ending college, fear of losing their jobs. It has been shown that this standard of law does not benefit victims of violence and that is why we need to change it now and immediately, as much as there has been a strong movement in Croatia and in the region where women are encouraged to report violence. And what happens if we don't pass a law like this today? It will happen that all those students, all those workers, all those housewives, all those women who suffer sexual violence if they don't do that application within three months it will go out of date, for them chances, the dignity of pursuing abusers simply doesn't exist. So I once again appeal to you, this is no longer the time for declarative support for the victims, we heard you report in the past months, we will help you, today is the day when we decide on the fate of those persons. We want to show and send a very clear message that we are with these women, that we understand their suffering, that we want to help them not only with words but also with deeds. This is not a question of left, right or center, this is a question of society's message to victims of violence and violence in general. Don't turn your back on the victims, please vote for this bill and don't turn your back on the victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36280	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Comrade Puljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36281	Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS club to also point out once again the importance of amending the Penal Code. Through the debate, we have seen that 151 MPs agree with the need to make these amendments, agree with the need to help victims of sexual violence, to have no objection to the amendment of this part of the Penal Code, and therefore we appeal, so we are not responsible for the question that this law, the amendment, is now passed, and then, in the second step, we bring all other necessary amendments to this law to further help and strengthen the protection of victims of sexual violence. Don't turn your back on the victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36282	The apartment is approved. Now it's my friend Bencic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36283	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues. I'm looking for this break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club so that we can actually think again about what we're going to or won't raise our hands for when we vote on this amendment to the Penal Code and whether or not we're going to turn our backs on the victims. The arguments we heard from HDZ that as one of the reasons why they would not accept this bill is that the working group is already working and that the working group will adopt all necessary amendments to the criminal law. However, this argument does not stand for the simple reason why we know that this procedure will take a very long time for most of this year, that it is possible that all these cases of sexual harassment that we have heard about in recent weeks and months will become obsolete. And what is also quite clear is that nothing prevents you from adopting this amendment now and then adopting other upcoming changes on which the working group is working. So, we appeal to you, don't turn your back on the victims, especially those who are victims now and who will run out of deadlines and who, because of you and your vote today, will be unable to process sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36284	The apartment is approved. 4th row, dear colleague Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36285	My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. I'm not going to lie and I'm not going to moralize, this is a political race, this is primarily a political battle, and all those who are here are trying to score political points, especially now in the wake of an election campaign ahead of the local elections. And yes, the SDP wants political points for itself, I probably as chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality want political points for myself, and you want to make a political profit on this as bearers of wider amendments to the Penal Code that will lead to a better position of the victims. But even though this is all a political race, it does not mean that there is no truth and a lie, that there is no right and wrong, and you are well aware of that too. And the truth is simple, it's better before later, for the victims, it's better to bring this in sooner than later, for society, it's a better message and a stronger message now in the midst of all these sexual harassment affairs to bring it in before we do, and we know it, and you know it. Yeah, maybe the SDP will make a political profit, never mind, they remembered first. For the victims, it's better than later. My colleagues and colleagues in the HDZ order, I know you're uncomfortable, you're uncomfortable because you agree with this proposal, Hannah Arendt has long forged a term of banality of evil by speaking of crimes during II. World War I, the term described the modern-day criminals not as a corrupt, twisted person, but as one who blindly exercises orders by refusing to meet with himself in an internal dialogue. Do not participate in the banality of evil, accept this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36286	Thank you very much, and it will be a break, of course. My colleague Rose Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36287	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, I'm also looking for a break to point out once again the importance of an initiative to amend the Penal Code, so in this case the ruling hands will decide whether to stand up for the abuser or give support to the victim. In this case, victims are mostly young people, so we're talking about girls first of all, but also young people about women. It is our duty and our duty to stand by them and give them clear and unequivocal support that they are not alone. So by ruling, don't turn your back on the victim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36288	And last in line, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36289	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to point out the following again as well as in the debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is not about political profit, and nobody should have looked at it that way because first of all we need to remember that this act of sexual harassment was introduced into the new Penal Code in 2011 just when it was the HDZ Government. On the other hand, we have explained throughout the debate that we are not against the objective that is to be achieved, but you have proposed to delete Article 3. 156. And the promoter himself said that the Penal Code is one of the most important laws, it's an organic law and it's not good to change it often, especially in 3 months. Twice. For this reason, since they are in accordance with the legislative plan, but in the course of the amendment and addition of the Penal Code, above all to transpose the EU Directive into the Criminal Code concerning another criminal offence, and by being visible in the Government's opinion on your proposal to be covered by amendments and additions and this amendment you are looking for and all other amendments to improve an even more normative framework for the protection of women from sexual abuse, I do not think it is justified to go twice in the procedure in 3 months, this is not good either for the sake of legal certainty. Also, in order to remove all those issues that we do not mean seriously, I stress that the HDZ Representatives' Club together with other clubs has reached a conclusion that is required by the government to do so as planned by May 30th of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36290	Thank you, the break will be approved. We have four injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please welcome fellow Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36291	Thank you. He's been injured. 238, so a colleague actually insults us and insults our intelligence when he says that something that is the level of recommendation about how often the Penal Code should be changed, more important than the possibility of sanctioning sexual harassment of a woman. So this is the new level of cynicism that we heard from your side. The question is, are we going to change it once or twice in three months? at 6 months. or a year is more important than that [[Intruder President: Thank you very much, colleague Bencic.]] whether the two or three women will be left without the possibility of prosecution. [[Intruder President: Comrade Bencic, thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36292	My colleague Bencic, therefore this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and on such a sensitive subject, you are now putting me in a position to warn you, and then you will probably say the same thing because I am not on the side of protecting those who are victims of abuse and violence. So, there is absolutely no violation of the Rules of Procedure in the presentation of colleague Jelkovac, what you are doing is hurting the Rules of Procedure and abusing this topic to collect political points, it is your right, and it is my duty to give you a warning. Here you go, now it's time for my colleague Selak Rasudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36293	Art. 238, the chairman insulted his colleague Bencic because you went to interpret her intentions that you have no idea or right to interpret. All you had to do was moderate the debate. My colleagues and colleagues, sweet little law, aren't here to have a dead letter on paper that can't even be touched. The laws are for people, not people for laws. Listen to your conscience, do not participate in the banality of evil, make a precedent, I know that you want it, and participate in it,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36294	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, I will give you a warning without comment. Here you go, comrade Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36295	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague hurt her ankle. 238, paragraph 1, because it demeaned or insulted all MPs. So, we're a legislative body in the Republic of Croatia and we're not obedients who have to wait for the government to direct the laws when it suits them and the dynamics that suit them. We need to take a proactive role, to which we have sworn here in the Croatian Parliament and our right And I'd say that... [[Intruder President: Fellow Voters, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36296	Thank you very much, time is up and you get a warning because this is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, this was one thing, the exposure was a classic statement of the position of Representative Jelkovac and you challenge her right to her position and you are still seeking a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I mean, it's weird to me, but okay. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36297	Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna risk my warning, too. I'm gonna call my ankle. In 238, since so far as has been stated, it has offended only the MPs in this House but also all the persuasive sacrifices that will not be passed by this law. So, the victims can't wait, you haven't proved by any argument, not even during the debate, but today why this law shouldn't be passed now and all the others and all the other changes in the second step. Don't make us... Don't insult us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36298	Thank you very much, colleague Puljak. Also, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a pure replica, and I need to give you a warning. And we're going to the last breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hereby declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure for the infringement of Article 1(1) of the Rules of Procedure. 238, my colleagues abused the possibility of this institute and replicated it, and I just want to say it one more time. The SDP club had the opportunity when we were making changes and additions to the Penal Code last time, just then we were changing item 3 on which they are now re-seeking changes, they could have suggested that. And I pray that all of you who have worshiped me together Ask the legal profession if it's good in 3 months [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] to change the Penal Code. [[Intruder President: Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u36300	So, I gave the MPs a warning because they broke the Rules of Procedure and if you'd stopped after that, then I wouldn't have given you a warning, but since you continued your line, I have to give you a warning, too. We are now moving to vote on the final draft law amending the Penal Code, stressing that it is in accordance with Article. 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require a semi-half majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting, so the Final Proposal for a Law amending a Penal Code that the Government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? And what is it, why can't I get a picture? A total of 127 MPs and MPs voted, 51 for, 2 abstentions and 74 against, which means no law amending the Penal Code has been passed. We will now move to one proposal of HDZ Clubs, the HNS-Liberal Democrats and Independent Representatives Club, the HSLS Club and the National Party-Reformist Party Club, the National Minority Representatives Club, the SDSS Representatives Club, which proposes to the Assembly the adoption of a conclusion that reads: It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver, by 31 May 2021 at the latest, in accordance with the EU Legislative Action Plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the 2021th time, to the Croatian Parliament and the Council of 17 April 2019 on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Compensation of Criminal Law, which, with the harmonisation of national legislation with the legal property of the EU through the transposition of the EU Directive 2019/713 of the EU Parliament and the Council of 17 April 2019 on the fight against fraud and counterfeiting in connection with non-cashion of fines and the framework of the law of law of law of law of law of law of law, and of law of law enforcement and of law enforcement. I am voting on this proposal to conclude the Clubs of Representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Okay? I find that 114 MPs and MPs voted, and all 114 were in favour so that the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37358	Now respected ladies and gentlemen, the vote to elect seven members of the HRT Programme Council is over. I declare that of the 151 voters, 109 MPs received the ballot, 106 MPs voted, the invalid ballots were 1. The candidates received the following number of votes, Dr. Sc. Nikola Baketta 99, Dr. Sc. Vlaho Bogisić 101, Djamal Bratić 89, dr.sc. Predrag Harami 5, Dr. Sc. Ivica Lučić 89, Zorislav Lukić 83, Robert Markt 85, Joško Marusic 8, dr.sc. Ivica Mishkelin 6, Dr. Sc. Ozana Ramljak 92. I hereby declare that Vlaho Bogisic, Nikola Baketa, Ozana Ramljak, Djamal Bratić, Ivica Lučić, Robert Markt and Zorislav Lukić were elected as members of the HRT Programme Council. I find that HS has made a decision to elect 7 members of the HRT Programme Council. This would end with today's work, we will continue on Wednesday 10 March at 9.30 and the first point will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biofuels for Transport, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 118. Have a nice weekend. MEETING Interrupted at 14:21 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37521	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 71, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for that law and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 128 MPs and MPs, 79 for, 14 abstentions, 35 against and thus the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 95, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for that law and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 128 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 9 abstentions, 42 against and thus the conclusion was reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37945	Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, everyone, please. Good afternoon, good afternoon. On the agenda is the first item: - Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2019: Commissioner for Information The Commissioner for Information is the Commissioner for Information under Article. 60. The law on the right to access information. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. The government has delivered an opinion that you have. Does the reporter want to give an additional explanation? Mr. Zoran Piculjan, Commissioner for Information, please. And good afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37946	Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with the law on established obligation, I present to the Croatian Parliament a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2019. This report is based on an analysis of individual reports submitted by the public authorities and on an analysis of the implementation of the supervisory and protective functions of the Commissioners in 2019. A demonstration of the state of access to information would be incomplete without a proposal to improve the observed shortcomings, therefore an integral part of the report and the focus of today's exposure is exactly that. its legal obligation to deliver an annual report to the Commissioner, has met almost 86% of the 5800 public authorities, thus continuing a slight growth in meeting this obligation. The right to access information, user-requesting sites and, in 2019, continued to be achieved with high percentage participation of resolved requests, 94% and the provision of information in full or in part. Over 80% of the body's government. All requests for access to information in 2019, almost 17 500 received something over 2,000 bodies, so only 30, almost 37% of the applicants of the application of this law. This corresponds to the ratio from earlier years and are the same bodies with the highest number of requests received, Croatian Water, City of Zagreb, Ministry of Environmental Protection, etc. Information on the body's requests shall be submitted by itself in an annual report to the Commissioner and shall not be verified to the greatest extent. That is why the report also puts forward a proposal to improve the system of access to information in the management of a single EU register on the resolution of requests with the possibility of continuous verification and the exercise of inspection supervision. The analysis of the appeal procedure, performances, users, as well as the findings of inspection controls, points out that there is still too often an ignoring of the user's requests or for procedural reasons to disable or delay access to information. It is a particularly worrying part of complaints about the silence of the administration which was gradually increased compared to 2018 when it was 48% and in 2019 it passed 55%. The applicants found it most difficult to obtain information in connection with the spending of budgets, public procurement and other facilities and public funds, public property records and outcomes... procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In these cases, obtaining information from the public authority is largely difficult without a statement of appeal to the Commissioner, however, it should be pointed out that the fact that an appeal procedure has already been initiated in cases of administrative silence has been initiated in more than 40% by the body's handling and resolution of requests but some authorities do not supply information to the users or by order of the Commissioners and in fewer cases ignore and refuse the enforcement of decisions by the Commissioners and decisions of the High Administrative Court. These obstacles should, above all, be removed by appropriate normative changes, regulating the procedure... the execution and establishment of a body to implement it, as indicated in this report as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to note that the only legal mechanism is to penalise non-compliance under the law now to conduct an infringement procedure, which is extremely rarely used due to the complexity and longevity of the procedure prescribed by the Infringement Act until 2019. In 2017, only 2, in 2018, no infringement warrants were issued. However, after amending the Code of Breaking the Law, 17 violations were filed in 2019 and one of the indictments. We also point out the incorrect definition of the person responsible in the law, whether it is a head or an official in the body, and therefore in relation to the unequal practices of the infringement courts, and hence the difficulty of passing the authority of the Commissioners. Prescribing the leader as a responsible person, while prescribing the possibility of direct payment of fines, would be more effective but exclusively criminal punishment and would lead to a reduction in the phenomenon that the bodies ignore the requests of the user. These normative interventions also fall within the proposals given in the report on the deterioration of the situation in the area of access to information. The report proposed another measure aimed at protecting the right to access. Periodic public reporting on non-execution of Commissioners' orders on his website. This measure has been postponed through amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner, currently in the public consultation process. When it comes to harming the right to information, it is worrying that in all disputed solutions in almost 61% of cases, public authorities have made decisions that do not comply with the law. These solutions have been annulled, the percentage of solutions cancelled by over 6% is higher than the previous year. The bodies shall, to the most extent, act unlawfully when it comes to the restriction of the right to access information due to an assessment of the protection of personal data, ignoring the possibility that access to information may be partially granted and calling for protection of business secrets without making such a statement in the regulations of the reasoned argument. In order to undermine access to information due to abuse of rights by users who, by their excessive requirements, make it difficult for the body to operate by 2019, have become a uniform long-term practice of the Commissioner and the court that directed the conduct of the body. However, the Court has changed the conditionally stated common position so far in such a way that abuses of rights cannot be when it comes to the availability of public funds, regardless of the fact that the conduct of users in relation to public authorities has all the characteristics of abuse. This legal understanding of the court has further stimulated the activity of individuals in submitting identical requests for access to extensive information. During 2019, the trend of a large number of complaints was continued by the same natural persons. Any excess of a very short legal deadline for resolving 15 days has been fined by appeal to the Commissioner, and the inability of the Commissioner's office to process all complaints within 30 days by launching a administrative dispute and by demanding compensation for the costs of conducting the procedure. Thus, in 2019, out of 177 administrative disputes, 36% of them were initiated because of the so-called the silence of the administration or not to resolve the appeal within the legal time limit. The frequency of the case and the insistence of the Commissioners to prevent judicial costs which, in 2019, was largely successful, additionally burdened the work of the office and I am in breach of the order of resolution of complaints. Although the percentage of second-degree solutions by the Commissioner remained very high around 82% in 2019 fell compared to previous years. A slightly weaker percentage than the previous years were influenced by a change in the position of the High Administrative Court on the inability to abuse the right and change the view of the inability to declare the objection of users to the notice of the public authority, and a change related to the calculation of the deadline for the delivery of a solution leaving the long-term harmonised practice of the Commissioner and the Court. Applying new legal considerations to the court the success of the Commissioner and his office in administrative disputes in 2020. It grew to about 95%. At the same time, at the same time, the legal perceptions of the court in connection with the abuse of rights in 2020 and the costs of the dispute are not correct and the procedure for reviewing the legality of the high-level administrative judgments before the Supreme Court has been initiated. In addition to ensuring protection in individual cases, the law is conceptually based on self-initiative, proactive information to the public through public authorities' websites. For this purpose, continuous but every year additional targeted analytical monitoring of selected segments of proactive information publication and inspection shall be used for years. In 2019, analytical monitoring also pointed to irregularities and non-compliances in the conduct of the body under this obligation. Despite the generally increased scope of the published information, it is indicated that the different levels of representation of certain types of information, and as information for which the lowest average level of proactive publication is observed, are the lists of data sets, and the register and databases suitable for re-use, donation, sponsorship and other grants with a level of amount, notices of the outcomes of tender procedures, conclusions from meetings, information on the work of formal working bodies. In 2019, analytical monitoring of the transparency of JLS from 5 counties was continued. 143 units of local and regional self-government. The results seen in the report point to an extremely large range to meet the transparency indicators from 14 to 91% of the local and regional units monitored, expecting the most successful counties and larger cities, although some municipalities have also pointed out as examples of good practice at local level. The monitoring found that, by monitoring, all ministries have found that they publish laws and other regulations, but in different ways, with different levels of transparency and easy availability, and that compliance with the recommendations of the Commissioners has been requested. As regards the transparency of chambers when it comes to the publication of budget documents and reports, it has been found that only 7 out of 26 chambers publish all documents relating to financial planning and reporting. The pro-active publication of information is in direct connection with the possibility of uninterrupted re-use of information, etc. the open data, which indicated in the report the obligation to transpose the Open Data Directive and re-use of public sector information by 17 July 2021, requiring the newisation of the law. The report therefore stresses the obligation of the public authority to draw up and publish a list of sets of data from its jurisdiction, and all those sets of data over which there are no restrictions on publication in machine-readable formats on its websites, as well as on the open data portal. It also points out the need to adopt an action plan for the implementation of the open data policy. Proactive disclosure of information was also followed through the inspection supervision of the public authorities. In 2019 47 inspection controls were carried out, primarily indirect and targeted, which is a significant step in relation to 2018 when 26 surveillance was carried out. One of the most important proactive obligations of a body that requires interaction with citizens concerns the implementation of public consultation in the adoption of regulations and other acts affecting public interests. It is positive that almost double the number of bodies that are recognised by consulting obligations, the number of consultations conducted is on a continuous rise, but the duration of the consultation does not satisfy, nor does the quality of communication with the participants of the consultation. Analysis of the Office of Commissioners relating to the monitoring of public consultation on published acts and documents in the National Journal in 2019. show a significant increase in the share of consultations carried out at the level of all the acts observed. Analyzing the rules of the highest ranking counselling was conducted for all legislative proposals with over 80% of the regulations, and significantly increased by regulations over 86%. The results of monitoring transparency and openness at regional and local level indicate that the level of obligation and quality of the consultation itself is still relatively low. As far as public consultation is concerned, it is evident that the consultation was conducted within the legal period prescribed in just 40% of cases, which we consider necessary to normatively specify, and therefore we consider it necessary to normically specify the time limit of implementation of the consultation, and to arrange this institute. Promotion of rights in 2019 has been conducted through specialised education, but also other proactive activities, and through participation in public events. A total of 38 educations were held, the first annual consultation of information officers was held, an advanced educational model for information officers was developed, a round table was organised in the Croatian Parliament for the marking of the International Day of Right of Access to Information. The implementation of the targeted campaign has started with the right to access information for young people. I consider it important to further highlight the creation of 6 guidelines and guidelines related to the implementation of legal provisions for the purpose of its standardisation because it is precisely the application of standards by the public authority, an additional guarantee of greater quality of the speed of obtaining information. In conclusion, we believe that, in order to increase the quality of the quality and to exercise the right to access information during the period followed by a synergy of action in such a way as to ensure that at the level of the public authorities, the permanent support of key persons, public authorities and management officers in the exercise of the right to access to information, that the Commissioner for Information and the Commissioner's Office is constantly raising standards of access to information of public interest by individual requirements, but above all in a proactive publication, that state authorities and authorities systematically improve the legal framework and implement national strategies and policies of access to information and open data. The results of the day of the report presented for 2019 will soon be comparable to the situation in 2020 based on the report to be forwarded to the Croatian Parliament by the end of March of this year. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37947	Thank you, too. You have several replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37948	Thank you very much. Here is the respected, how to comment on the fact that when parliamentary representatives ask written parliamentary questions to ministers or government, they wait for their answer over 30 days, some even a few months, and in fact the only thing that the president of the Croatian Parliament can send haste, we call on ministers, but some of them have no effect. Have we been denied the right to access information? That's the first part. Secondly, I saw that the number of days or days of the consultation had fallen to all instances since 2018 on 2019, so the state authorities and bodies of the state administration, the local self-government unit, where is the problem? So why is that deadline cut short? And when you look at the end of the law, she consults the public, you see that there are some important laws where you expect a lot of people to be interested, there are too few interested in the debate. Is that where this deadline is wrong? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37949	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Pichulan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, regarding this first question of yours, remember that we are just last year because, and that is why I pointed out our guidelines, we have made an additional one of our guidelines regarding access to information, enabling the right to access information to representatives and council members through the application of the Law of Accession, but we certainly believe that it is primarily and that this is our understanding that I do not at all need to question, that everything that is to be right to access the information of the Croatian Parliament's representatives should be achieved primarily through communication established by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because by entering into the instrumentary of the Act of Accession, MPs are practically in the same procedure as all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by the same administrative procedure and resolving their demands, of course, sometimes not always until the end. And that's why I gave one of my own, this one, and we gave one of our recommendations. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] And I'll give you this second answer on your counseling later. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37951	Thank you, thank you. The bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37952	Thank you. Your Honor, I will later touch this right to access information in my debate, but now one question. Under the law, an expert with a recognised ethical and professional reputation may be elected to the Commissioner. The Commissioner may also be resolved if circumstances arise that cause him to no longer meet the legal requirements. You were Secretary General of Foreign Affairs when Ambassador Pari was in '96. A decision on the appointment of the Chief shall be issued. Mr. Parrot had a high school at the time and he had to have a college for the post of chief. Ambassador Paro told the Anti-Corruption Council that he had never falsely reported his qualifications anywhere, which, if true, means that someone else abused his position when he signed the solution. Did you sign Mr. Piculyan's decision in 1996? If it wasn't you, who was it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37953	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37954	Dear Mr. Representative, I was Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Decisions on promotions, Decisions on schedules, Decisions on any decision on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, never in today's system or nor, unless it has been transferred and but in today's system, neither in today's law nor in then has the Secretary of the Ministry made, but always the head, always the minister, minister or deputy minister. So in the case you're speaking, it was certainly the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37955	Mr. Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37956	Your Honor, Vice President. Your Honor, the right to access information is guaranteed by our Constitution. It is also a right to protect the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. There is information that is not available at a certain time, such as which could damage court proceedings, during court proceedings. Information that would damage public security or information about certain diplomatic and business activities. But what's going on? When does such information leak, or what are the sanctions? Does the information not appear on its own but is someone who is available for any reason? What is your role as Commissioner?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37957	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37958	Thank you very much. Regarding the leak of information, this is not the subject, it is not the content of the action of the Commissioner for Information, its role is protected, meaning solving in complaints, it is overseeing the application of this law but not in terms of leaking information. In terms of leaking information, it is certain, they have institutions, there are institutions dealing with it, not the Commissioner for the right to access.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37959	Mrs. Devereaux. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37960	Thank you. Dear Mr. Piculjan, your report has been presented very dry. I would prefer that you explained the inconsistent and inconsistencies of misdemeanor decisions on specific examples. This way neither we as MPs nor our citizens have good insight into the right state of affairs when we talk about the right to access information. However, my main observation refers to one absurd. So on the one hand, you call the public authorities on a proactive disclosure of information, and we have had situations where the government, first of all, does not provide the Commission with a decision on the conflict of interest, like the other competent authority, with the information needed to resolve the cases of their jurisdiction. As an institution, you, as the holder of that institution, have done nothing proactively to protect that fundamental constitutional and legal right of citizens to know what public authorities are doing with their money and with their public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37961	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37962	As far as the offenses are concerned, I think I've given enough one, one review of his criminal punishment, and here we've pointed to weakness, what's not good in the criminal system, and we've offered a solution. As far as specificity is concerned, we are very specific in all, for the first time in 2019 we have imposed more significant criminal sanctions than, as a rule, the mayors of the municipality who, who committed offences until earlier. But we continue to believe that this mechanism is not good and we are offering a better mechanism, and this is a forced enforcement of the Commissioner's decisions in a way that determines direct monetary sanctions. As far as I'm concerned, with the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, I think the Commissioner is in every part, that I do, that we have done everything and we have never gone beyond our legal authority, but neither have we, nor have we failed anything. No, that no, I didn't understand what part of us made that mistake with the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest? We're two independent institutions each dealing with their own area In accordance with the law. [[Intruder: Thank you, time, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37963	Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37964	Dear Secretary of State, we recently had an eclectic example of violation of the rights of Croatian citizens to access information. It's about referendum initiatives, two referendum initiatives. One was to amend the election law, and the other was to cancel the Istanbul Convention. Andrej Plenkovic, who actually de facto counted the signatures of his government or his ministry, or Minister Kuščević, had an exceptional and great interest in not passing these referendum initiatives. The referendum initiatives, i.e. their representatives, were not allowed to have the right insight into the number of signatures, i.e. at all the errors that allegedly existed. I want to hear your comment on this most recent example of violation of the right to insight into information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37965	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37966	This certainly does not involve the Commissioner's right to access information to comment on whether someone, whether a government or anyone has violated regulations that are not within the area of access to information. I can judge as a person, but I can't do that, I have to be the Commissioner for Access to Information that any such, by any means, such a notion or appeal would have been dealt with by us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37967	No, you don't, you have more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37968	No, I think that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37969	Okay. And Mr. Zekanovic's break, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37970	Dear Vice President HS, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to further consult on this bill. So, dear Secretary of State, you're here in this position that you are because you're a politician and you have a political position. I am asking you for your political position, your opinion on an extremely important issue, I will dare say the most important issue in Croatia's recent political history. Most importantly, where from my point of view and from the point of view of 100 thousand people who have signed these referendum initiatives to Croatian citizens are denied the right to access information. And that's what matters. We can now talk about a 1001 second smaller example where this right is violated, but this is the most important and greatest example or the best example or the worst example you want where the right is denied. And when I asked you to tell me your position, your opinion of the most important example of a violation of the right to access information, you're telling me that you're not the one. Tell me who it is I can ask or who it is who can give me information about the violation of the right to access information in this particular case? I think that you are this person, or your colleague, a proposing colleague, and that you can and must give information about this case. I will repeat the question to you briefly, so the referendum initiative "The Truth of Istanbul" which wanted to cancel the Istanbul Convention and the referendum initiative "The People Decisions" which wanted to change the electoral system had no insight into how to count the signatures by Andrej Plenkovic, Minister Kuštević or the competent ministry. And later when we looked for this insight they had it under unfair conditions as if it were Russia in 1918, not Croatia in 2000 and, which was, in '18, here is exactly 100. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37971	Thank you, thank you very much. You don't, you don't, you don't need to answer that. Approving... No, no, you are granted a break, but we continue to work on saving time if you agree with it because it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Maja coat of arms Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Piculjan, you listed the report during 2019. 38 educations were held, of which 34 for officials, leaders and management officers, and 4 for users. Often, public administration authorities face a lack of knowledge of the obligations arising from the provision of information. So, for you, we have a question, do you think I should increase the amount of education this intended for users? It takes for others, and for public administration, but for users, it seems to me that four educations have been carried out all year round, given that there are new things, there are still some misunderstandings, and I didn't see in what you suggested to do further, recommendations, that you had predicted these educations. Well, here, I'm asking nicely for an explanation and I appeal to introduce education for users in larger ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37973	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37974	... you have a right, but we have really spent a very large number of educations and educations are one significant part of our work and we have extended it significantly to the regional level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, last year it was not possible to do this directly to a good extent, but we were also targeting users, young people as users, it may not have been mentioned in the numerical section, and we had a special target group, we are going to step up from users, but what we think was very important, that we have extended to both leaders and management officers just realizing that there is sometimes the right answer for why the information is not available, and we have certainly continued and you have probably replaced, for the first time since 2013, we have organised counselling, annual counselling, great counselling for information officers and we will continue to do so. There he is. It's also a difficult task. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We'll enhance education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37975	Thank you, Mr. Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37976	I thank the Vice-President of HS, Secretary of State, here's a thank you for the report in which you can actually read out everything you've done and what irregularities have been seen. It's a set of statistics, but it can also be a signpost, removing certain irregularities. Here, my question is about how the leaders who have seen irregularities in transparency behave, especially here when it comes to budgets and the use of money, and we see that there aren't exactly what things are supposed to be and what sanctions are in the observed irregularities, again, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37977	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37978	I initially said that we are a modus.../incomprehensible/... the way sanctions are criminal sanctions when you find that someone does not enforce the law and does not allow access, when they do so over and over again. Indeed, by 2018, these were not used infringing mechanisms for the reasons of the lack of the Criminal Code itself, something was improved in 2019 by amending the law, but we also have different practices of misdemeanor courts, and therefore we continue to use this mechanism, but we are offering this report and we have offered this to the legislator to regulate the procedure of forced enforcement of the Commissioner's decision, or the solution to impose the power of decisions of the Commissioners in a way that determines monetary sanctions for the offenders of such, permanent offenders, those who violate this law. We think that this modus and that way are much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37979	Thank you. Mr. Habian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37980	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Pichuljan, in your report you state that you received 814 complaints in 2019. However, if we look at the structure of the applicant, then it actually turns out that the largest number of complaints, 289 submitted or submitted by only 12 complainants. Moreover, one complainant made 125 complaints. It is clear that this abuse of rights burdens your work, and your report shows that, in any case, the resolution of the appeal within the legal period, the same citizen is initiating an administrative dispute, using the services of a lawyer, and in that way, it is also exposing your state budget to the costs of the administrative dispute, and it turns out that by actually using this institution, this institution actually made a good business. Since the provisions of the existing law do not contain a mechanism that would prevent those persons from being litigated that, in your opinion, mechanisms in any future amendments to the law could prevent this kind of phenomenon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37981	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37982	Here, these discussions, this and oh, how do you solve this abuse? We set one practice that has worked for several years, and especially in recent years where we have determined, when the subjective and objective elements of abuse were by the applicants of one or more or more of the requirements that required a huge number of information that we did not assess were all in the public interest, then we determined the minimum information that should be given, which they were, and that standard we achieved, and all the other information we determined by abuse. Unfortunately, or, so is the legal understanding of the High Administrative Court that the abuse of information does not have in the possession of public funds, it is a very broad formulation of legislation and we have submitted a request to the Supreme Court to review that decision, while offering the Ministry of Administration as the holder of the law to resolve this through legislative intervention and to determine which minimum information must be available to the public regarding the spending of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37983	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. He's a bad guy. He's a bad guy. He's a bad
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37984	Thank you, dear Vice President, Mr. Pichuljan. The right to access information is considered a fundamental assumption in the construction of a democratic society, effective achievement and protection of the right to access information is a mirror of the responsibility and transparency of the bodies of each government and, of course, we all need to strive together. I'm going to replicate here today as president of the Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals. In this way, we have colleagues and I have insight into a number of performances that we have received from Croatian citizens who complain about the work of the public authorities, often complain about the inability to obtain legitimate information and in a process based on the Law on Access to Information. So they often ask us for help, how to ask for that information. In 2019 we communicated, you have our performances, you answered them, we solved some items together, but I'm curious, what are you able to do to make citizens get better information on how to get the right information they need?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37985	Thank you. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37986	So I'd be the right information would be that information, it's the spirit of this law or the spirit of its proper application that information that is proactively published on the body's website public, it's a significant obligation for public authorities' bodies and... A great commitment and a necessary obligation for all those who have rights, those information that are of interest, of particular interest to citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, it is not easy and simple, surveillance, we carry out monitoring and education as to how this action is proactively published and as to improving whether we are from the measure of improving the right to access in this report. We think that the quality of solving individual requirements is also the creation of standards, now we publish these standards through our publication and we will now summarise them on our website and publish them in a way that is acceptable to everyone. If you follow body standards, you follow standards, there will be a higher level of right to access. A much higher level of access rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37987	Thank you. And Mr. Bull at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37988	Thank you very much. Legally on information is a fundamental right which should be primarily for public authorities. However, in Croatia, public procurement is being conducted, we see through mostly clubs where those who are in power are... The authorities of the judiciary may have been either a commissioner or someone on his team, e.g. at Club 9, in Slovenia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tell me, is there some kind of statistical calculation, how many of them were affected by public procurement on privileged information like in the club in Slovenia 9 where Janaf's work was affected? Do you have any information about this because these floscules you've been talking here since the beginning of your report are lame, only because of what the competition has failed through public procurement such as listening to Slovenska 9. Well, do you have any information or any of yours or yours, was he at Club 9 by the money counter from your information, yours?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37989	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37990	Thank you very much. I'm not a politician and I haven't been to any club or club 9 and the issue of public procurement is being solved as well in... When such a case comes before the Commissioner in the shorting and the Commissioner's office in reducing information and on public procurement or inactive, we respond to it in accordance with the legal powers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have statistics and we don't run it in a way that the esteemed representative has said, but in any case we individually and we warn when we see on the websites and the information is not published and we do it through inspection surveillance. It is no longer the task of the Commissioner and no less.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37991	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Do the applicants want a report from the board? You're free for now. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? [[Intruder Pichuljan: Thank you.]] No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, first Mr. Marin Miletic is in front of the Club of Representatives of the Mosto. Here you go, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37992	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Furio Radin, the esteemed Mr. Bukarica, honourable Commissioner with his associates, colleagues, fellow MPs, respected journalists who follow our work in the Croatian Parliament, Croatian peoples. In front of us is the Report of the Commissioner for Information on the Implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2019. The report has a lot of data but it is not possible to create a real picture of the availability of information in our country. So in this debate, I will be very specific, I like to be specific, I like to be clear, I want to show you and the whole of Croatia to the public what kind of state we live in. I'm going to talk about concrete things, concrete examples, and then you're going to tell me what the real situation is, Commissioner, what is the real state of things with access to information. Croatian public, media, this paper I hold in my hand is a solution that has been made by the DIP on one request for access to information. I've got it in my hand, I could actually do this, so if we could do better... In fact, just over a year ago, in our country, elections were held for President of the Republic of Croatia. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] All those who wanted to run in those elections had to collect at least 10,000 voters' signatures. So then we watched the presidential candidates come pompously here in the Croatian Parliament building to hand over the boxes of signatures. The DIP as a body is in charge of verifying the candidacy, also carried out a signature check. After the election ended, did the DIP, as a request for access to information, have a question, had among the collected signatures and signatures of those voters who passed away? Died before the signing began. So let me be clear. We're talking about the signatures of dead people here. Croatian public, we're talking about the signatures of dead people. The DIP responded to a request for access to information that among the signatures attached to individual bids, there were signatures of voters who had long passed away. At the same time, however, the State Election Commission refused to provide information on whose bids have been signed by dead people. How many of those signatures are dead people, to be plastic? The Croatian public hides information exactly how many dead people, dead citizens in the Republic of Croatia, supported someone or some presidential candidate by their signature. So how is that possible? How much, a hundred? A hundred dead citizens sign? 1,000? 2000? 3000? 5,000? Maybe 8,000? What country do we live in? Dead people vote, dead people sign. Hey, gentlemen, the Croatian public. What kind of state do we live in, so what did we do? Whose responsibility is that? The DIP has filed criminal charges against the unknown perpetrator for the criminal offence of counterfeiting the document of the art. 278 of the Penal Code. Following the criminal charges filed, calling for the fact that potential criminal offences are under way, the DIP refused to provide information with whose bids the signatures of deceased persons appear and how many such signatures. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you, Commissioner here, in front of the Croatian public and the media. In front of the Croatian public, does the DIP have the right to deny such information from the public? Who is it that allowed us to live in a state where dead citizens sign signatures, in which dead citizens vote? Who's that? Whose responsibility is that? Do we have the right to know, do the citizens have the right to know who signed for their candidacy collected by cemetery in the Republic of Croatia? I guess it's an interest of clarity to know who brought in the signatures of these deceased persons. So are we going to let our citizens who passed away many, many years ago, here, I don't know, like the tomb milkmaid I'm wearing on the bedside, these people have passed away, which we're going to let, what kind of society we want, these people vote, give their signatures to whoever's underneath, you know how, now we're going to fix it,... No, it's not like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're not gonna let that happen. Let's remember the heifer that was organized on some referendum initiatives because they had less than one revision of such signatures. Even some former politicians, constituencies, filed criminal charges against referendum initiatives, and then reconnaissances of crimes were not an obstacle to the publication of the number of deceased persons, about that time may be. It's still, uh, you know how, when it's in your backyard, then, is it? And when it's someone else's, then we'll point the finger at it. I don't think so. When it comes to controlling and punishing political fraud, I will repeat, when it is necessary to punish, control political fraud, then no information is given to citizens under cover of criminal investigation. Where's the right to access information? All the time, stomach cramps, but not me as a parliamentary representative, but that stomach cramp I have for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because they feel a deep injustice. Look, look in the distance. And we create because I'm part of it, too, and that's why I raise my voice, my society equal and equal. E won't work. It won't work. A year of DORH, DORH, greeting DORH, one year, DORH and the police are unable to untangle who forged the signatures of dead people. Come on, gentlemen. Make that cut without paste more with politics and do your job. That's enough of that. So what do we tell the Croatian citizens now? Do we have the right to know if we have the right to access information or if all these laws are a dead letter on paper that serves to conceal bad and hypocritical politicians who belong somewhere else, forgive me for this, not here at HS. Let's not be hypocritical. The right to access information is written in our Constitution and in our laws, but in practice we cannot achieve it when it comes to large things, and the right that you cannot achieve, so it is no right. Well, that's just a joke. We in the Bridge will continue to be persistent, I'd say sports dictionary, we'll play press to the judge's whistle. I'm a athlete after all. And we're going to get this information because there's a clear interest in making it available to the public. If they won't give us the DIP, we'll ask you to, Commissioner. And if you don't help us, we'll look for them through court. The Croatian public will find out who the signatures were collected for by the dead citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37993	Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37994	Dear Proposer, Honored Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. In life, and so in politics there are some turning points. One of the key political milestones in Croatia's political space in recent years has been one convention, or one referendum initiative. It was the Istanbul Convention, the Truth about Istanbul, which wanted to cancel the convention. Also, in parallel with the initiative, another initiative has appeared to amend the electoral law, "The People decide". The two initiatives, primarily this Istanbul, broke Croatian society in half, on the one hand was A. Plenkovic with his HDZ and SDP who supported him, and on the other hand we were Croatian sovereigns who were unfortunately the only in the Croatian Parliament to defend what the people wanted, the only theme we mentioned in the Croatian Parliament. And there was a referendum. And when hundreds of thousands of citizens signed to cancel the Istanbul Convention, those signatures ended up at the ministry at Minister Kuscevic's. And for weeks, he was counting them, not only was he counting that pattern that was practice, what was the practice of Minister Bauk's office, but he was counting all the signatures, and he found it reportedly, on the waterline I have to say, tens of thousands of signatures that have some kind of mistake. Somewhere in the OIB, a number was unclearly written, so some letter in the name was vaguely written, inexplicably, somewhere it was forgotten, left out, it was mostly about tens of thousands of signatures of real people, living people who wanted to cancel the Istanbul Convention and change the Election Law but those signatures by one strict criterion, an unfair criterion, I will say to an unfair criterion, A. Plenkovic refused. I will not blame Minister Kuštević, who is here today, in the political past, at least as far as national policy is concerned, but I will talk about the real employer of the whole story. That's A. Plenkovic. And now what you esteemed proposer must know. When you have two interested parties and in one case it was the Croatian government and HDZ and on the other hand you have a people, one people's initiative, then someone has to be a Moderator, and we didn't have a modernator because one side told me the other side we don't give an insight into the signatures. You have no right to access information. And then after insisting, insisting, it's allowed, but in what way? All hour and a half, exactly the chosen people, you know exactly how they're going to get in, no cell phones, no paper, no pen, and every observer for a dozen of them, you'd come up for another or two guards who'd be careful that something illegal wouldn't happen, and they're these few minutes, hours out there trying to find something, something to remember, and that's it. Is that the right to access information? Well, it's not, of course it's not. It's unspeakable. It is clear to me and to the Croatian public that, in any case, the Istanbul Convention was cancelled by a referendum, and the people would cancel it, A. Plenkovic would fall. Only this does not give A. Plenkovic the right to disable, deny the citizens of our country of Croatia the right to gain insight into information. For the right to access information. It doesn't give him that right because here he says, so this is the Ministry's site, says all users are equal and equal in achieving the right to access information. Therefore, the public authorities should not place the users in an unfavourable position, and in particular to please individual users, or to provide them with information rather than to others. So everyone has the same right. And here in one case we had a situation that the government, by ruling, by name and last name, said who, not Minister Kuscevic, did the opposite. And now we're talking about the right to access information in general, and we're going to find a whole series of examples when that right is broken and you're even going to fix it, but the only thing that's key is this. Because this is an eclectic example of a violation of the right to access information because it broke the state in half. And he is actually a guideline on which all future Croatian governments and all Croatian authorities will work, act when it comes to the right to access information. Or they'll do whatever they want. I just asked you to tell me about it and you're still proposing you have the right to it, take your word and come here. And to say that kind of human, so it's not right because it's really wrong, but time goes by, years have passed, it's been a few years, it's gone into oblivion, it's going to be another five years, at the end of 10 years, no one's going to know what the Istanbul Convention is, gender ideology is going to be, it's going to be, we all see how it works every day. But it doesn't matter. There's gonna be something new, something new, something new, something fifth, eventually and the most basic information they're going to ask for, someone will tell you you can't get it, and when you say why, because you can't. Why? Because I'm A. Plenkovic and I don't give you the right to access information. Why don't you give it to me? I won't. And a point. But there are no institutions to protect Croatian citizens. So I will recapitulate and conclude, there are many examples of violations of the right to access information but there is one in the recent Croatian past that has been an eclectic and visual example of how society is changing. I'm asking for your attitude and for the correction of this. If finally here, perhaps after a few years, the representatives of the initiative, the citizens have insight, to see who signed it, and which is why some signatures have been rejected. What's this about? Is it the lack of a clutch or something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37995	The promoter called. Here you go. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37996	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, just one brief answer because I've remained in part in debt, yes, and now I've checked in our office. Here, perhaps, to clarify the same misunderstanding. There is an institution that addresses recommendations that are entitled to access information and not to provide information in any public authority or government or ministries. This is the Commissioner for Information, and in this section we do not act on official duty. That's not our job. We are acting in the appeal procedure and we have practice, and I can present this practice, in 2015 we have just made it possible to see by appeal, we have made it possible to see the invalid ballots in the presidential elections and it may not be similar, but it is very, nevertheless one and that insight has been achieved. So, in the appeal procedure, it is possible to achieve this, and I cannot prejudge the solution, as I will, in the end I will respond to the distinguished representative Miletic at the end of this entire exhibition and then in the case in which we can solve things, but only what is most important, there is no indemnity of the institution of the insight of the Commissioners and... but there is a way in which it can do so, and that is only in the appeal procedure and through the concepts which we then initiate and inspection or resolution again by appeal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that, I would say that we have a very standardized, very good practice and that practice generally confirms, and here and I gave you this example, confirms that if the information is not, if there is no legal restriction, it's not allowed, it's not, it's too much public interest, and that's my answer. My answer is that in the legal procedure we will, as always, make a decision and impose the right to access, if it is based on the law, without any doubt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37997	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37998	Dear Secretary of State, that is, the Commissioner for Information. Is the Commissioner for Information alive in Croatia? Does he see what's going on? He might as well be on official duty, I suppose, running some kind of procedure? So he can't. Someone needs to report it to him. He'll be reported today. Since he lives on Mars obviously, or is it not, therefore, that commissioner lives on Mars, is he in Croatia? In Croatia? Of course. So today you'll get it, you'll get it in writing, and then you'll react by it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u37999	Okay. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Nadj in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38000	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed commissioner with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Report of the Commissioner for Information on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2019 In accordance with Article. The 60th century 4 of the Law, Commissioner for Information, submits a report to HS on the implementation of this Act no later than 31 March of the current year for the previous year. The question is why the report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information for 2019 came on the HS agenda today, March 5, 2021, as the Commissioner delivered it to HS on 30 March 2020. Article 38(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia entitled to access information owned by public authorities established as a rule. According to the constitutional provision, restrictions on access to information are possible, but must be proportionate to the nature and needs of the restriction in each individual case, necessary in a free democratic society and can only be prescribed by law. According to Art. 60th wheel. 15 The Law on the right to access information, the Commissioner is an independent state body to protect access to information, and the right to access information is an important tool to combat corruption. In the 2019 and 2020 action plan in the anti-corruption strategy for the period from 2015 to 20. Mr. Commissioner is the holder or bearer of a series of activities to prevent corruption, such as the creation of a new questionnaire for self-evaluation of transparency and openness, the implementation of education for officials in public authorities on the right to access information, the implementation of campaigns for users of access to information, the development of guidelines on access to information, etc. All these activities have been carried out. The right to access information must be achieved through effective legal means and within reasonable time limits. We therefore support the proposal of the Commissioner for Informing Zoran Piculjan for the Change of the Law on Access to Information with the aim of effective exercise of the right to access information with an emphasis on public interest, and in particular we support the amendments to this law with the aim of pro-active publication of spending of public funds. It is necessary, in order to align and stabilise the application of the law, to remove both the ambiguities and weaknesses of the existing legal framework to which the bodies of the public authorities, the Commissioner and the High Administrative Court have indicated. The development of this law should ensure a better level of exercise of rights and protection of the rights of users, more precisely the definition of public authorities and their obligations and the strengthening of the enforcement of decisions by the Commissioners. The list contains reports on the implementation of the law for 2019 at the time of processing. 5 808 public authorities that are reporting bonds. It is necessary to consider the applicable definition of the public authority body and to specify more precisely the scope of the legal obligations for certain categories of public authority bodies, in particular in the part of the proactive publication on the websites, but in the part which regulates the provision of public meetings and the implementation of consultation with the public. The same obligations should not be prescribed for, for example, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property and Veterinary Medicine or Fire Community. The information on the complaints received shows that the non-resolvement of the requests by the user remains a serious problem of applying the Law on Access to Information, as well as the reason that can be explained in one part, a large number of complaints made by the public authority on the ground that when a braker is a place of 15 calendar days is too short for some EU members have longer deadlines such as Slovenia, means 20 working days. The report states that, during 2019, in 64 or 36.16% of cases, administrative dispute was initiated due to the non-resolvement of the appeal within the legal period, i.e. the same user started 48.59% of all administrative disputes. The report points out the continuity of increasing the number of requests of the same or the same users which further make it difficult to place the position of Commissioners of the High Administrative Court who do not have an appropriate response in the existing legal framework to a significant increase in the number of complaints or complaints. The fact is that in almost every public law body, we have a person who repeatedly sends complaints or initiates administrative disputes, so often with the writings of an individual complainant, the entire office is buried. Sometimes complaints and lawsuits are shown justifiable, and sometimes despite the refusal of the appeal, the same appeal is filed again. How is this problem systematically resolved so that administrative capacity is not engaged needlessly without the constitutional right to appeal being disabled? That's something we have to deal with. Of the total number of complaints made in 2019 the maximum number of complaints relate to requests sent to units of local, regional (regional) self-government and state administration bodies. It is evident from this which public authorities, or information they have at their disposal, are the focus of citizens' interests. When we take a closer look at the Commissioner's decisions on the appeal procedure, we see what the public authorities would actually want not to be available. So, for example. a list of all credit users credited by HBOR during a certain period, reports on the property of the former official, donor list, minutes from the meeting of the Council of the CNB, total payments to witches, tender documentation for the tender for jobs, etc. We must immediately link this to the fact that the Anti-Corruption Strategy promotes integrity and transparency in the work of state bodies and institutions by putting emphasis on the responsibility of public officials. Let us not be fooled that when an unfounded request for access to certain information available to the public authority is denied that only the information officer is behind it without having knowledge of it by the head of the body who is ultimately responsible for the transparency of that body of the public authority. The proactive publication of information of public character on public authorities' websites is a key way of informing the public and ensuring transparency in modern society and a tool for democratic control through which citizens can monitor the work of body financing and engage in the decision-making process. It is a legal obligation for all bodies to publish documents on a continuous and self-initiative basis, information on the prescribed article. Ten. Laws aimed at making themselves easily accessible and accessible to the general public. The list of public authorities found that 737 or 12.7% of the 5,808 public authorities had no website at all or published information on the other body’s website. The Law on the right to access information taxfully provides information which bodies should publish in an easily searchable manner and in a machine-readable form. The proper fulfilment of this obligation is more effective and economical than the submission of individual requests for access to information. In his previous work, the Commissioner for Information noted that public authorities often show a lack of understanding of that legal provision mainly by companies which, for reasons of non-disclosure of conclusions and other information relating to meetings of congregations, supervisory boards and other college bodies, call for business secrecy or protection of personal data. It may be that when some public authorities are not concerned with misunderstanding of obligations under the law, but rather about deliberately avoiding the publication of information, to avoid any dilemma concerning the publication of information by the public authorities, the Commissioner in 2019 adopted additional guidelines for the proactive publication of the agendas of meetings and conclusions and the possibility of attending them. It is pointed out in the guidelines that the agendas must be published in a timely manner within the appropriate time-limit before the meetings are held, and not after them. When we talk about the obligation to consult an interested public, it is pointed out that counselling is often shorter than 30 days, it is obviously a problem with a legal provision that prescribes that counselling is in the rule of 30 days. In any event, this provision on advice for the interested public should be developed in order to enable all interested stakeholders to make observations on draft draft regulation proposals, in addition to that, public authorities should publish on their websites proactively information on the conduct of consultations with the public concerned from their jurisdiction in order to attract as many of those involved in these consultations as possible and to make observations, all in order to improve the quality of the rules. In any case, the SDP club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38001	You, too. Mrs. Rada Boric will now represent the position of the green-left bloc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38002	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Commissioner Pichulan with his associates. When HS adopted a significantly improved law on access to information at its meeting of 15 February 2013, it adopted a significantly improved Law on the right to access information compared to the original one in 2003. The Republic of Croatia has met one of the last conditions that 1.7 would be accepted into the EU, and it should not be forgotten and in this demanding context this report should be evaluated, which, of course, does not have such a long history and tells us why it would be important to use the Institute of the Law on Access to Information. The Green-Left bloc club will support the Commissioner for Information's report. With regard to the content itself, we consider it most important to highlight this report, and I will refer in particular to Chapter E of the assessment of priorities, proposals and recommendations for removing deficiencies and irregularities. As a general assessment, the Commissioner points out that, during 2019, certain improvements in the work of the public authorities body have been achieved, but that there remain problems that require greater and continued involvement of public authorities, starting with the head of the body, information officers and other persons involved in the process of exercising access rights and re-use of information in order to make information real available to users. In this context, we would like to highlight something that is often neglected that information owned by a public authority can have a very important development potential that exceeds the need for public administration supervision by users or mere democratisation in accessing public authority information. Where today the largest number of information produced in public authorities is in digital form i.e. We are given great opportunities for useful, fast, simple, logical but complex and scientific analyses with simple or complex digital age tools. For example. According to information on the drop in electricity or gas consumption for the household, we can perceive the tendency of demographic depletion of certain parts of Croatia or, according to the growth of crime, we can assume an increase in economic deprivation or growth of social inequalities or the unwillingness of investors in Croatia. In this regard, it would be particularly important to have a constant and uniform quality of published or provided information, and better yet that we can monitor these data in real time, particularly data on the consumption of the public authority. Having real-time data means, in our understanding, having the possibility of preventive and corrective, but also timely action on political, social, economic, climate, financial and other processes, rather than being just a corrective community action when it is too late, as in the case of example. that eviction from Croatia. With regard to the proactive publication of information, the most important thing in this report concerns us is that a large part of the public authority does not regularly publish the outcome of tendering procedures for public calls for employment or for the allocation of financial resources, the list of donor users and sponsorships with the amount allocated, which is important, for example. the choice, information on formal working bodies, and e.g. the conclusions of the official meetings of the public bodies, etc. As a result, we could ask the Commissioner to continue to conduct too little specialised education for the head of the body and management officials on the one hand, and it was also today's speech on whether enough of our fellow citizens know how to use the Institute of Law on the right to access information. And yet further and there was talk here that penalties or criminal sanctions for those failures were too low or too low. The Green-Left bloc's club also wants to highlight some of its own recommendations to strengthen the application of constitutional right to access information. Our recommendations go beyond the existing law with the belief that the Law on the right to access information needs to be improved in order to benefit more as a political community than information generated by nearly 6,000 public authorities. To this end, we are in favour of the following adjustments, some of which are consistent with those proposed by the Commissioner himself. First, to establish the duration of consultation with the public interested from the existing legal formulation in general for at least 30 days to at least 30 days in order not to continue the trend of shortening the period of implementation of the consultation. On average, it is 18.84 days in 2019, compared to 24,77 days in 2018. Secondly, once again return more penalties, increase, simplify their pronunciation for leaders and public authorities, especially in the case of the most prominent violations of the law, such as the silence of the administration. Obviously, it is necessary to make it difficult to process access to information and other illegal practices of public authorities such as illegal calls for protection of personal data, business or professional secrecy, we know very well when one and other excuses are used, abuse of the right to access information, inadequately proactive disclosure of information, e.g. or not conducting public consultations. Thirdly, we agree, and in particular point out that strengthening the role of information officers in public authorities and ensuring the application of the protection of these same commissioners, including possible special working status of information officers, is to finally enter into the Commissioner's report and the recommendations for continuing work. In this regard, we are also in favour of increased financing of the activities of the Office itself of Information Commissioners and of increased mobilization of users of information of various kinds. In order to extend, more extensive and deeper application of the Law on the right to access information, it is important that too few inspectors in the Office of Commissioners are increasing because, in our court, this really interferes with the effective application of the law. And fourthly, we consider it particularly important to find a model to encourage domestic and internationally larger relevant IT experts to develop applications that could put public authorities data into a useful function at all. We already have experience in Croatia. Finally, we point out that raising the level of knowledge and awareness of the right to access information and re-use of information among information officers, academic community, associations, media, citizens, but also the leaders of the public authority are not only the permanent tasks of the commissioners, as stated in his report but also the ultimate political objective of every civil society entity, including political parties. Therefore, indeed, all members of the Green-Left bloc Club will make an effort to contribute to the achievement of that objective, as the right to access information is protected by the Constitution, which deserves special attention in the modernisation of society, digitalisation of public administration and overcoming the country's partytocracies for the private interests of the atavism that we as citizens are exposed from day to day. As active or passive users of public authorities information, and in particular as members of the highest representative body, we are also responsible for acting in favour of improvement in the public interest and in the name of the values for which we have become members of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38003	Thank you very much. Mrs. Boric, I apologize for the sounds in the back, I mean completely unintentional. You didn't even hear them, did you? Okay, you didn't even hear. ... I beg your pardon? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] People send things. Mr. Damir Habian will now speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38004	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Piculjan with a co-worker, state secretary, co-workers and fellow MPs. Here is a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2019. I would also like to point out that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this report and I am also using this opportunity to commend this report in a substantive sense, especially as regards the transparency of data as well as in the section relating to recommendations and proposals made by public authorities. The right to access information as we have already had the opportunity to hear here is the Constitution guaranteeing the right prescribed by the provision of Article. The 38th century 4th century. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which guarantees the right to access information owned by public authorities. That constitutional right shall include, on the one hand, the right of the user, therefore, any domestic, foreign, natural and legal person to seek and obtain information as well as the obligation of the public authority to provide access to the requested information. The constitutional right to access information can be seen through four features, firstly as the right which is a separate human right, as I have stated in the 2010 amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. that right has become an explicit constitutional law. Second, the law in question belongs to each person without discrimination, and this is clearly worked out through the provisions of the existing Law on the right to access information. Third, it is important to point out that there are no restrictions on the nature of the information required and, ultimately, as the fourth characteristic of that right, is that there is no obligation for the user to state when seeking information the reason for asking for information. If we combine the basic data for 2017 and '18. and now for this reference 2019. which are the basic subject of this report, we see how the number of debtors who are required under the Law on the right to access information varies from year to year, which is understandable in view of the permanent changes related to the establishment, termination, accession or any other status changes of the public authorities. Secondly, it is apparent that we are comparing data on the number of public authorities, i.e. those who are obliged to appoint an information officer, as the number of debtors who have not acted in accordance with Article. 13. The law on the right to access information falls by 726 as many as 2017, for example. at 458 as many as 2019. Therefore, despite the downfall of the number of non-legislators, almost 8% of the public authorities still do not supply information about the information officer or we can conclude from this that they do not have a persistent information service. The existing law on non-delivery holders does not impose sanctions on the information officer, and perhaps a new legislative proposal should also consider imposing sanctions on such debtors or public authorities. In view of the above, I agree with the Commissioner's conclusion that raising the level of knowledge and awareness of the right to access information and re-use of information among information officers, associations and citizens, but in particular here he would stress to the leaders of public authorities, permanent tasks of the Commissioner. The report shows that they are during 2019. A number of educational activities have been carried out precisely in order to train information officers and to perfect their work and to familiarise their obligations with the prescribed positive rules of the Republic of Croatia. During 2019. The first annual consultation of the Information Officers has also been carried out, with particular emphasis on the need to strengthen the institutional framework in future amendments to the legislative framework or to optimise the conditions for the smooth operation of the Information Officers in order to strengthen its independence, I suppose, in relation to the head of the public authorities. In this context, it is necessary to point out the recommendation of the Commissioner, which highlights the provision of permanent support to the Head of the Public Government in the effective exercise of the right to access information. In other words, although it is in accordance with the Law on the right to access information, the Information Officer is, in fact, a formally-legal person responsible for the application of this law, the fact that the unquestionable role of the Head of the Public Government as the key persons on whom the transparency and openness of the body depends and in the area of access to information. What should also be pointed out is the fact that the production of this report is based precisely on data collected through the annual reports of the public authorities, which are delivered to the Commissioner. However, the report shows that almost 14% of public authorities have failed to fulfil their legal obligation or have not submitted an annual report to the Commissioner. The Commissioner states that the number of public authorities that failed to fulfil the legal obligation is lower than the previous year, but the fact remains that there are still a large number of taxpayers, namely 823 who bypass positive regulations. If we compare data from earlier years and here there is a steady increase in the number of public authorities providing the reports in question. However, I would like to point out that if we compare the data for 2018. We see that, for example, they repeat the same unit of local self-government or municipalities that do not comply with their performance with the positive regulations. The report also shows a constant decline in the number of applications received, for example in 2013. either 24.330 in these reference 2019, 17,426 requests were received. As a reason for the decline in the number of requests received, the Commissioner cites the increasing level of understanding of the body on what the request for access to information represents and how to distinguish it from other queries and requests submitted. Namely, the right to access information in democratic countries is one of the preconditions for transparency of the responsibility of the government. According to the report by the Commissioners for 2019, and in the context of a proactive publication of the information, it is evident that 737 public authorities and almost 13% of the total number of debtors do not have their own website or publish information on the sub-pages of the other body, which is precisely what the Commissioner and the Commissioner has made possible. In that part, a certain positive shift has been observed, but still the proportion of public authorities which do not fulfil their obligation under the provision of Article 10 of the Law is quite high. When we talk about requests for access to information in the report, it is said that only 37% of the public authorities received a total of 17.426 requests from almost 6,000 of them. As in previous years, Croatia's waters, the City of Zagreb, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which was still called at the time, the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest, are being singled out. Therefore, the largest number of requests continue to apply to state administration bodies and companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, while the smaller number except the City of Zagreb refers to units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, we might actually ask ourselves why and what is the reason that citizens do not refer their demands to bodies that are so close to them, therefore to units of local and regional self-government because they are just listed units to citizens, which are the most common users of the right in question and should meet their own purpose as providers of accurate, timely and true information. Finally, I would also refer to one of the many recommendations and proposals presented by the Commissioner in his report, which concerns the proposal for direct sanctioning of the public authority body and the responsible person, or the head who is therefore working in it, in order not to comply with the obligations or provisions of the Law on the right to access information. In fact, the Commissioner also made it very clear in his opening address and unequivocally pointed out that one of the obstacles to the effective exercise of the right to access information is an existing sanctioning system based solely on the application of the law of violation. In this context, the Commissioner proposes that the sanctioning system be much more effective in allowing the amendments to the existing law to give direct administrative measures to the authorities and responsible persons of those bodies that do not therefore enforce the necessary solutions of the Commissioner. I think we can pull a parallel here, for example, with the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, or for example. The Agency for the Protection of Competition, which has the power to impose fines directly or under the earlier law of administrative criminal measures. Here, finally again, I commend the Commissioner's report and the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38005	Thank you, Mr. Habian. Now it is the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement whose position will be represented by Mr Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38006	Dear Mr. Chairman, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues, may I begin by telling you an anecdote that speaks beautifully of the right to access information. By accident or intentionally in his novel Guide through the hitchhiker galaxy wrote by Douglas Adams. The story begins like this one moment above ground, above the planet appears a huge spaceship, it's an evil interplanetary force called Vogons, they've come to tear down the entire planet to create a galactic highway. Of course, the Earthlings are rebelling don't please don't tear down our planet, but they say forgive me for the country's removal information has been publicly available to you for years. Where do the poor people ask? It's reported on an ad board on a planet that's only 12 light-years away from you Earthmen, and the Earthers say but we don't have the technology to go to that planet, and they say here. In a similar way, I felt little when I looked at the Commissioner’s pages, or all that service information about working time. Here's Friday, 11 o'clock, the office doesn't work with the parties, working hours for general information on the right to access information can be obtained by phone Monday and Thursday from 13 to 15. Officially, the time is from Monday to Friday from 8 to 16, but here we are Friday at 11 p.m. Let's look at this report, however, that's quite extensive, both in the shortened part and in that integral part. And with that interesting data, here's a respected colleague of the Habian, he was talking about it, so we have six units that didn't deliver the report for 2019, so let's get to know them. The town of Popovača, the municipalities of Fericans, Karlobag, Kumrovec, Pozerje and Lovrec. In particular, the municipality of Karlobag, who, despite the inspection and the infringement warrant issued, has been pointed out because of the failure to carry out the report delivery measure for 2018, continues to ignore the legal obligation to submit the report. Well, let me introduce you to the municipality of Karlobag and the man who's in charge there. He's a member of the HDZ, he doesn't need to be named, it doesn't matter, and he obviously belongs to local sheriffs. Let's say from 2014, let's point out the problems we face when there is a need to start investigating suspicious corruption at local level. Several members of the municipality of Karlobag called the Commissioner for mobbing in the media, in 2014, and these people were targeted by the chief because they testified in the proceedings against him. Namely, the chief is charged with unlawful bargaining because his wife's companies, as known, have been able to get jobs on a promenade in Karlobag, which has damaged the city's budget by 367.531 kuna. In 2017, here is new information about a very active gentleman, yet the accused council of the Municipal Court in Gospić confirmed the indictment of the state attorney's office there in February, and in 2017 it was decided that the chief would be held accountable. Here we are in 2018, another battle by Mr. Mayor of the municipality who fought with the fire commander in that place, while the fire commander claims that he was the victim of the revenge of the head of the municipality since his brother led the municipality before the mentioned chief, and the wife once the municipal secretary reported him to USKOK for corruption in 2018. So all this is happening all the time, but the gentleman has been constantly ignoring calls for the second year, and there's even the threat of sanctions on giving information. That's the local sheriffs. And I'm going to ask from this position and Mr. Habian, I look forward to your violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, who is who changes the system, who is who changes the laws? You say here and I'll say it here at the end of my exposure, yes, we absolutely need to change the existing sanctioning system, we need to. Will one of these people change it? There's certainly a wish, of course, but without your 76 hands, it won't work. Mr. Habian, Your Honor, someone in your party systematically obstructs law enforcement, and that is a notorious fact, we cannot escape from it. I'm not saying it's you, not by name or last name, any of your MPs or MPs or coalition partners, but you're the ones who can change the law, at least until the next parliamentary election. Let's move on right now, there's this very, very, very interesting subject that we can go through. It came to my attention in the financial plan that for the purpose of promoting the right to access information in 2019. Only 141,000 kuna are reserved, and only 59.76% more than 84,000 kuna have been spent, when divided into 12 months 7,000 per month. I would like to know, 7,000 kunas to promote access to information sounds very little if we want to show the Croatian public once again that they have the absolute Constitution guaranteed access to information then we invest a little more money to inform them about it. Once again, I will repeat, and the report itself says, it is a worrying phenomenon for individual bodies to persistently and repeatedly prevent access to information and in cases where requests for access to information are required to be resolved, or if they do not even initiate an administrative dispute, they refuse to act on the orders of the Commissioner. I also agree with the 2020 priorities. in the report, it is a systematic incentive of citizens, associations, media, academic community and the private sector to participate in public consultation procedures. One of the most effective and most representative is, of course, the portal e- Consultation. Here we may be working on promoting the right to access information, I have not seen anywhere in the public in any media call it advertising or publishing whatever you want people to go to the portal e-Consultation, there you can also, as ordinary regiment or high-ranking experts or anything else involved in forming a law that will be passed in the future in the Croatian Parliament. And, of course, once again, sanctioning public authorities' bodies that don't implement commission decisions, it's an absolutely huge obstacle. The existing sanctioning system is based solely on the application of the Criminal Code, the system would be much more effective if it could prescribe the possibility of direct administrative measures or the expression of the same bodies and responsible bodies that do not execute the Commissioner's decisions or do not act on his orders. In any case, I will remind once again who wants to change the system must see at least 76 hands in the air in this House. We know who has it, so if we want to change our esteemed colleagues and colleagues by ruling, run them or start them by yourself. Who is this man who, in the Municipality of Karlobag, has been protected by someone who, for two years now, has been able to say freely dares all of us in the face? Ha is obviously someone's friend, obviously his party card is much more important than the truth his party is so keenly advocated for. We will repeat once again that, with what is said and in the report, we can all agree, the Media Act should be modernised, especially from the position of ensuring greater availability of information for journalists, a new and modern law that will regulate the issue of professional and business secrets and, of course, classified information, and we must take care of it. However, despite the fact that in this report, it is in itself an extraordinary and responsible document, we do not see any reason not to support it as a Department of the Homeland Movement, yet we must say that as a fact it points once again to what is notorous truth, we are not all equal both before the law and in accessing information. There is too wide a number of bodies that have to allow access to 5,808, and believe me, some small fishing societies, there may even be some homes of health or some small, small, small associations that have certain public powers, have no websites, so we put them in a lot of trouble, they simply cannot or do not know how to monitor their level of legal responsibilities. Well, thank you very much. I say once again the report is excellently drawn up, but it's also a magnificent building, which is unfortunately on rotten roots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38007	Thank you, too, but we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague was injured by an officer. 232. The Rules of Procedure are not talking about the subject on the agenda, but also the 238th century 1st indent 1. Just in conclusion, you're telling your colleague Dretar that you should start by coming and going from yourself and sticking to this Rules of Procedure, not breaking the basic rules that apply to this House and talking about everything. This isn't the first time, just what's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38009	Thank you. All right, I think Mr. Dretar mostly stuck to the Rules of Procedure except in some parts, and that happens often, and I don't normally give any warning about it. If most, the vast majority of the debate is still in line with the agenda point because if you would... Well, then he'd have to give warnings too often and otherwise I don't give a little warning, no. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think that, you said what you thought, we can move on, don't you agree, you agree, Mr. Dretar, too? Mr. Dretar, do you agree? ... Yeah, you weren't listening to me because you... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yeah, well, me too... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It tortures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the name of the government, Mr. Pichuljan will... Mr. Juro Martinovic, excuse me. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38010	Honorable MPs and MPs. So, on behalf of the Government, I must say that the Government is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to support this report and accept it because I believe that it is complete, that it is quality and that it has enough information for you as representatives to have all the information needed to achieve your influence on this very important democratic standard in all democratic societies. I have only one thing to say since I've been offered some discussions that I would say, quality, well-intentioned and going in the right direction. I must say that the relevant research into the legislative frameworks in EU countries is this, you know, law is one of the most qualitative laws in the EU, but nevertheless, it is important for me to say this because of the last discussion of a respected representative, that the Ministry of Justice and Administration is more than 2 months ago. set up a task force to actually implement an EU directive as well as to correct the legislative framework that regulates this matter. The Working Group has held 3 meetings already and next week we will have almost a draft text of the law amending and supplementing this relevant legal document, you will have at public consultation, we expect all of us to participate, and trust us that this Ministry of Justice is also very important to fix this legislative framework, and I can tell you on the working group that these very ideas that you are having a problem with but which the Commissioner for Information has problems with. Here, I hope before the summer break we have a improved new quality law on the right to access information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38011	Martinovic, stay because you have replicas. Mr. Bull, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38012	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, the problem is privileged information that should be available to everyone. We have an example of concessions, di County and local authorities on maritime good assign only to themselves and such information is carried out, for example, in Dalmatia, published if it is an obligation to be in some kind of media, in Slavonia or in Istria. So I still have this problem, and the key problem is for us Assembly representatives of the public authority late with answers, I'm not talking to parliamentary deputies about citizens and the government has an interest in answering the questions of the parliamentary deputies, I've been waiting a year for certain answers on the matter of the Dalmatinka workers who have been damaged, for a year I haven't received an answer. So the government of A. Plenkovic and yours doesn't show any interest in rights, solving that right to information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38013	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38014	Dear Representative Bulj, therefore, democracy is a form, democracy is a standard, the rule of law is something that regulates everything and those standards. So the law on access to information has its own verticals, so after we allow through the portal, through the web pages of all ministries, through the web pages of all public institutions that are bonds under this law, after we fail to meet one of our wishes, the expectations of the gunmen that are sent to the enquiries, you have a Commissioner. After the commissioners, there comes an administrative trial that controls the legality of the work of the state administration, and therefore we are the bonds of all. The rule of law obliges everything and these democratic standards are naturally placed within the framework of the rule of law More than that, [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] So dissatisfaction can be, but it's our goal for all of us to fix this thing. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38015	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. He's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38016	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238, because I asked for a clear answer, which is why they don't respond and give no information to the council's representatives. Whether it's a shipbuilding, whether it's a public procurement, whether it's a competition, whether it's a labour rights, we wait sometimes a year instead of 30 days. So you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, you and your government, A. Plenkovic the Government. The same was true of the referendum initiatives where I and my colleagues sought invalid signatures, we never received them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38017	Thank you, thank you very much. Look, you gave the line, Mr. Secretary of State answered your line the way he answered you, and then you gave your injury to the Rules of Procedure and you had your replica again. That's why you get a warning. And you're raising the Rules of Procedure. I repeat once again, the Rules of Procedure are the law. Yes, he has certain characteristics and we treat him, I say we treat him like one warning, another warning, so we can, so we calculate etc. And we keep breaking that law. Let's not break the law. He's the law and that organic law. - Mrs. Crescent. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38018	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, for one part of what I was going to ask you, you answered, there is a reminder that July 21st is an obligation to bring this directive into line with the EU, and then here we all hope that it will really be settled before summer. You will likely include all those remarks made by the Commissioner in this Report for 2019, we will probably get a report for 2020, not in 2022, but probably this year, and there will be some recommendations, and certainly we would all like to include proposals on the concrete punishment of those responsible in all bodies of the state administration, units of local self-government, and therefore concrete sanctioning, and not only the Criminal Law. Also, my first replica was what my colleague Bulj said, not answering the questions of MPs, so I hope that in the new law, that is, the additions of the law, and that question will be settled because It's really a shame to wait [[Intruder: Thank you.]] a few months to respond to some [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38019	Here's the answer, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38020	I'm glad we think alike. I said that the task force is working, for, therefore, the draft law is settled, next week we end it, will go to public consultation, all of you will have the opportunity, so all the interested actors on the social scene will have the opportunity to make their remarks and initiatives that we will consider before we refer to the parliamentary procedure, taking into account, but I said, everything you have problems with today and on the working table of the working group in which very professional people from the university are sitting, so from the ministry, of course, employers, all interested actors are there, giving their contribution. Here, so I don't think we're gonna be late, I've got a little bit, I'm running this task force, I'm afraid, since the potential break that's going to take place in the session of the local elections, but I'm convinced, that's bound by Brussels, too, so we're changing this law because of the directive, but it's bound by Brussels. We're changing a lot wider in these directions that we talked about today. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38021	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38022	Thank you, Chairman. So given the information and documentation the government has denied, not only to the Croatian public, but to refuse to deliver to the Commission and other competent state bodies, I am actually appalled with your invitation to adopt this Report. Also, you're talking about that this is one of the best-quality laws, that it may even be, but that it's so high-quality, you wouldn't go into its amendment, and even if it was a quality law, it's not a quality of its implementation, and here's what I'm going to call the government, as a parliamentary representative, to do, so I'm going to call on it to raise the percentage of respect for its own obligations to the proactive delivery of public information to the same degree, to the same percentage and level of the hypocrisis to meet its obligations so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38023	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38024	Well, well-respected MPs and co-workers. You know the legal procedures, so it is clear to you that there is no reaction without initiative in this case, no more instance without appeal, no reaction of administrative trial without the request of the interested party. Therefore, we are in a very regulated sphere, and your objection to the law, that I am unfairly praising it, I can only appreciate through the prism of your position in this House, I really cannot do otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38025	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much for now. The Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS is now up and will represent the views of this club, Mrs. GLAS. Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38026	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. The Commissioner for Information is an important preventive body in the anti-corruption system. Although most of our citizens are primarily aware of corruption through criminal proceedings, through prosecution and think that better, more effective, faster procedures will eradicate corruption from our system, such an understanding is simply wrong. The fight against corruption can only be successful if 99% of cases are prevented through prevention, and the key tool of this prevention is transparency. Therefore, public availability of public data, availability of data on the work of the public authority. And that's why I've already said through the replicas that I think the report is pretty dry. I must also point out that I believe that the current Commissioner for Public Information is almost invisible. It is not a person who actively promotes the role and importance of the institution, both in the anti-corruption system and in building democratic awareness, participation of citizens in the decision-making process. And indeed, the key question that we have to deal with, both in the debate on this report and in the discussions on future amendments to this law, is the question of how close we really are to citizens, what the right to access information is to use it properly, and how rightly this institute can be both fire and shield and sword. How it can contribute to the democratic control of the government and the participation of citizens in the formation of our common future. Our citizens very often, when they are dissatisfied, when they are revolutionized, when they resort to those anti-systemic actions, then they say most of their problems want to be resolved in referendums. What does the referendum solve? How can we shape a referendum issue, so that it really is a tool for the participation of citizens in the decision-making process? It's wrong. The right way and the right way is to increase citizens' involvement in the control of decisions taken at all levels right through the right to access information and precisely from this kind of consideration results in my basic remark, not only on the report submitted but also on the work of the Commissioner for Information in general. Namely, I do not think it is a task, therefore, that it is my principled position, that it is not the task of the report which the key anti-corruption bodies refer to the Croatian Parliament, just to look dryly at that issue which the law has already touched in one way or another, but I think that one of the most important parts of the report is that at least there is something to be said and that there is nothing in the law itself. And now I say again, the Commissioner for Information is one of the key bodies in the anti-corruption system in that preventive part of it. And my personal assessment, therefore not the club's position, is that our entire anti-corruption system has shrunk down or comes down to the story of three monkeys. In which all key anti-corruption bodies behave on the same system and on the same key, which I don't see, I don't hear, I don't talk. No one talks about that dead corner that hides the non-existent powers of any body, so everyone says it doesn't fall within my jurisdiction. At the same time, it does not propose to cover the relevant legislative changes, so we will all pretend that the law is wonderful, beautiful, we have procedures, we have procedures, there is some appeal, a decision by some body, but key problems remain unenlighted because the main issue, the main issue is not in any role of jurisdiction or authority. And I can't see by that system, I can't hear, and I don't speak that way, Mr. Pichulan, and so do you. So now I'm gonna ask you from this pay phone rhetorically. Isn't it easy, isn't it comfortable, is it comfortable, isn't it elegant to say that the problem and the inability of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest to come to those data on government work, on government affairs that were needed to end certain procedures, in no way falls within the reach of your powers and competences? It's not just a memorial, but it's not all your fault, Mr. Pichulan. Many heads of institutions hide behind insufficient powers, and by their silence they actually support a system in which various thieves, non-workers and hooligans are more easily held in power. Is it really too much to expect you to use your public word, your profession, your expertise, ultimately your integrity to state your position? Public attitude, so simple, so constitutional, so clear. And that position should be said by the Government, it is necessary to provide public data and public documentation without delay now and immediately and any delay, any refusal to provide information and documentation to the public and the competent authorities, showing that in the blurry water, blurry work is easier to hide. Of course, it is more pleasant not to wave and present such general and dry data on municipalities that have not transparently shown all their data. Of course it's much easier than publicly saying that the government's non-transparent hides much more serious crime at the very top of the state government. And speaking of transparency, I'm going to use the remaining time to say what we could put into the Law on the right to access information if we really want to talk about full transparency. Therefore, to introduce provisions that will allow for the full openness of the state budget and the budget of all units of local and regional self-government, as well as of all other public authorities and users financed by budgetary means or on the basis of the burdens imposed by specific laws. I also propose to introduce and tighten sanctions for the lack of access to information by introducing the possibility of deprived part of the funding from the state budget in the next budgetary period, as well as the possibility of launching the process of changing the responsible person, the head of the body which refused or did not publish all the necessary data. I also propose that we include in this law the obligation to develop a single information programme for all public authorities in which data on all payments and payments from public budgets are published in a readable format, with the introduction of the education of employees who will carry out these tasks, as well as the implementation of workshops and webiners to which we will show users of the database in a proper way of using the application. I also propose that we introduce a easier model of participation of citizens in decision-making on how to spend budgets. Therefore, to enable our citizens to make known about the agreement or opposition to the draft budget spending proposal, in particular when making decisions on specific projects, using modern information technologies which, in a simple and easily accessible way, allow a vote on a specific budget item. With citizens' statement not necessarily having a binding importance, but it can be highly advisory. I also propose to include in this law the obligation to establish a register of all contracts and business relations with the state, units of local and regional self-government and with all other state and public bodies. So, for decades, such a register has had some countries in our environment. Then, I suggest we also form a register of all donations, sponsorships and paid ads in the media by all public authorities. I would also suggest that we establish a register of lobbying activities. So, not the lobbyist register, it's their personal matter whether they have it or not, and the thing is that the state knows what lobbyist activities are carried out in public authorities, so that it controls those who have contacts with lobbyists. The inclusion of these very simple tools would significantly contribute to the level of transparency in the Republic of Croatia, so it would not be a mere flossula to be used, using ruling rather than really being a tool that helps prevent corruption at all levels of state, local, regional and other authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38027	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates and it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38028	Thank you very much. Here are the people who follow this, if there is a possibility, I am talking about the right to information, and most citizens have experience with it or through tendering for employment in local, regional, state institutions or in certain places, institutions or anywhere that it was, that this touch has brought them, and privileged, primarily privileged information is the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia and citizens know that. We have a problem that due to privileged information from public authorities there has been a major dispersion in Croatian society, there has been a demographic decline, there has been an impact on the decline in employment, i.e. to a decline in competitiveness, and that's why we're moving more and more. Information is privileged in the Republic of Croatia, quite clearly, even here, former Mayor Kerum now has a candidate, with HDZ, for example. in the coalition, in the county, he also publicly says that he is looking for public tenders, that they have been called for nothing to form political coalitions, so that in the Republic of Croatia it is quite normal. We have concessions that should be public information. Concession, for example. in the Golden War where exactly who will win this best, forgive me, the best, the most beautiful beach, so we have a desertion of maritime goods from Makarska, Kaštel, Trogir, all islands, so that we have this privileged information, not only have they affected the demographic decline in the Republic of Croatia, but this legislative body, this government, this Government of Andrej Plenkovic, respected state secretaries, did everything to cover up information, to be privileged information from public bodies, and there is a problem, I will clearly present it, for example. Here we are, when the People's Initiative decided, to collect signatures, then Lovro Kuščević and Andrej Plenkovic, are not our parliamentary representatives, has my colleagues from the club, have not given us the opportunity to see together the invalid 40,000 signatures. So you mock the people and the people know it. For employment, in public, in regional self-government, local self-government, companies, so you announce the competition, you allow what is competing in Dalmatia to be published in Slavonia in some kind of media, of course it's a bargain. So you made it possible to break the rules of procedure that the Vice-President of the Parliament mentioned earlier. Art. 142, Honorable State Secretary, Representative of the Government, Juro Martinović, after 7.8 months we wait, and art. 142. The Rules of Procedure of the HS must be answered within 30 days and you say that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic is working in the interest of the Croatian people and that we have the right to information. No matter how many bodies with public authority have you provided a monopoly? How many monopolys do they have in Croatia? Vehicle center, monopoly. Why? Because that's what corruption, clientism, is about, and that's why we're headed for, at the top of corruption. For privileged information. Your reports that you wrote, so we Parliamentarians can't, folks, get information. Instead of 30 days, we wait six months. I mentioned the workers of the Dalmatians and their rights as Minister of Finance. Then I waited eight months for an answer. Imagine what it's like for our citizens. Imagine what it's like for young people to compete for their jobs, for a job that's being called in local self-government, in regional self-government, what, I think, is fog. What you're saying, this is a farce. Well, it is known that the party card is the only information needed for employment. So it was in Krka National Park, so that's what Kerum said. So in the County of Split-Dalmatia Kerum says no public tender, it is.../incomprehensible/... for the headmasters, other jobs that are... It's a deal, stretches out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we're talking about information here this morning. You're talking about your report. Croatia functions as Slovenska 9. It's public procurement, it's tenders, it's public authorities. This is Croatia And if we don't change it, eh, Andrej Plenkovic [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They certainly won't because he encourages it. [[Mr. Bulj, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38029	Thank you very much. You have several replicas. There's only one thing I want, uh, to point out, is that it's not about Mr. Butt but about something he said, which I would just be referring to for a moment. This Rules of Procedure discusses the rights and duties and the violation of certain rules by representatives, not members of the Government. That's where I have my hands tied. The Rules of Procedure, as I told you, is made and voted by us, and we can change it in the future, but while it is so, I can only give you a reminder or some other representative or myself even, as I once did, but I cannot give any warning to a member of the Government. That's what it says in the Rules of Procedure. - Mrs. Crescent. Maria Selak Rasudiæ asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38030	Comrade Bulj, the citizens have authorized us to represent them naively thinking that this is closer to information than they are to them and we are in practice serving them as the Commissioner for Access to Information because they expect us to write about it all the time to find out about some questions and problems and the inaccessible information that bother them. In practice, however, the situation is reversed. We are the ones who are almost and most difficult to come up with the necessary information to answer our citizens' questions because they answer our parliamentary questions because of the silence of the administration, not only to be late but often never to arrive. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38031	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38032	So I wanted to point out that the Rules of Procedure who brought this Croatian Parliament is, says there in the work that the Government is responsible for the Parliament, the people have chosen, in the Parliament it is that the Croatian Government does not respect the article. 142. where it is required to respond to the 30-day parliamentary representative on the issue of representation. Six, seven, we've been waiting for a year, dear secretary of state. And you're here defending the government of A. Plenkovic who for a year you don't want to answer our questions. Those years, for very important questions. It was about concessions on maritime good, it was about labour rights, it was about public authorities, they don't want to give an answer to us, to the MPs. And let alone to our citizens who, especially young people, are the source of corruption, privileged information shared in Slovenia 9 and other clubs, whether public procurement, whether in certain jobs, is shared by clubs, and it is an octopus, state secretary. And it's a lie that you represent interest and information because if you represented, then you'd respect those who put you there, you don't respect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38033	Thank you. Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38034	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin and dear colleague Bulj. Please comment for the sake of the Croatian public, we have a DIP, we have information that went towards the DIP, are the signatures collected from the dead? Of the dead people in the previous presidential election? And the information came back that they did. And then when we asked how many, for which the candidates, who the dead in Croatia can resurrect, I'm only familiar with Jesus Christ, so I don't understand, and then they can sign the signatures for certain presidential candidates. So is this Monty Python or is this the Croatian state? And who will take more responsibility in this country? Where is that pilot of this Croatian plane who doesn't want to be in the fog but is running into the mountain and everyone's acting silly and most of all that pilot, as it sounds to me. Well, fellow Bull, please answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38036	If the dead were to sign the presidential campaign, they should have asked the presidential candidates were probably here and in the assembly some, sitting down, did they have the signatures of the dead, but it is generally known that many dead are voting on election day. They vote dead, there are more votes than residents, it's not just an example of S. Milosevic when he gets more than 100%. And that's the problem, the unsettled state. I asked, asked the question, to be told by the Ministry of Administration and the Justice, that's what you're familiar with, and you're, to say how many of the last 10 years our people have voted outside, who have the right to vote, what is, from which state. I didn't get an answer, nor did the ministry answer me. The Ministry doesn't answer me, no matter what you in the information office sent them a memo. They don't want to answer. Why? Are the dead voting? You can't win the election otherwise. The dead vote, you don't want to edit the voter lists. They're important to them. The deceased, unfortunately I have to talk to this guy, only for votes. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] And the dead use what's at the bottom. [[Mr. Troscott.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38037	Time, time. Mr. Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38038	Dear Mr. Bully, regarding the right to information, ever since the subject of the aircraft was quite current, I've asked a representative question of which it's been almost a few months. How do you comment that the government has never answered such a question, and I'm not important here, but our citizens who want to know about the planes themselves that the government simply doesn't answer such things? Here, question number one. And question number two, remember only during the parliamentary campaign that we fought for to declare a moratorium on agricultural land, that foreigners don't buy us, and here we are if we hadn't fought, that right of information, our farmers might be in French hands today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38039	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38040	In the first act, of course, when the MP is being violated by the Prime Minister, we must know that the citizens need to know, we MPs, the Government doesn't want us to comply with the Rules of Procedure, with the law, the Honorable Vice President, not to answer us within 30 days, but to wait 6 months, a year and the Government... It's the government's responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's embarrassing, Secretary of State Juro Martinovic, you who celebrate this government that you and A. Plenkovic will do something new. What are you gonna do? Clientism, in corruption we are first and clientelism, first. We only favor foreign investors for that. Well, planes are very important, but it's a secret, it's not a secret, it's just that who knows what it is, what it's doing, what it's doing. That's what it means, the information you're looking for as MPs, they're blocking what they're doing to our citizens, which is why we have a major demographic downturn, the emigration of our people. That's the key question. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38041	Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38042	Mr. Bull, I really don't understand why you're complaining, what are you asking the government to answer you in 30 days? Well, from what I heard yesterday, here's a pity you didn't get a chance to take part in the agricultural debate, but we've learned that those agriculture strategies from 2020 to 2030 will start writing next year. Retrograde will write the agriculture strategy and you'll be looking for an answer within 30 days. At this rate, we have no hurry, you get an answer in a year, two days, be patient, exercise patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38043	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38044	They'd say to me in my neighborhood, "Suffered, saved." But there isn't when the people wait, there isn't when the people wait for the bogeyman to obey the law. To respect the Rules of Procedure, not to express themselves, and to prohibit me from talking about agriculture, where incentives give and benefit and where all farmers do not have the right to information equally than to have privileged information. And that's why we have the biggest incentives, never bigger than we've ever had in Croatia, never bigger. And we never again imported agricultural products and food, 3 billion euros, and our villages are empty. There's no more "Passy, Saved," folks, that's over because there won't be any people. 2/3 of Croatia is empty. From Krka to Neretva, to your Metkovic, no residents, no salaries, 100,000 people since you founded the county, 100,000 people have gone. Well, all the occupiers together didn't move so many people out. And modern Croatia, for which we have died and bled, you have destroyed it, destroyed it with this demagogue, these false reports, which are lies, fraud.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38045	Time. Mr. Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38046	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Bulj, I suppose the right to access the country's information should make it more transparent. But I'm not sure how transparent Croatia is as a state. I'd like to rely on half the legal solution we had yesterday in the Agriculture Act. Therefore, it remains in Croatia 90% of agricultural areas that have not been processed. This people are permanently blindfolded and there is the impression that something is done to a number of legislative legislations that change very, much more often than diapers change a child.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38047	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38048	Yes, that's why we have 700 thousand unprocessed hectares of agricultural land, which is why we only have 0.5% of the watered agricultural areas because people have no information, they give incentives to those, I say picturesquely often, for example. In agriculture, incentives are given to people to produce milk or to grow cows who do not know how many suck cows there are, they do not know how many cows there are, mainly in karst pastures, because they are privileged information, and in the case of tendering for employment, in public procurement, what is happening in our county, Split-Dalmatia or in cities, are published regularly in Slavonic press, in, I don't know, Istrian or vice versa. And that's why they destroyed it, it's corruption that triggers the right of privileged information, the corruption that stems from a demographic decline in human emigration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38049	And in the end, ma'am. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38050	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, as someone who has spent his entire working life in the central authorities of the state administration, I know how an answer to parliamentary questions works. It's priority jobs, it's straight up answering, counseling questions and press questions, but you don't get answers to the parliamentary question because they want to hide it, they want to put it under the carpet, their teeth rot from your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38051	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38052	You know why I made this point? Because the Croatian government is responding to us, I know it, to our parliamentary representatives. For me, here's one injury to the Rules of Procedure, another injury to me, third injury, and two days of banning me from speaking. And the Croatian government, which has the responsibility to answer to the parliamentary representatives, is our obligation, which is why the people are chosen, they do not give us information in time. They don't want to answer our questions. The departments, the bodies that are due. What, what kind of message is that to the people? Which will make this citizen ordinary, which will be the young man who wants to compete for a particular job within local, regional self-government or state institutions. He can't do anything. He's got a party card. All that matters to you is that they have a party card, gentlemen. But that can't be a criterion. For such Croatia did not die and fight. Croatia must be transparent for all our citizens and for the development and survival of people in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38053	Thank you. We're moving on with individual debates, Mrs. President. Maria Selak Rasdic is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38054	My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. On this subject today I'm going to talk about three problems. The first problem is the proactive publication of information, especially those kept in electronic records. In fact, the Commissioner for Information initially has the authority of the second-degree appeal authority in cases where public authorities unduly deny the provision of some information, but it is crucial to issue a proactive public publication, so that the authorities regularly publish information at their disposal and without the request of a citizen. The key problem is the perception of the proactive nature of publishing information, for example, that's what we have in the MUP's violent calendar, one of the better examples of how state institutions should proactively publish information. However, if we really want to get some concrete information, see the statistics of family violence over a week or month, or see how much of this violence was in a particular county, so that, for example, we can now react to a dramatic potential increase in violence in Sisak-Moslavina County because of the conditions in which people are presently located, then there is nothing. And we're not even expected to get an answer because, like, the information is publicly available, so you have a calendar of violence. The problem is the perception of access to information that is sometimes worse than when you have no information. Because at least you can fight it loud and clear, this is how you are expected to remain silent because institutions have an excuse not to react. I cannot in any way obtain the information needed to, and publicly articulate, the problem of domestic violence, but they cough. And coughing here can be directly counted in people's lives, not just in some procedural matter of whether I've satisfied my curiosity in time. The growing problems in practice are also, and official records that state bodies lead in electronic form. In fact, very often when searching for data from such records, bodies refuse to have data in, beware, materialized form, or not on paper, and now we have a paradoxical situation that we have an increasing number of electronic records, but when we need some more concrete data or even simpler analysis from them, we can't get that data because it doesn't exist on paper. So much for digitisation and electronicization that it has brought us in terms of the right to access information. To mention, I'm getting data from the M.O.P. faxed. The second is the problem of classified information classified in accordance with the Privacy Act. Croatia is a country that unfortunately continues to cultivate a culture of secrecy. The problem is not only in the Law on the right to access information but also in other laws, such as the laws on the confidentiality of information. When it comes to the so-called. Classified data, i.e. The data marked by one of the designations of secrecy and their availability, we are still at the level of the small totalitarian province. Namely, we only have time limits for the classification of data on paper. Although any body that identifies some information in secret should carry out a regular periodical evaluation of whether there is still a need for a code of secrecy, almost no one does so, and then, instead of ending the period of the legal deadlines of secrecy, they continue to exist forever. Unlike us, modern democracies have different rules. They have strict deadlines for the secrecy of the data and if there is no evaluation of secrecy, all secret documents, imagine, become public when legal deadlines pass. So we can read in the media that the U.S. published some information that was secret, and even the Vatican periodically publishes such documents from its archives. In this respect, the Law on the right to access information has been completely missed from the aspect of dealing with classified information. In the law, it becomes ridiculous provisions in the disclosure of classified information that must always require the opinion of the Office of the National Security Council, regardless of the position of the owner of the classified information which made it secret. Therefore, it is not the purpose of such legal provisions to consider the possibility of providing classified information to users, but rather the aim of secret services to obtain information on who is the seeker of classified information. Doesn't that tell you enough about where we live? And the third problem is the insufficient and weak powers of the institution of the information commissioners, which they make unnecessary. The Commissioner should be empowered to exercise his decisions by appeal and authority to impose strict administrative fines on responsible persons in bodies of public authority who do not comply with his orders and stronger inspection powers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38055	Thank you. You have a series of replicas. The first replica was requested by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38056	Thank you very much. My colleagues, it is in the Croatian state that information behaves that those who should be secret, become public, and those who should be public and transparent, who are of benefit to the citizens, are secret. In employment, this one, that one, you need a party card and then they're secrets, and the important things, for example, I will never forget, and it is also a day today, such a relationship, a very important documentation in the Office of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, from the Homeland War and came Stipe Mesic to the head of the country and cleared all those doors and let journalists record documentation from the Homeland War, e, from the Homeland War. So this is just one example, and what's public, which should be transparent, public tender, employment, public procurement, it's secret and then it's brought to clubs in Slovenia 9 di are all, from the judiciary, from of all bodies in the Republic of Croatia [[Intruder: Thank you.]] All this is essentially the information they're dealing inside. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Yourself. [[/Intruder: Answer. Here you go.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38057	I'll agree with you, Comrade Bull. There's really no secret information. There are only information that some political parties are secret and some political parties are public. Also, secret classification deadlines with us only exist on paper. All other countries can publish data once the amount of time has passed, and thus make them public, because in order for people to experience at all some calm and contentment of justice, they must learn what has been and remains unresolved in history. This can never happen with us, only the National Security Council Office can find out who's asking questions and shouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38058	Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38059	Dear MPs, I wanted to ask you a question, however, you have come up with a topic within your debate that is even more important and interesting to me. According to the Privacy Policy, we have a classification of data in 4 categories, meaning limited, confidential, secret, and you said yourself that the revision of these classifications is not working, which is a big problem. Why is that a big problem? If an information system is accidentally classified as a secret financial cost to maintain such a system is multiplely higher than when you have that system classified as confidential, and the question is, should it be classified as secret or can be confidential or even limited. And after that, you can't have that data with them, you can't work, you can't give it to anyone, people don't have access to information, and in fact everything else is camouflaged together, and it stays unreachable to people who need that data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38060	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38061	I agree with you fellow Pavić, if we should always look for the National Security Office as an additional obstacle in a series, approval so that we could publish the information, and he made it secret himself, regardless of the deadlines, we are indeed in a paradoxical situation to ask whoever in the first row was not in the interest to publish something, again about our legal right to finally publish it. This is what makes us and brings us to a level of small totalitarian province and why we can't step up with democratic states, and even to this extent that those most imprisoned countries like the Vatican publish periodic information, and with us, who had a serious break-up with authoritarian totalitarian regimes, the wolf ate donkeys.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38062	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38063	Dear colleague Selak Rasdic. What are we going to talk about in the first place when the Commissioner for Information, a man who should be at the service of the citizens, is able to get information, this morning on my specific question avoids giving an answer whether or not he signed a decision on the appointment of Mr. Para, who is at the time when the function is appointed, it is not some past, Mr. Paro is today an ambassador and important in Croatian diplomacy, so it is named the opposite of the rules. And the Commissioner avoids answering that question, what can we expect from Croatian institutions at all, what can Croatian citizens expect and how can they even come with such institutions that should enable them to exercise their right, how can they expect any progress?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38064	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38065	The way the Commissioner's institution functions because of its powers makes this institution completely pointless and some kind of show-off body that is there to play transparency and democratisation of society and in practice means nothing to citizens. Because what happens to citizens? Once the bodies of the public authorities have rejected them. They're complaining to the Commissioner. In the appeal procedure, the Commissioner accepts the appeal, decides for the benefit of the citizens and in the decision of the public appeal, issuing the order to the citizen body to enable access to information. If the public authority decides to ignore the mandate of the Commissioner, under the Law on the right to access information, it considers that access to information has been denied. And then what can a citizen do? It may declare a new appeal for the silence of the administration and initiate a misdemeanor proceedings against the public authorities which have denied the information and ignored the Commissioner's order and then those infringements go into obsolescence and the information remains unreachable to the public. The story is already well-known.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38066	Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38067	Dear MPs, ma'am. Selak Rasdić, one question, so we had a chance a few weeks ago, even last week to get a report of the 2019 budget, which is a very important information, which is actually important news already. As you comment on such important information and important information, we are discussing here in the Croatian Parliament 2 years after the beginning because it is already 2021 and important laws such as HOK, let's say we discuss it by late morning hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38068	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38069	Of course, it is just a matter of debate of importance and hierarchy at all, the importance of information, this Assembly completely reversed and that is not an accident, the reason why it is pragmatic nature and he is that we could not have any substantial debates, those discussions that are of the greatest interest to citizens. We often see how upside-down things are, first we discuss some laws, and then we discuss reports concerning the implementation of these same laws as the case of the Island Law, instead of serving us as pledoies for discussion. We also put what is current in small hours, while reports a few years old, from which we can no longer learn, put into the public's focus, all to turn away from the right topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38070	Mr. Miletić. Please be quiet. Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38071	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin, distinguished, respected colleague Selak Rasudic. For the sake of the Croatian public, I once again ask the question, we had presidential elections, the DIP was asked whether dead people, dead citizens of the Republic of Croatia, signed for certain presidential candidates? The DIP said they did. A year has passed, we are looking for information for which presidential candidates, in what proportion, in which number are the signatures collected from the dead citizens of the Republic of Croatia? For a year, the DORH and the police do not want to resolve this situation, I ask this question to the entire Croatian public, how is it possible to live in a country where dead people sign for some presidential candidates, how is it possible and what should be done by you, counterpart Selak Rasdic, that this will be dealt with urgently?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38072	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38073	counterpart Miletic, will turn out to be the only democratically active educated and engaged citizens, dead citizens. I suppose that one day when the electronic vote comes, if it ever comes to our democratic Croatia, they will be the most electronically written, especially those born in, say, 1900 or so. It seems to me that soon the dead will sing, too, what else can they say? How can we even speak to Croatian citizens from this most important pay phone in the country when we may be speaking to those amongst us who have activated the dead to sit within this same pay phone that will later document democracy and human rights? If the dead won't sing anymore, I hope they sing at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38074	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Nicole Grmoy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38075	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. Mr Piculjan, thank you for a comprehensive report full of statistics that can draw attention from the true purpose of the law and from the law of the designated responsibility of the Commissioner, which includes, among other things, the exercise of inspection oversight of the law and the submission of indictments, the issuing of an infringement order for the infringements found. The penalties for individuals are up to 50,000 kn, which is a solid mechanism for law enforcement. I cannot agree with the statement in the report's proposal that individual fines, have no advantage over collective monetary penalties by the public authority and that I quote "the monetary penalty of the public authority could be more effective". It is not clear on why you have come to such a conclusion, as I quote "the heads of the body are being changed and the offence of a person no longer in office loses the purpose of sanctioning". On the contrary, Mr. Piculjan, the responsible person will think twice before breaking the law if he knows that the predecessor was also personally fined when he personally violated the law and vice versa, if the punishment of the persons responsible for breaking the law would be paid by the public authorities with taxpayers' money, then only heaven would be the limit to responsible persons in violation of the law while penalties are paid by citizens for their unconscious conduct. The proposal from the report that citizens' money is being paid by responsible persons would be a good proposal for countries such as Denmark or Finland that are at the bottom of the European scale according to indicators of political corruption. But the same proposal sounds like a bad joke in countries like Croatia, which has been at the top of a corruption scale for 4 years. Since Prime Minister Plenkovic took full power, 40,000 people have moved out of Croatia annually. Most Croats leave Croatia for corruption, so it is mildly said, an unserious proposal for taxpayers to pay the fines of those responsible for breaking the law to such Croatia. Mr. Piculjan, imagine a little bit of how this proposal of yours sounds to citizens in this kind of Croatia, from your report, that the money of citizens pays the fines of those responsible for breaking the law, while the same citizens see responsible people hiding state money in clubs, garages, basements and party safes. There's no colleagues here, Bačić, and here he is, well, he's well aware of these practices, let's remember that black bag. The proposal that taxpayers pay the fines of responsible persons is in perfect accordance with the Parole "Adjudication to Convict and Others to Save", which is where members of various committees used to guard each other's backs, just as President Jandrokovic recently cried out at a party meeting that, as you know, along with the former president of the same party, was re-convicted because of the illegal acquisition of Croatian citizens' money. Mr. Piculjan, when taking office as president of the Working Body of the Anti-Corruption Council, I found a submission, a presentation by former President Jovanovic, who spoke to you in 2019 and informed you that Foreign Minister Grlic Radman refused to give the working body of the Parliament the travel order of the Ambassador's wife in Australia and refused to submit a report from the Chief Inspector of the Ministry of Christmas. Mr. Jovanovic asked for your help with the show, but I didn't find your answer. And from today's report, I can see that you haven't even managed the Foreign Ministry where you've been in a prominent position for years. If only in Denmark or Finland, today you would probably do the last working day in this position because of ignoring the working body of the Croatian Parliament, it means because of our parliament. But in Plenkovic's Croatia you are the perfect person for the role of Commissioner for Information. I'll vote against your report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38076	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238. Rules of Procedure. My friend Grmoy is making lies on me, and he knows it very well. The two of us have commented on this many times, and it is the same lie over and over again. But you can't expect anything from Mr. Bolt. In each presentation, he presents serious untruths and is slowly bordering it with pathological lying. And I got it. I ask him to stop doing this and return to one normal frame of polite, polite behavior. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] And don't insult people on a personal level. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38078	Mr. Bacic, thank you. Look, if you're referring to the truth, it doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. If you are calling that insult, I, in Art. In 238, he writes to belittle or insult the president or other MPs. Now, either I can give a warning to Mr. Bolt and you, because you've been replicating after all, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[Grmo's incursion: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] No, no, that's my call, or we can move on because we have more serious business to do. I'd move on. Ma'am. All right, all right, I also once gave myself a breach of the Rules of Procedure but you can't [[I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] - Mrs. Crescent. [[Grmoya raider: I can ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Maria Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38079	Art. 238, disdaining a respected colleague of the Grmoya. They carry out an unfounded meal on his account, and they are very easy to justify. A colleague of the Grmoy has repeatedly asked for his parliamentary immunity to be removed here so that he can finally be sued for all the lies he insists on making. Of course you didn't have the courage to do it, so much about the truth and so much about the lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38080	It's the same answer as before. Same answer as before. And now, Mrs. President. Marija Selak Rasudiæ, you have a replica No. No. You can't ask because it's not in the Rules of Procedure. [[I have the right as a representative.]] No such institution, no such institution [[Injury of the Rules of Procedure, do you understand what I'm looking for?]] Okay, and you got it. [[I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] - Here you go, Mrs. President. Selak Rasudic. Replica Finally Okay, you got it. [[Grmoya Intruder: Searching...]] Here you go. No, I don't. [[So, can I...?]] - Mrs. Crescent. Marija Selak Rasudiæ has a replica, you can't respond to the injury of the Rules of Procedure So you said "give me," you already said that, didn't you? [[Bouting Grumo: So the breach of the Rules of Procedure goes before the replica, I've been looking for her, you're holding a misjudged session.]] Give me a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I gave it. - Here you go, Mrs. President. Maria Selak Rasudic. Well, it says, I've been before, do you see a traffic light up there? But you've already spoken. Here you go. Here you go. If you'll do it again. You want another one? No, I don't. Mrs. You'll have your replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38081	Here's a colleague of Grmoy we're talking about the right to access information, and we're actually talking about something else, which is that we can also share the truth with the public. Therefore, I ask you, for an attack that persists when you talk about this subject, which is no coincidence that once again when you have not received the right to breach the Rules of Procedure here repeat all the reasons why they are unfounded, and you will remember that this is not the only time in which information is banned here in a relatively current case. Where everything that was tried with the Law on Archives was buried forever in some trenches and perhaps only Croatia, not neighbouring history.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38082	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38083	I'll answer, but I'll ask the vice president of the assembly to stop violating my representation rights. I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure that has precedence over the replicas of other MPs, and I would be asked to be allowed to harm the Rules of Procedure after this replica. Ma'am. Selak Rasudic, as far as what you've brought forth, I haven't made a single lie. I said that one party was sentenced along with her former president for illegal adoption of Croatian citizens' money. Comrade Bačić, that's true, that's true. I said you were involved and you were part of this affair, at least the media said so, that's true. I didn't charge you with one sentence and I said anything more than that, and in return, you responded with insults. So I didn't insult anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38084	Here's my colleague Bačić, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38085	Well, this is amazing. Well, I, uh, I had a violation of the Rules of Procedure before Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38086	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38087	If you are, you can say something about the violation of the Rules of Procedure on a colleague of Bačić, please welcome colleague Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38088	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure of HS, a colleague of Grumo, re-emerges in my account. So, my colleague Grumoja, I've told you many times and I'll tell you again even though I don't see any point in it anymore, so I wasn't any part of any affair because at the time I was the chief secretary of HDZ, I can teach you that, there's no incriminating time in the Fimi media affair. At least you should know that, and you persistently want to do me political harm repeating lies or lies, whatever you want to say. Well, when you repeat it every time, then I don't have another one. but to evaluate it [[Intruder: Thank you]] in a way... [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, colleague Bačić]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38089	Here's a colleague of the Grmoy, you're also looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38090	Dear President, since you have not participated in this debate, I apologize for turning to you, so you are not at all responsible, but I must warn you that Vice President Radin has denied me the right to be a representative for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and I will certainly address the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure for this because this is so far unseen in HS, and you should talk to the Vice President, so on how to conduct the session. And I won't answer anything that my colleague Bacic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38091	Thank you. All right, I'll check what it was about, and you, of course, have the right to address the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and then we'll see exactly what happened. Now we're gonna stop and we're gonna vote, so I'm asking you to take your place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38092	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38093	My colleague Bulj was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let me just get this straight before I explain, so we're gonna keep going like this. We have a vote, then we have a vote that will take place unusually than we have a secret vote to elect members of the HRT programme council. After that vote is completed, after you've all done the job, then we'll have a free speech in the break while the votes are counting. When we're done counting votes and free speeches, then we'll read the results, and then we'll continue this debate with the replica that my colleague Troscott has with his colleague Grumoja. Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38094	Thank you very much, President. I'd just like to say the same thing if, you weren't there, but Furio Radin, the vice president of the assembly, who also wouldn't let me, here's the worse one, is half an hour's worth of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I don't know what the reasons he didn't allow, and now it's pointless for me to give injure the Rules of Procedure after half an hour. Just make sure Furio Radin, vice president of the assembly, doesn't respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38095	Okay, we'll see, you have the right of course to object which you will refer to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Comrade Radin, here you go and you'll be obvious. I'd like to ask you now to bring this to an end, here's just this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38096	The 238th demeaning, demeaning of the presidency, the chairmanship of the presidency, as I chaired at the time of my colleagues, Grmoja and my colleagues. So, I gave the Rules of Procedure a break once, then I decided not to make any warnings. Mr. Grumoja has repeatedly asked me to take this one, to give him a warning, and finally he came out and asked to be given a warning, and I gave him a warning. So he's both got the word twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38097	All right, here's a colleague of the bush, come on, please. So, it's quite clear, I wasn't here so I can't have this arbitration, nor is it my intention, there are business mechanisms, and that's to contact the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, so please do it then. Here's my thanks for understanding. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38098	Thank you very much. Now we'll get back to the previous wheel. Comrade Grmoy, please stay here because we still have two replicas on you, the first to be respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott but I can't see him, he's losing his right to speak, and then the replica will be directed by the respected representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38099	Your Honor, here you have been in the local government and you know how it works there at the bar, and competitions and reporting to the city council, or according to the municipal council, according to the county assembly, we have now passed a new Law on local self-government where we have said that leaders are obliged to provide not data, but information. I tried to intervene with the amendment to change that notion because it's not the same, I don't want factory data, I want the original information on public procurement, about transactions that were from an account to an account, that we know what's going on. However, this has not been adopted and now that we are and you are getting this information that is prescribed by law, the question is when we will get it, with what distance and what quality it will be. What do laws that are useless mean to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38100	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38101	I agree with you, but we generally have a big problem, so remember that no travel orders have yet been delivered for the leadership of the state and HDZ in Finland. No one's responding. And now some politicians are boasting of it as the High Administrative Court and the administration of the courts is breaking the verdict. So they are destroying the verdicts because Plenkovic decided to deal with the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and to take power to decide by Article. It's law five. So here's the commissioner, so they don't give the Anti-Corruption Council of the MVEP a travel order from Australia where the ambassador's wife was deployed against the rules. The man exposed corruption, got him out of work, hasn't been returned yet, he's fighting signs and the institutions are at the station of those who are in power, who are covering up crime in the MVEP. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38102	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38103	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, few present in HS. I will use an individual debate to cite the last of the very concrete proposals that I think we should include in the Law on the right to access information, one fine day when we will talk about amendments and additions to this law. And a representative of the government, Mr. Martincevic, and the Commissioner for Information himself, gave us an indication that it would soon be so. Therefore, I believe it is necessary to establish a register of state property, but also property of counties, cities and municipalities in which information on how to use the property together with publicly published management plans of these properties, and also a register of other assets, together with a management plan for that other property. I am primarily referring to shares and profits from companies with data on the intentions of further business development. Therefore, public disclosure of such systematicised data on the state of ownership, on the state of ownership of individual properties, on how they are used, on whether the rent and rent were charged, as well as on specific intentions or use plans, and on how certain assets would be managed further would reduce the corruption that we are witnessing at all levels. I have not been able to read until the end of the news that has just been posted on the portals of an unfortunate event in one of our counties, I suppose it is linked to the revolt of our citizens on all corruption affairs that the competent state authorities simply cannot stand on their tails in any way, I cannot deal with them or solve them in any way. I would not like and wish both as a parliamentary representative and as an expert in every way possible to contribute to stopping the poor practice of taking over justice in its own hands, to get it back to the competent institutions, but also to institutions that will actually do their job, not to serve as a fig leaf or to pronounce mere paroles, and to keep the items in the drawer for years and years. We are all witnessing that property owned by a state or property owned by cities and municipalities has been illegally assigned to political powers and that for such actions these powers have not been punished until today. I don't need all the time left to discuss it, but I'm wondering if everything I've talked about today in the name of the club and in this free speech in terms of very, very concrete and precise solutions and proposals that need to be included in the law really and put into motions that will be referred to by the ruling, will it be included in the comments of the Commissioner for Information in the public debate process? Finally, I would like to know what percentage of the proposals and comments presented in the public debate will indeed be accepted in some final draft that will be sent to HS? Now that percentage will be the real picture and opportunity, the real proof of what state we've become now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38104	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38105	Honorable MPs. I think all those who advocate transparency who want to know how to manage public property, how to manage state property, with property of cities and municipalities that they will support this law and that it will be on your side, but I'm afraid that this law will not be voted in, at least not in the form in which you proposed it. For now, when you contact local self-government, when you contact for some data that is related to or for the work of the city, the municipalities or for the work of public enterprises, and the data is related to workers, everyone calls for the Personal Data Protection Act and GDPR, although it doesn't really make sense because we as councillors in the city, we as Parliamentarians, as councillors in the municipality, we should have that information to see how to manage this company, where money is spent, how money is spent, for which money is spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38106	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38107	Thank you. Well, your question is very well-pointed, and it best shows how often the pointless discussions we have in the House are. We should actually start talking but really talk about not keeping monologues on how to change the system, how to turn the system upside down or what I like to say how to redesign the state. GDPR can't be an excuse for non-delivery and not publishing public data. Also, the Commissioner for Information cannot be put in a position to decide on complaints, but we must set up a system in which public data will be available at hand, so it will already be somewhere on the air, and not that we must specifically look for them. What is devastating is the fact that technical information solutions are so available, I dare say even cheap, but there is no will to implement them until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38108	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38109	Thank you. My colleague Oreskovic, I think that in Croatia the biggest problem is responsibility, that there is no responsibility in the executive government, that there is no responsibility in these institutions that should also be dealt with by prevention, but also by punishing, sanctioning corruption, crime and here is the availability of information. And what is my question to you, do you feel that, as far as the information law itself is concerned, more and more responsible persons should be punished, not just the leaders of some bodies, and then the public money is paid and fines as one has avoided delivering certain information?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38110	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38111	Yes, I advocate stronger punishment, but also, I advocate that sanctions personally affect a responsible person, not that punishment is paid out of public budget funds. Also, dear counterpart Grmoja, I thank you for your good cooperation so far within the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy and for what I have been actually walking around all day and waving is a summary of the thesis for the preparation of the draft new Corruption Prevention Strategy, which actually touches the strong tools that we will give to the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest, the Commissioner for Information and a whole series of other public bodies. It should not be too wise to conclude that this side of the assembly and this government will not make any quality proposals and it is up to us in the opposition to find a way to co-operate on these issues as we have worked together on the protection of women's rights today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38112	Thank you very much. Here, you can stay right away, given that you will finally speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, so the esteemed representative Dalia Oreshković has a pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38113	I'll speak briefly and I'll say something about both this report and the others discussed in HS. We have touched a lot of issues today, and in fact, if someone were careful enough to analyze how much, not thesis, not the sentences, but the words were spoken at all, and if they really mattered to something from the report itself, we would come to a devastating conclusion. And indeed two possible variations here can be controversial. One is that the report is actually such that there is nothing to say about it and there is nothing to be said for it, or there is a problem with us MPs who have not given ourselves enough effort to find inspiration in this report about what will be discussed in HS. And I think if we don't change that approach, we won't get far. I also advocate that the competent authorities, here, in particular, the Commissioner for Information is one of the most important bodies in the preventive fight against corruption. So that we have a thematic session, although the Rules of Procedure do not consider us to be the parent resolution body in which we will call on the relevant stakeholders of society, for example, civil society associations, journalists, investigative journalists, to analyse what is already available from the media, and to see where the problem was right to access information so far. So there's no problem with what the report says. I repeat and repeat as many times as it takes, the problem is what is not in that report. And we not only have a situation where citizens cannot get the information that belongs to them, according to the Constitution, by law, we have a situation that bodies, that competent state independent control bodies cannot obtain the data and documentation they need to take procedures out of their jurisdiction. And also, we have this Parliament that is empty when it is to be discussed and discussed, we have a situation in which, in my opinion, one of the most important and key bodies, which is the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy is not considered by the existing system of rules in the Rules of Procedure or by a body that would need to say something about this. That's what we have to change. So I said, when we start talking about changes to the Rules of Procedure, let's remember all these specific situations and change the record. The state should be turned upside down in the sense that it is redesigned, that institutional powers are aligned with what an institution should be. That individual HS working bodies are indeed doing their normative role, not to serve as one paramount of the legislative process, because when we talk about EU Commission bodies, GRECO, after all, whoever you want, they will read the dry norm and say that there is an institute of consultation with the interested public. The fact that suggestions and comments are not respected, nothing. Well, there are parent committees within HS, although these committees hardly ever refer to any legislative initiative. They eventually get, individual laws to argue the day before the law is referred to the debate here at the plenary session and in most of these committees, with perhaps one or two exceptions, again, most have a ruling. So where is the debate, where is the dialogue, where is the search for better solutions, where ultimately there is the willingness of the ruling to accept any corrective amendment, except for what is truly triviality. So either we're going to change something or we're going to really change into these here, 3.5 years that we're left with until the end of the term, if there's no early elections, which I hope from the heart, or we're going to leave some sort of trail in the operation of this institution, or we're really going to have to face defeat ourselves if it stays the same as it has been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38114	Thank you very much. The next final on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta will be spoken by the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38115	Thank you, Vice President. Here, colleagues and colleagues, there's something more of us here now. I will briefly recapture what my colleagues who participated in the debate today spoke. Kola Miletic spoke of an important problem of signing the dead in the presidential campaign for the president's candidacy where the DIP found the dead to sign, but refused to give information on how many dead have signed and for whom. Who's he protecting? What candidates from the presidential election? Who's he protecting? Who are below the counter, as counterpart Miletic said, the days of signatures to be an actor? We have these local elections now, and we're going to have all kinds of actors, so-called. independent candidates or candidates of some political options that have a purpose for these large parties to do dirty work. Who were you in the presidential election? It's a very interesting subject. Col. Bulj also spoke about the right to access information, I raised the problem of the MVEP I asked the Commissioner if he might have signed the solution to Mr. Josku Pari in '96, and the man had a high school, was employed in diplomacy had no college and today is important in Croatian diplomacy? We need to shake things to the ground in diplomacy, in the judiciary, get rid of a lot of people. That's exactly what you need to do with fire and sword and diplomacy and justice. Because why? I have concrete evidence of corruption in the ICPE, a man has made them more anti-corruption council, he has testified, the Secretary General or Inspector Christmas of the Ministry has testified and admitted that the rules have been broken. To date, neither the government nor the DORH, nor the ministry wants to respond to the Anti-Corruption Council, nor to me as an agent. And what is the role of the commissioner? Not at all. He's set up to guard that status quo, none. Mr. Piculan, don't be nervous, so you can't interrupt me in the middle of my debate. If you have anything to say on behalf of the promoter, say it, but you should be at the service of Croatian citizens, not at the service of those who have appointed you. When you know it to yourself, then Croatian citizens will be able to get information. Yours was here to cry, yours was here today to raise a voice, I can't get information, they don't give me information, Croatian MPs change the law if the law isn't good enough. You didn't say any of that. You didn't say any of that. And ten cases have been brought to you here that people can't get information, at least ten cases. You know what would be honorable? That now in this speech of yours when you will go out on behalf of the promoters after me offer your resignation, you can offer your resignation if you cannot fulfill what has made you appointed HS to this post, not the Government of Andrej Plenkovic. We don't know who the dead are signing for, stealing money from our embassies in Australia and elsewhere, and you know it wasn't during the HDZ government, it was during the time Vesna Pusic was foreign minister, then it was stolen both in Washington and Canberra. And you know what's sad? That you protect this crime, that the HDZ government protects that crime, that former Minister Pejcinovic Buric, and now Grlic Radman protects that crime. That's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38116	The next club of MPs is finally the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38117	The Honorable Chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs. Here's a quick address, given that here today I've been listening to this debate, I've also listened to the Committee on Information, Media and Information, and there we've tried to draw attention to the problems that we've seen. Today we have heard more of these problems here and it would be good if you as a representative of the state government had done something in this regard to initiate a change in such regulation that would allow you to follow those phenomena that have not been reported to you. I have no doubt that the report is good, that it is quality-made, that all the reports are correct, everything you have done that you have done for the best, that you have respected legislation, that you have respected all the positive legal regulations and that the results have been as you have shown in your report. However, the question is, do such a report, do the results of such work satisfy the Croatian people, do they satisfy people in local politics, do they satisfy people in this House that are extremely important to us? If these results are displayed, and they're correct, they don't make any sense unless they have any effect after what we've done? Nothing. What are the penalties? Who paid them? Whose money? Penalties should be such that the local leader or the one who committed a violation in accordance with the law never comes to mind again that such an offence is committed and that he can never again report to be head of local self - government or in any other body. Why? Because he manages social money, manages social property, manages our assets. And if it's not transparent, if it's not visible, if we can't get that data and the leader isn't punished, what have we done? Nothing. Public procurement data are being covered up, public business data are being covered up, data on various bankruptcys are being covered up and then transferred from one company to another company. New companies are being opened to cover up what happened to the old company. There are many things you can determine and why procedures can be initiated to help local self-government, which will help this country function better. We've heard about the issue of state property management, these are serious issues. And on this point, we've been doing absolutely nothing for many years, but I think we've come to the point where I have to say "so far we can't" and we have to do something. It's up to you and us. We will make sure that we, as opposition advocates, launch new legislative initiatives, that they will be accepted, we do not know, but it is extremely important for us to be heard and it is clear that we are not blind, that we are not deaf and that we see that this is not good. And I'm asking you to move towards solving these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38118	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Commissioner for Information, Zoran Piculjan, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38119	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs and MPs. I'm going to try to briefly streamline this debate today and answer some of the things I think I need to answer. First, I would like to thank all who have praised the report and such is the good majority and so are those who pointed out its shortcomings but the lack of reports and I thank them, they will be useful in further work, as we learned lessons from every proposal that came from any side, so we will do this this year. This report, unlike some impressions that it's hiding something, this report absolutely has nothing to hide, it's exactly like that, it's written, it's not hiding anything. It points to what does not move with great fiction, the factography is presented in the report itself and in today's presentation I tried to point out exactly and in it it is also, proposals for solutions to improve the situation. They are not given by the ruling majority, they are given by no one but by the Office of Commissioners, the Commissioner for Information, giving them for the first time in such an integral act and several are worth pointing out. It's the same misunderstanding, it's sanctioning a responsible person. Yes, it is the Commissioner's proposal, it is no other than the Commissioner's and Commissioner's Office with the whole enforcement mechanism that is now missing in the Croatian legal system. What it is and it seems to me it should be pointed out. The same thing that should be pointed out, that the Commissioner and his office act exclusively under a legally regulated procedure, not officially, no... but according to a legally arranged procedure, and if someone thinks and has evidence that I am doing it as an information commissioner in any illegal way, let them say, let them show it, let them prove it, and I will be very happy to carry out all the conjecture, but they will bear the conjecture and the one who says it and there is no justification. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's to two, I forgot, two, in my first address I forgot about consulting with the public, a very important institute that you believe, and it's seen from our report, he started, we give special attention and we make a proposal for his promotion in this, and we point to his importance, both locally and at the state level, we point out the shortcomings that occur through public consultation and we do, it seems to me within the framework of institutions, the only one who is not consulted, by consulting the other institution. As for the representatives of Grumoia and his remarks, or his claims that nothing was done about it, and I don't know what I did about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, just the other way around, you know that very well. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, no one else to the Commissioner for Information has submitted a request to resolve your proposal and your proposal has been resolved only on the initiative, on my initiative, on the initiative of the Commissioners' Office and Commissioners' initiative, has been resolved in the way it is, a solution has been adopted on the rejection of the legal remedy, and unfortunately, you have not taken advantage of the rule of law and you have not complained to the Commissioner, you have been able to take a good look at the practice of Commissioners and Commissioners in that area and then you would see that, but besides, and you knew that in such a way you can do so, you did not take advantage of it. So what I should do to get the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to do what it is, they felt they didn't have to give it, the DORH acts as it feels it should, so the Commissioner acts in a way that is legally arranged, as it will, it can't be done otherwise, we can't jump out of the powers that this Croatian Parliament has given us, and that's the answer, it's the only truth in this case. Also related to the DIP mentioned here by the esteemed representative Miletic, we did not receive a complaint, but in 2015, such complaints were also resolved by the Commissioner regarding the DIP and the invalid ballots, the complaint in this case, there were no complaints, we were unable to resolve. And we didn't solve it because it would be different to exceed our powers. If an institution exists, then it should be used in a way that is used to legally adopt its position, what the Commissioner and his office gives him credibility is his legal resolution, the quality of his legal solutions. And I think that in any case we keep those standards, we don't lower them and we're controlled by the High Administrative Court, even when we think that the High Administrative Court has dropped the standards somewhere, changed the standards, we respect them and where there is a need, we again use the legal institutes of extraordinary review of the powers of the High Administrative Court in the Supreme Court, and that proposal will be accepted and we will again get new legal practice. It is visibility, it is also recognizability, one standardization of decisions that you can see on our website all the Commissioners' decisions and all the Commissioners' opinions, unlike almost all the administrative practices you have the most administrative practice in this area. We think it's very valuable, we don't think in any way, we don't hide anything, there's no procedure that hides, there's no review in an independent, objective, professional way of doing this which, but in a procedure that's so arranged. Here's why I'm really saddened that this debate and this kind of reaction, I don't think it's necessary at all. On the National Council, you now have the honour of leading as well as I think we work very well together and we are very good at opening up areas which, besides anti-corruption measures and a whole set of anti-corruption measures, is the one that implements the Commissioner's Office in the strategy, amongst the most important measures is the Commissioner's Office who took the responsibility and does so. I don't know what you're supposed to do anymore, I don't know how otherwise that should be satisfactory, I think it's only satisfying what's based on the law, so I hope you're looking for it too. As far as I'm concerned, and I think we'll know, this report wasn't meant to hide, and that's what I'm ending up with, it's been done to open. Now the debate on amendments to the law, we have offered a set of amendments, you have them on our website, a very broad set of amendments to the law based on a directive based on judicial practice based on system ineffectiveness. We have published it, we have given it to the Ministry of Justice and Administration, I think it is, we have discussed it with a number of stakeholders, with associations, with civil society, it is our work with civil society, with institutions, with employers, with all those who have various interests, and there you see various interests, but then you cross them, then you objectiveize them, show them to the public, and we think this is a good solution for the present time, and that this law and that we will ask you about this report, and when this law is in Parliament very soon, we will ask for the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament to go into the evaluation of the law on the right of access, to see its good and bad sides and to finally get one real law. You cannot resolve the right to access information if there is no synergy, on our part there is will, knowledge and what I would say is legally regulated conduct. Otherwise we won't because we don't know otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38120	Thank you very much, please remain a moment longer here we have two replicas. She is one of the respected representatives of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38121	Thank you very much. Your Honor, thank you for looking back on that debt you still owed me from this morning's replica. In fact, in the whole story, we can conclude that there are definitely needs to change the existing law, which will hopefully be within a few months as it is said that your recommendations and everything that we have pointed out will be respected. I'd just like to ask you about the funding, as far as I've seen in 2019 you've had 4 million 300 thousand kuna, of which you used 90% so 4266,000 is left, that's probably not used, and on the other hand you're saying that the funds you have are insufficient to implement everything your office should implement. Couldn't you somehow spend those resources on whether for a number of inspectors or for an additional education to the public, information officers, etc. And if you get there, did you have any more resources in 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38122	Your Honor, Commissioner Pichuljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38123	In short, we have similar funds in one and two years. We didn't use it in 2020. Not used for reasons that we all know well, you'll have it in this report, you'll also have a comparison in '19. And in the '20s, very soon we will submit to HS the next 15, 20 days a report that we hope will also be discussed relatively quickly so that we can really get somewhere, that we can compare the results and that we can see what is done. For this, we think that we are very splendor, that we spend rationally, that we don't spend much and that we do education very much in one way. Look, we're a little small institution where we all deal with education and everybody makes those educations. We changed the modus, we didn't spend but we did education, we promoted in a way that we worked through guidelines, through instructions, through a series of materials that simply reach the public, to a professional public who should be interested in moving in this area, maybe we could be a little more generous, a little bit I would say.../The speakers speak at the same time./... I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38124	The next replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38125	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Pichulan, you simply refuse to understand what he's trying to tell you. You were not told that you are hiding something in your report but simply right to access information you do not see what is missing in the system and you do not see your role as a promoter of someone who will work hard or suggest how to make the system better. And as you, within the powers you have seen your role and task, best shows that you have refused one association in the request of the HBOR to publish its credit rating and that right, therefore the right to the HBOR credit rating data was only elected in the Administrative Court. So you're not a fighter for access to information, you're a system fighter to keep the system the same. Short and clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38126	Commissioner Piculjan's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38127	So a man should really refrain when and I will do so, I will answer you measuredly, what you last say is highly unacceptable, simply extremely offensive, extremely untrue. As for HBOR, I can't do this to you right now, I don't have time to make such decisions we don't make, our wrong decisions or if they're not right to go to the High Court for reviewing largely, largely being confirmed, but being the Commissioner for Access to Information I don't want and I don't want to and I can't, and I'm not going to promote myself, I'm going to promote the system and I'm going to promote what I'm doing, and you can see it in the report. I'm not going to promote myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-05-0.u38128	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
