ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71528	Now let's move on, the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS is a respected colleague of Anka Mrak Taritash's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71529	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll go to Rome. She has a well-known legend about Roman Senator Katon Sr., who allegedly ended every speech in the Senate with a sentence that she felt that Carthage should be destroyed and repeated that sentence until Carthage was truly destroyed. I don't think it's necessary to destroy Kartaga, but that's what the Romans have already done, I don't think anyone or anything else should be destroyed, but I think that VAT on women's lining needs and tampons should be reduced. And I have absolutely no intention of giving up this idea until the Parliament and the Government decide to accept it, especially not in the week when the budget is passed. Plenkovic and the government are constantly boasting that they are successful, as income rises, as we sail through a crisis of unexpected good and our growth is surprisingly high. On that side, whether it's like that or not, but if it's like that in some parts of the team up by the government because that means that VAT on the cartridges and tampons simply don't want to cut it even though they might. This means they are not interested in more than 50% of Croatia's population and the fact that women pay taxes that men don't pay, simply because biology doesn't require cartridges and tampons, one pure sexist tax. Since last week, there has been a petition to reduce VAT on cartridges and tampons that has launched a number of associations gathered in an initiative to reduce taxes on menstrual supplies. I invite all men and women in Croatia to find and sign the online petition. Sign the contract to remove an unnecessary and unfair tax that affects only women and only because they are women. We learned a lot about menstrual poverty and the importance of VAT cuts from last year's survey of the Rijeka Association "Pariter". The survey showed that every ten women in Croatia have no money to buy enough cartridges or tampons, and even a third of girls and women have to buy less quality products again because of lack of money. Women don't change pads and tampons often enough, avoid going to school or college, dating and stuff, and all because you're something they need because women just can't afford. And no matter how many countries reduce taxes, and some of the most advanced ones go a step further, the hygiene needs are free, regardless of how much tax cuts and EU recommendations or the European Parliament's rulings do not give in. They don't want to cut the VAT, and they're done. But neither I personally nor a whole series of colleagues, and also a colleague here in the Assembly, together with civil society organisations, have any intention of giving up. The proposal will be back on the agenda, and we will explain it in detail and reason again, so maybe Minister Maric and Prime Minister Plenkovic decide to adopt it. Well, they can suggest it themselves. It's not important here that it be mine or anyone whose proposal is important to adopt it. Perhaps colleagues from HDZ could suggest, we would be happy to support that. Otherwise, the last time the proposal was rejected by the HDZ Assembly, it concluded that "the government is preparing an analysis within six months to look at the overall problem of menstrual poverty and to take the necessary action to eliminate it." It was October 29th a month ago and a day ago, and I'm just curious about where the government got on the job. What we do know is that the people who have done the biggest research on this topic in Croatian history, the government has not yet contacted. Don't think of colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ that I won't ask you what happened and what the government did around April 29th, I expect to present the results of the government's work on the basis of this conclusion that was supported by the Parliament, and until then, and I am afraid then this reasonable proposal which the budget would not even notice, and would help all girls and women in Croatia will not be something that Plenkovic, his Government and his majority want to support. When the directive comes from Brussels, then they'll all act like they came up with it themselves, and by then we fight further and we won't give up. Ceterum censeo VAT on cartridges should be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71559	Thank you very much. We will now listen to a colleague of Domagoj Hajdukovic on behalf of the Social Democrats Club and then we will take a ten-minute break and then we will start with the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71560	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. We're at the last day of November, it's a month that's very important symbolically, I'm not going to talk about some of the unkind events from not so far past that have marked our independent state as much as I'm going to talk about some other markings during this month. It is a November month to fight violence of all forms, domestic violence, violence against women, bulllings, etc., but also a month of health. A month of health when trying to raise awareness of the fight against cancer and something that deserves a few words anyway, at least here's the last day of November, which is a month of male health. So, the November moon is dedicated to male health, and it is also known as Movember. The world has been marked since 2003. He wants to put men's health first, and in November, men grow awareness of men's diseases. It's a big emphasis on men's prostate cancer over 60 years of age and testicle tumors of younger men. Although on the first one, this action could seem to be a joke so that it has a funny character, it actually has one very important goal, which is to increase the awareness of male diseases and the mustache has also accepted Croatia in which the annual battle with this vicious disease loses about 800 men. The idea of Movember comes from 1999. when several men from Australia began to grow a mustache in protest to distract the community of men and their health. The name of the month itself is two mustache (brushes) and November (students), over time the action has spread around the world as I said in Croatia, and accepted and outgrown one of the 100 largest NGOs in the world. In addition to already highlighted prostate cancer and testicular cancer, this action also draws attention to other problems such as suicide, depression and similar health problems in men. One survey by the European Association for Urology conducted on a sample of 2,500 men in Italy, France, Spain, Germany, the UK has seen disturbing information, namely as many as 50% of the men surveyed did not know that it had a prostate of which it believed to be a female organ. Furthermore, 22% knew she had prostate, but did not know her position in the body, 43% said they would not seek medical help if they noticed blood in the urine, and 23% of the subjects would wait more than a month before they turned to the doctor for frequent need for urination, 28% of those surveyed for burning or urination would share the problem with the doctor only after a week of symptoms. It is worrying that 42% of them would not talk to their doctor about prostate cancer, and 50% of them do not know any of the symptoms of the disease, even thinks that the disease is not lethal. 10% of diagnosed prostate cancer patients lose this battle. If prostate and testicular cancer is detected at an early stage, it is curable and it is information that needs to be repeated over and over again and over again. In the first thought and examination of this disease, the PSA test, so-called. prostate specific antigen. It's a blood test that determines the PSA in the serum, this test is not a diagnostic nature, but the result of each test puts it in one of the risk categories. The first PSA test should be performed at the age of 45 and each of the following should be determined according to the value previously performed and according to the family history of this disease. And finally, let me just underline the three main objectives of Movembra, so November, which is behind us, which is informing and educating the population about prostate cancer and testicular cancer, and about the importance and concern for men's mental health, then raising funds for research, treatment and care for the sick and finally preserving mental health, early detection of disorders and the fight against discrimination against men suffering from mental disorders and the prevention of suicide. Although as I said at the beginning of the last day of November, we think at the Social Democrats Club that it deserved a mention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71561	So we've come to an end with a view. Now we're gonna take a break by 10 o'clock and 35 minutes when we continue on the announced agenda. Thank you. It's 10:00.29. 7th is a respected colleague, Grozdana Peric, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71584	Thank you, well-respected president, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed citizens. The EU Commission has published a autumn European Semester package to analyse the macroeconomic situation in the Member States. The analyses show that economic developments are positive and that fiscal stability is gradually restored after emergency measures to support the pandemic. How is Croatia standing here? When compared to 21 members, from now on available data, Croatia had the highest GDP growth rate in the 3rd quarter and 15.8%. If this is seen in the first 3 quarters, the Croatian economy has grown 10.7% and this is the largest GDP growth in Croatia ever. The Romanians are behind us with 8%. The entire EU together had an average growth of 3.9% and this shows that our economy grew even 4 times faster. What is important to say is that in this situation it is certainly very impotent for us, however, it cannot and must not be stopped because exactly the National Resistance and Recovery Plan must bring new and more quality growth and development of the Croatian economy. What's important is that during this period that was behind us, there was no social break. They helped themselves, both entrepreneurs and citizens. Also, changing laws and many laws regarding social welfare are very helpful to the most vulnerable groups. It also helped the private sector with salaries and economies that avoided numerous bankruptcys, while workers kept their jobs. Growth has contributed to the growth of goods and services exports by over 48%. This is where we must mention the tourist season that was very high quality and precisely thought-out decisions of the government have indeed been preserved and held by this tourist season. The growth in personal consumption in the second quarter was 18%, over 18%, and in 3. 16%. That's the most since 1996, back in '96. Mr. Industrial production is higher by 3.3%, retail sales by more than 19, construction works are also higher by over 7.6% and also, based on tourism data, the arrival of foreign tourists that was higher by more than 91% and overnights by more than 72%. For these very reasons, we can also base the data that the EU Commission has substantiated, and also all those data that say that growth and credit ratings have increased already, here, for the 3rd time in positive prospects, so from BBB- to BBB positive prospects, it is talking about just how much these thoughtful and quality measures that have contributed to the growth of our economy at the right time. It is in all this that I believe that we must be very pleased and optimistic and that everything we bring today and tomorrow, when we are going to discuss the State Budget for 2022, third and fourth, we must go in this direction to really help our citizens and our economies live better and trust what this Government does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71627	Let's move on, the 9th is a respected colleague, Selak Rasudiæ, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71628	Before I start on the subject of today's speech, I will only briefly look back on the speech of the HDZ Club, which repeats what we have been hearing about lately in the Croatian public, and that is how successful our economic policy is, which is why we will have a very high, one of the highest in Europe, GDP growth next year. We do not want GDP growth in order to have GDP growth, we want GDP growth because in some normal logic of the state's affairs it is a prerequisite for well-being. Well, given that and knowing what's going on not only in recent days but in all the past years, and now culminating in the case of Zalac and this entire DORH affair, then this growth of GDP sounds like some kind of promised paradise that average Croatian citizens will never reach or feel. It's like someone's telling me that she's arrived, that I'm painting myself, a new Armani collection in the windows that I can just watch, and I'm never going to afford it, or that it's going to be sunny in Hawaii for a week, so those deep pockets can go there and enjoy surfing. So when you boast about GDP growth, colleagues from the HDZ can tell you as an average Croatian citizen that tomorrow I would sign a double lower GDP growth whose consequences will certainly be felt by all citizens who will end up in our pockets than three times as much GDP growth if you can secure it, which we will never see because of all the corruption that your institutions are networked with. And now I'm going to say something about whether testing and for whom testing in Croatia is free of charge when we talk about covid certificates and what is the problem with that decision and what all that illogicalness and discrimination produces. Often we can hear that vaccination in Croatia is not mandatory, so when these certificates are introduced, it is possible for those who are not vaccinated to be tested free of charge. This is incorrect or only partially correct, and in that decision there is a key discrimination against all these epidemiological decisions currently in place. Namely, it is free for us state and public officials, but it is not free for other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, those who are not vaccinated and need access to basic services should raise their pension or go to the post office cannot do so unless they will not pay for the testing themselves, which means that citizens of the weaker property status are particularly discriminated against by this decision or forced to be vaccinated. In a country where vaccination is not necessarily anti-democratic, it is either an indirect or an increasingly direct coercion on it. It is therefore inadmissible that some citizens do not have access to basic institutions unlike those of us who have received free testing here if we are not vaccinated, we can now freely enjoy all the benefits of the covid certificate without any additional cost. The issue of free testing currently culminates with the decisions of individual colleges where students are placed in a more unfavourable position than their teachers. The headquarters made an epidemiologically completely absurd decision, which is that teachers must have a covid certificate, and as far as they are concerned personally, students do not have to. You understand that there is no epidemiological logic in this because the virus will not ask you what your status in society or degree of education is but will go towards who it will go towards. Of course, the headquarters did so to wash their hands off the responsibility of paying for testing to students, and thus colleges are in an epidemiological situation that is completely on their own for all equally. And now we have a paradoxical situation where students of different colleges are discriminated against by their professors, which is completely inadmissible as much as possible by completely different rules depending on the college we're talking about. As a college professor, I am inadmissible and must clearly stand up against that any student of mine in his right to study who often pays out of his own pocket and works while studying in a subordinate position compared to me who has the right to a free test while he does not have the same right and has to literally earn to be able to study and can not make a free decision about his health. I appeal to the minister to take responsibility in this situation, the rectors and the deans to meet the students, and the professors to solidarity with it. that the students were left in a more unfavourable position and that they would not allow it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71654	Let's move on. Now it's like the 8th Honored colleague Ante Prkacin on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71655	... Oh, I'm sorry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, are you guys gonna turn it on? Well, I got a little nervous about this pay phone. Not from the porch, I beat her a long time ago, but because I prepared a very serious speech, but during my colleague Zekanovic's debate and the team on the left, I got five messages to get involved in it, and now I don't know where to go, I need a little bit of each other. I wanted to talk about the situation in Montenegro, namely, in Montenegro, the state's attorney's office of Montenegro or, as we say, the state's attorney's office, and they say the public prosecutor's office, has filed charges against the Serbian Orthodox Church. And it's not all about that. The problem of the Serbian Orthodox Church has been transferred by a team of lawyers and politicians to the EU, the UN, the State Department, even the NATO Alliance because of the militant, military and paramilitary actions of the Serbian Orthodox Church. But I have to get involved in this story from a moment ago. A colleague, Zekanovic, angry at the introduction, said that he was returned by his colleague, Peovic, that she often mentions II. svt. The war, it pisses him off, it bothers him. It bothers me the way you treat II. svt. War. I'm really bothered by so much passion, so much negative emotion, and in my mind, what the Bosnians would say... About II. svt. The war needs to be talked about the facts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That II. svt. The war, colleagues and colleagues, is actually a continuation of the clumsy completion of World War I. The war. First, we need to know how Hitler treated Yugoslavia. It is important to know that Hitler loved and appreciated the Serbs, that Hitler's officers called Yugoslavia Primadon because of the way Hitler treated her. But when it happened, it was signed in Vienna on 25.3.'41. between the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the German Reich. Two days later in Belgrade, the demonstrations were destroyed, Serbs seeking war. It wasn't the communist party that started it, it's known that she did the English secret service, and a war that takes a short time, which cowardly ends and the Yugoslav army gives no resistance. Even the Croats were somewhere on the border and resisted a little, but there was no resistance. After that, Serbian nationalists react in one way, Croatian nationalists react differently. Croatians create their independent state of Croatia, Serbs create Kvislinska Neviceva, Nevic reacts in one way, and Draža Mihajlovic reacts to the other. Nevic bows down to the Germans, and Draža goes to the Western allies. The KPJ is silent, asleep and still until 22.6. when Hitler is likely to attack the Soviet Union and then join the rebel Serbs in our premises and then begin the massacre of the Croatian people. I'm here for the third time here, so in the book Memorial Book published in 1976 in Chicago, it's what the Chetniks best describe and explain. They make fun of us Croats and say that we are a joke and a mockery because the Day of Resurrection is celebrated as the Day of Resurrection of the people of Croatia, thought of 27.7 in Serbs, and then in the uprising as they said none of the only Croats participated. And a similar mockery to us Croats are their brothers communists who were involved in the uprising, but the seven leaders of the uprising are seven Chetnic dukes, so Bosnian Petrova took over Mane Rokvic, so Bosnian, Bosnian Grahovo took over Bran Bognovic, not to lose much time, but I think it's more important. In the anti-fascist stands three or four months ago I appeared and Mr. Goldstein made an incident as prepared for this Partisan here was to do just before, and I asked two questions. First I told him to answer the question when the Partisans in the Serb and environmental space fired their first shot at Italian fascists and occupiers? They slaughtered all Croatian. Only when 118 Croats from Ugljan and other islands came up was the first shooting of the Italians. I've still asked him to comment on the case since 19.10, from 10.10'40. When Joseph Broz becomes secretary general of the KPJ and writes out, the Hitler, Hitler, Hitler, Stalin Agreement And the occupation of Poland by Hitler on one hand, and Stalin on the other. [[Intruder: Thank you]] If everyone gave me advances one two minutes, that would be very nice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71679	Thank you. We are now going to a second debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71680	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is interesting how colleagues from the left always return to World War II, which is interesting, always, always always, always returning to World War II. I don't know, they're laughing and laughing, so they're laughing. I personally never mentioned Ustashas in the Croatian Parliament but I heard from the left 100 times or 1000 are mentioned and just before, my colleague Peović talks about Ustashas. Who's going to talk about anything but Ustasha? And then one thing bothers her, which is that this assembly, this assembly that she.../incomprehensible/... had continuity and this assembly where you stand today and he has continuity and in that period and it was, and so it was the Croatian army as it was the Croatian army I will admit it on the other. These were Croatian armies, yes and were respected colleagues of Peovic. And she's bothered by the cemetery, and they're bothered by the cemetery. What would you be throwing bones around like the Chetniks were throwing bones around Vukovar and looking for them today, here's a fellow from the green-left option. So you'd be throwing the bones of Croatian soldiers like the Chetniks of '91 threw them away. By Vukovar, great. We are obviously a state case, so from Zlata Hrvoj Šipek, Drazen Jelenić, Mamic points to the Croatian judiciary's failures today. We have indictments against ministers, and in fact the lacmus paper is exactly what counterpart Peovic was just talking about. Lakmus paper is when exactly 4 years and 1 day ago, on the day of yesterday there was a memorial victim of Slobodan Praljak when half the assembly stood up and presented the victim of Slobodan Praljak, and half the assembly where the green-left team did not even come to the assembly because they do not recognize, understand and understand the victim of this man, Croatian hero. Just as we could listen to a member of the ruling Milorad Pupovac coalition last week talking about ethnic cleansing. Speaking of how Serbs were ethnically cleansed in '91, '92, '93, '94. and '95. A year. That's what he says about this pay phone in the Croatian National Assembly. Is this the Croatian National Assembly because it is the Croatian State. I'll call him whatever I want. And I called it that a few years ago and I'm gonna call him that as long as it bothers you or don't bother you. So we're state case I'll repeat. When someone can come for this pay phone here and regret why any one's bones will be properly taken care of or buried in a dignified manner, in a cemetery. And we're the same state case because a member of the ruling coalition can talk from this pay phone about ethnic cleansing and nothing to anyone. And it's bad for us. It's bad for us to write. My colleague, are you threatening me with something, colleague Peovic? Please, fellow... I beg to be ill-written, is that it? [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71681	Please, just a little colleague Zekanovic, let's please stop arguing from the bench you have the opportunity to intervene whatever you want but all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, we have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first colleague Raukar Gamulin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71682	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to pray nicely for the 238th article, the demeaning and the parliamentary representatives, and I would like to say to this tall home. I would ask you to introduce your colleague Zekanovic to the fact that this high house is called. Namely, it's called the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71683	Comrade Raukar Gamulin, it is a famous thing to call this home the Croatian Parliament, but it is also known that these are free speeches of taking a stand. So, I did not intervene in the presentation of my colleague, Peovic, who also got tired of any attitudes that are not acceptable to a large part of the MPs here, as probably my colleague Zekanovic's views are not acceptable to a part of the Croatian Parliament, but I do not intervene in the content. It is well known to you, nor will I unless there are personal insults as it is in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You're getting a warning. Now it's time for a colleague of the Voice, Osquirtie.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71684	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I believe that my colleague Zekanovic has injured the entire Rules of Procedure and that his failure, in fact, his mention of the Croatian National Assembly, is not a failure. He's simply lagging behind in time and space. I would ask you, too, regardless of what you are not intervening in the content, but I don't think it is appropriate for you to be treated by the president of the Croatian National Assembly, because you are the president of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71685	If I am the President of the Croatian Parliament, as you are representatives of the Croatian Parliament, but I repeat once again this is the presentation of the position and you are all elected by one people and you have your constituents, anyone who has won over 5% probably supported those 5% views that you represent here. So don't take what you find unacceptable, what you don't consider to be your own attitude to demand that I punish the warnings for breach of the Rules of Procedure because these are not the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. You get a warning. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71686	I really didn't want to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure because you're giving regular notices and there's nothing in that content that can be said here in the Assembly that would really go as a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Insulting Parliamentarians. But if it is not an insult to parliamentary representatives to call HS the name he wore during NDH, if it is not an insult to HS that your Josip Djakic is talking about the president of HS from NDH as about Mr... [[Break president: Your time is up.]] should be observed.../ [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71687	/Intruder President: You are being warned
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71688	I don't really know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71689	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71690	So, article 238, colleague Peovic, if I'm not mistaken by 2002. This home is called the official Croatian National Assembly, I know it creates a big problem for you, and at the time when Croatian sovereigns come to the position of government they will again be called the Croatian National Assembly. And fellow voters, if anyone is lagging behind in time and space, then it's you in the SDP who still have Tito's pictures in your rooms. You're behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71691	Good fellow Zekanovic and you get a warning because this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica. Let's move on, now it's SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Mirela Ahmetovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71703	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, colleagues and colleagues. Not a day goes by without finding out any new picnic from the workshop of the main state attorney Zlata Hrvoje Šiček and under allegations of an independent and independent DORH. Some things are not worse than to repeat that the public would not be killed by HDZ's flossulas on the fight against corruption and judicial independence. The affair software in which the main protagonist is member of the HDZ presidency, Gabriela Žalac, is getting brand-new outlines and turning the main state attorney into the main assistant in the cover-up of this affair. First, USKOK Director Vanja Marusic lied to the public that USKOK had left the case by force of the law to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. This is also a synchronised repeat and main party lawyer, Parliamentarian Damir Habian, for the public to be dying that there is corruption not being directed by HDZ but rather combating this same corruption, so European Public Prosecutor Tamara Laptoš has revealed to us that they have independently launched an investigation based on the reporting of journalists, not because USKOK has left them the subject. So on that famous press, the Director of USKOK again excelled with lies convincing journalists that no failure had been made and that the chief state attorney should have known nothing about the investigation even though it should have been known about it and even though the European Prosecutor's Office should have been informed. So on the same press, there was a co-principal turn in which Vanja Marusic admits a failure but notes that this failure is not the result of protecting anyone. Well, the state's chief attorney is still running surveillance, but he can't find the file because the original was sent to Luxembourg, and the copy wasn't made. Well, here in the assembly, the state's attorney general said she didn't know about the investigation, so she knew little, but she didn't see the file, so finally the press found out she was in the briefing at the state's attorney's office in June 2020. The timing is very important you would say Prime Minister. In late May 2020, however, another HDZ corrupter, Josip Rimac, was arrested. It was a potentially bad timing ahead of the elections, but Josipa Rimac was not at the mercy of Andrej Plenkovic, who managed to get rid of it, and he could also assume that the HDZ was struggling hard to fight corruption thanks to its extensive radar. But another investigation and possible arrest of the prime minister's favorite and member of HDZ presidency, Gabriela Žalac, would be a difficult blow to HDZ, ahead of the elections. After all the recent events around the DORH, we can reasonably suspect that this is why the state's chief attorney stepped down the investigation. Fortunately, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is not a remote control in the hands of Andrej Plenkovic, so the investigation also led to the arrest of Milnic Zalac. Gold to Hrvoje Šipek is not an instrument in the fight against crime. She is the HDZ instrument in an effort to cover up corruption. She is Plenkovic's bearer of good news, spokeswoman in the impunity of large crime. It was sad to see the main state attorney lose focus at the beginning of the assembly session, and it is dangerous to watch when the concentration is not lost in the cover-up of HDZ corrupt feathers. It is now clearer why Andrej Plenkovic received the Zlata Hrvoje Šipek in the Ban Courts before the election. Obviously, she's getting closer to explaining what's expected of her. The Golden Croatian Ship was accidentally found in this place. She's just a telegraphist at the service of the country's HDZ occupation. The latest developments around the DORH show in real time that Croatia is in the hands of HDZ. Their war spoils, their gold coke and the corruption industry. It is clear why Plenkovic protects Zlata Hrvoj Šipek so much even when it turns out that the chief state attorney can't even cover up his criminal bad work. Because Plenkovic protects himself because if Zlata Hrvoja Šipek falls, he will lose a safe lever that will cover up crime at the very top of power. This is a situation where the dishonest protect the dishonest, wetted, no innocent. Now it is only a matter of how the moves will be drawn by Andrej Plenkovic's mastermind corruption cover-up operations. The head state's attorney and director of USKOK are just puppets in his hands anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71724	We are going to the sixth debate on behalf of HNS, HSU, and independent MPs, respected colleague Ermina Lekay Prlaskaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71725	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in recent months we have witnessed the increasingly pronounced exclusion of culture, dialogue in public space. Unfortunately, the speech of hate and impatience becomes our daily life. We are witnessing a lack of tolerance and respect for diversity. Recently, I am myself completely unargumented, unargumentedly called from this assembly pay phone because of the alleged lack of professional experience and professional competences. How absurd and even malicious these nicknames may be based on a simple insight into my biography that is available to everyone. Found in such an easy way of disinformation I felt the need to address you with a few words. By relativising political and moral responsibility by late reactions, by further encouraging politics, by dividing policies, we allow society to be segmented while tolerance as a value that integrates human rights, pluralism and democracy puts on the margins of society. History has shown that divisions never do well for any of us were we a quiet majority or a brave minority. Tolerance is a process whose affirmation we must contribute to every day at all levels. So let's start from ourselves, from us here in this high house where we are often witnessing rough and inappropriate verbal advances, labels and disrespecting the objectivity and authority of truth. It often happens that public advances are based on false and unverified information. As a result of the collection of daily political points, the speaker unnecessarily becomes the point of dissipating hatred and not patience. I personally advocate open and reasoned communication based on verified facts and believe that political and moral responsibility should be a priority in the exercise of public duty. It is precisely because of the relativisation of political and moral responsibility that citizens lost faith in the political system and all the good that quality policy results in. The speech of hatred and threats is not only an individual's defeat but also an entire society that wants to advance. I believe that all of us here want our society to move forward. So together, let us show not only the declaration but also our own example that the culture of the fact-telling dialogue and the argumented defense of attitudes can be cherished in this high home. We must never forget that as representatives elected by citizens, we have far the greatest responsibility for every spoken word and that the trust given to us by the citizens must be justified daily by our work and behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71732	Thank you. Now we'll hear from a colleague named William Matul who will speak on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71733	I would like to thank the President, my dear colleagues and colleagues. We're used to citizens saying about the assembly in the polls with very low grades, so the average rating they've been getting in these polls for years, that's some skinny two, barely enough. Today, at the meeting, we will discuss the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest which will require JLS representative bodies to produce ethical codes. Now, I'd really like to know, we know that HS still doesn't have an ethical code, we've initiated it, the adoption of such a code at the beginning of this year, and I'd really like to know what that reason is, which is why today HS is going to pass a law where it requires local, JLS that they have to have a code, but we because we're respected representatives here and we've taken this important step and probably the number of votes gives us this amazing legitimacy that implies that we're all here ultimately absolutely ethical, and we're listening to the day-to-day ruling... But at the weekly level, almost every day something happens that has nothing to do with them, which is completely unethical, but that has nothing to do with HDZ, but for these very reasons I don't know which, I can't believe, which is why I couldn't bring an ethical code. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why don't we have the force to bring that code? And I don't see why we can't bring it along with this law on preventing conflicts of interest? Here I think and the president of the assembly is here, Mr. Bacic I see here, I don't see what that would be the reason to ask local self-government now that they have to bring those codes, and why can't we make a commitment that within the next six months as well as that law will come and we bring our ethical code? How many times have we talked about different questions here than yes, here's from exactly what business issues like people don't come to committees and leave their votes deposited, that they don't come to Zagreb at all, not that they're not here. I still understand in some of the pressures when the two or three committees are being set up at the same time I've been experiencing and that's because you can't just get there. And until, in the end, it proved that what the ruling majority interpreted as good customs was that you were still forced when it was decided to elect the head director of HRT and when it turned out that such practice was, of course, contrary to the rules of procedure as you all know it, but you call it good customs. But how is it that for the ruling majority there is always good practices for those who do not comply with the law? But of course it has nothing to do with this new HDZ, and you're willing to build on it all the time. Parliaments around the world are making more and more efforts to bring their actions closer to citizens and citizens, especially in terms of technological innovations that make it possible. In the first half of '21. GONG participated in comparative research, a regional index of openness of parliaments in which we went very badly and this research examined Parliament's openness in 4 areas, transparency, accessibility, integrity and efficiency. The openness of the data was measured as a common parameter of all these areas. Accessibility refers to insurance and respect of procedures. But what I'm trying to say is that one of the important remarks to them and the proposals to this assembly in Croatia is to make this right. Ethics code. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71734	Thank you, Comrade Matula. As far as the ethical code is concerned, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are in charge. As far as I know, they're working on it, and I believe they'll be brought long ago by the six months you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71735	Good news.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71736	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71737	That's nice to hear, finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71754	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We begin with the presentation of the position of representatives clubs and independent representatives and representatives. Today, first in line, dear colleague Katarina Peović on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u71755	Good afternoon, everyone. What does HDZ do in the year of the crown and in the year when the recovery from the earthquake hasn't even started? Well, last week at the War Veterans Committee, we received the conclusion of Josip Djakic, the chairman, that the Committee would accept the conclusion that the Ustasha cemetery in Mirogoje should be arranged and that cemetery called the cemetery of Croatian soldiers in 1941-'45. On my insistence, fortunately that conclusion has been changed and Josip Djakić accepted that it is a cemetery, that is, calling it the cemetery of NDH soldiers, we quickly understood the meaning of what it was about. It quickly turned Croatian into what it really is, which is NDH. I am pleased that the chairman accepted my conclusion, but my amendment to the conclusion, but they did not accept the conclusion in which I asked that the Committee be clearly determined according to the use of the term Croatian soldiers for Ustashas and Domobrans. So it's not the first time, so that's when I found out that there's a cross on Mirogoj with a sign on it, so I'll read to you, an eternal memory and glory of the dead and the dead of the buried members of the Croatian army in 1941-'45. With an unforgettable memory because they're with us. Beautiful pleonism with an unforgettable memory means no less than a co-operationist army responsible for the crimes during II. svt. The war. There falls into the water every story about how the cemetery of eligible persons is arranged here, that the descendants want to commemorate their ancestors, here it is, colleagues and colleagues, about the memorial of Ustashas and NDH, among other things the chairman Josip Djakić wrote in that conclusion, no less than that of those 550 dead Ustashas and Domobrans and the president of the Croatian National Assembly then, meaning Marko, and this gentleman, is in conclusion, Mr. Marko Doshen. In addition, the chairman has now attached this.../incomprehensible document and private correspondence, colleagues and colleagues, to a kind of man named Peter School, whom he was a Ustasha uncle who he wants to bury privately, correspondence with Ivo Goldstein, Professor Ivo Goldstein, Furia Radin and Franjo Habulin, meaning from the Antifascists Association. These are all meaning private correspondence, somewhere back in '16. Until '18. where Peter Sola asked if he could bury his uncle, which, of course, these three told him that they didn't see any problem, private burial means putting a cross on a private grave wasn't a problem for them, but Josip Djakic puts that private correspondence with people who have no idea that they were put there in that context as an argument that we should arrange the Ustasha cemetery in Mirojo, that we should agree to that, and that these 3 are also declared, whether, antifascists, they have stopped. However, the problem is somewhat wider than this conclusion, perhaps it will stand at that conclusion, which has been voted on as voted, everyone except me have voted for that conclusion, but so the Croatian will probably have a much wider problem here, which already means capillaryly exists for years, and it is that in fact in public space the Ustasha and the Domobrans are called the Croatian Army, which is what our President of the Parliament said in Bleiburg one year, here, Austria forbids that Bleiburg memorial, and we put such expressions in our documents. This is a Croatian Domobran association that propagates such projects and, unfortunately, in 2013, joined the Committee for Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeterys, so when I asked the question, which means such projects brings, so when I asked Tommy Medvedu a question he told me, so that's what Milanovic did to you. I hope Milanovic, who has not really been celebrated with this, will respond to this, but I certainly warn you colleagues and colleagues about what is happening in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75791	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 10.35 HOURS]] First point: - Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, First Reading, P.Z. No. 225 The applicant is the Government pursuant to Article 85. Constitution and 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Before I give my word to the proposer's representative to the respected Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica, we have requests for a break, the first colleague of Grmoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75792	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult in this bill of law that is coming to us in the wake of the DORH affair that proves that the Banian Courts are connected with the DORH that closed our eyes to protect the Prime Minister's favorite Gabi. This law that is put here before us is full of legal diluents and its only goal is to shut down the commission to prevent conflicts of interest, but it is no wonder that most independent institutions are under the full control of the government of Andrej Plenkovic. Now it's the same thing to do with the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. What worries us is that even when we have concrete evidence, when we have the fact that the main state attorney here in the Croatian Parliament has been deluding and was familiar with the case of Žalac, which is being told by Branko Bačić, as told by Minister Malenica, that these speculations should be examined and that HDZ will then give its final right. There's no speculation here. We have firm arguments here, here we have evidence that the state's chief attorney knew everything the same as the whole of Croatia clearly what you're trying to do with this new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. So it's all clear, and all you're waiting for is no longer the departure of the state's chief attorney, but the departure of you killing independent institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75793	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75794	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, conflict of interest is the lobby of corruption, which has no doubt. The fight against conflict of interest is the fight against corruption, the fight against corruption at the moment when it has not yet begun to cause damage when it has not yet as one cancer started spreading across the body of our country, our society, destroying it, destroying it, metastasizing it. The Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest was one of our most successful independent bodies. In addition to all shortcomings, with all the gaps that inevitably occur when you are working the Committee on Conflict of Interest, it has prevented a number of corruption affairs from emerging at its speed and effectiveness. And what are we doing now? What does HDZ propose now? Euthanize it, disable it in further work. Bring him down to one simple bureaucratic body on a simplest chat. Is that our goal? The goal is to turn one body that was able to bring down the government into a single fiishal, bureaucratic, which will only deal with the list of property cards and their publication on the Internet. And that is what will happen if we adopt this law in this form. The principles of action that politicians must lead in their work were one of the strongest mechanisms in the fight against corruption. We asked to be strengthened, we asked to be clearly predicted and sanctioned for their violation, and what did we get? We have received that these principles remain in the law, but if the official, the politician, any of us do not adhere to that, there is no sanction or even condemnation from the competent authority. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you really do We want to fight corruption this law in this form [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It can't go through. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75795	We're going on a three-way call for a break, colleague Katicic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75796	Dear President of the Assembly, Ministers, State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues, and on behalf of the HDZ Club, we are looking for a break of 10 minutes in order to inform the club again and to examine the relevant text of the law more precisely in the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which is introduced by this text. As the amendments are known, these are neither amendments nor additions to the conflict of interest law in question but rather a completely new text, which means that the whole consultation procedure with the interested public has been conducted and an overall assessment of the effects of the regulations. This only proves that the text is consistent with all stakeholders who are directly interested in the issue. It is also concluded from so far communication in the public as from this debate that the new law requires the current work of the commission to be offended and the provisions of Article 5 of the law so far mentioned. I would like to remind you, and by reading in detail these provisions of the article of the existing 5th Law and article 6 of the new 6th, it is almost identical to the text of the law. Therefore, all lunches and criticisms which go in the direction that the new formulation of the current Article 6 wants to pave the commission and that this principle will not be used I consider incorrect and flat-rate. On the contrary, such a provision will allow the principle to be applied in accordance with the legal principle it has in any legal act, as confirmed by all decisions of the Constitutional Court, administrative courts and the High Administrative Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75797	The 4th request will be explained by his colleague, Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75798	Thank you. So, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break in order to actually point out once again that we are in a situation to discuss and discuss one of the key preventive mechanisms in the fight against corruption in, in fact, the atmosphere that we recently had a ruling party for corruption, which this law suggests, that we have a complete crisis of institutions, so both DORH and USKOK, which we witnessed here last week through the answers of the main state attorney and through the fact that it is actually evident now that contradictory statements have been made about their behaviour in the case of Zalac. Furthermore, the fact is that this law euthanises the possibility of preventing corruption or preventing conflicts of interest through the inability to act according to the principles of action referred to in Article 5. And what this really is, this commission and this law were supposed to serve, which is that it strengthens actually the officials themselves in following the principles of action and reacting already at moments of potential conflict of interest, we are now definitely debilitating this completely. The issue remains unresolved, one of the key issues is actually political corruption that we can see through property cards, which is, for example, that we still do not regulate the issue of transfer of property to adult children, as well as the question of, for example, the purpose of land that we must quote in property cards and their re-changes. We'll talk about all that today. If we wanted to have effective anti-corruption mechanisms, we'd find all this. In law, but it's obvious you don't want to. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75799	Thank you very much. 5th request for a break, dear colleague Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75800	I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the RF for 10 minutes to remind us once again of the importance of this law, but we also warned of a detail that was heard in public, which is that some HDZ officials and local officials are not very pleased with these amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and that it is precisely Ante Sanader who, in some way, has rebelled those local HDZ leaders and has responded against this appearance of the law to which Andrej Plenkovic replied that he would not change it because parts of that law were nevertheless exposed in the National Recovery and Resistance Strategy. But I'm also interested in asking it here as a question and a minister, in which way and why such reactions occurred, and given that Ante Sanader is a kind of mentor to Vinko Zulim Segetski, a longtime chief of staff we've heard about a scandal with his son a few days ago. Namely, his son has been awarded a concession that no one has ever heard exists, meaning a maritime good for a rainwater discharge. Otherwise local people tell me there is probably a hotel with 20 rooms and a marina to be built there. But from day to day it's not a matter of having an affair, it's not just a matter of HDZ being a convicted party, but we're literally hearing about affairs from day to day, so here's the one a few days ago, day two means in Seget. I'm going to be interested in it, and here we're going to ask why local leaders are opposed to it, and of course they're opposed to any changes that are going in this direction, taking into account the way they've been operating at local level and how they've been running their jobs for years and how they keep doing it and doing it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75801	We're going to the 6th request for a break, my colleague Zekanovic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75802	Dear President HS, I demand a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for 10 minutes to further consult on this bill. I would warn here of a fact that I never speak of, and it is that the commission that we will discuss a little later has made a grave mistake and it has been relatively recent. So 2016. The commission led by counterpart Oreskovic unfairly, wrongly, unfairly assessed or condemned Tomislav Karamark and therefore we have a ruling of the administrative court which annuls the decision of the Committee for the Decision on the conflict of interest of the Republic of Croatia, I will not read the number. I would like someone to be publicly told to Tomislav Karamark in front of the committee about the damage that was done to him and, of course, the political damage that can't even be measured, and it would be fair from colleague Oreshkovic, given that she was doing her own political ambitions at the time, and she had them, obviously, because she was sitting in HS today that she was actually carrying political and any other damage, and any other damage in view of one rough, harsh failure she made. I, here I will dare all the way here to say that the question of whether it was a failure given her political ambitions that were achieved today through her mandate in HS, so the commission we're discussing was wrong, it was wrong and there were capital errors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75803	The 7th in a row has just been named colleague Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75804	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Center Party Club and the GLAS party for 10 minutes for consultation. First of all, I want to say that I am looking for a break because I have no other option in my Rules of Procedure, but what I should really ask for is a minute of silence, so then as the former president here called to decide on a conflict of interest might say, dear commission rest you nicely in peace. In fact, opposition representatives of all those who know matter well estimated that this law represents a step backwards, and I would say that it is not just a step backwards but a final end to the purpose and purpose of the existence of a preventive anti-corruption body such as the commission. They say colleagues from the HDZ deputies that this is a whole new law, so here I call on the present Justice Minister to try his opening statement to say exactly what new institutes would serve to prevent corruption in this law because I claim they are not actually there. What you've built into this law is mere nonsense. And as for the decision on the Tomislav Karamark case, to this day none of the facts that have been spoken has been disputed in this case. If anyone on the political scene thinks it was such a guilty decision, especially from the work of HDZ and all those who openly or below the surface, I suggest that they invite Andrej Plenkovic to submit his resignation because as far as I know and how much memory Andrej Plenkovic is serving me today would not sit where he is sitting if there were no commission decisions in the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75805	And we're going on the eighth request, dear fellow BArtulico. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75806	Thank you. I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. You see, until we face the truth, the great truth that in Croatia too much is determined by politics no law will succeed in preventing conflicts of interest. Croatia is actually a country where the space for abuse of power is huge. The share of the total state when public enterprises are involved in GDP is over 60%, which means that around two thirds of the population depends directly or indirectly on the consumption that is under policy control. The situation in institutions is known so they are not free, what is happening in the DORH is only symptomatic that our institutions are trapped, the people who work in them are not until the end free to take whatever it takes unfortunately. We see countless examples that show this, and even this law cannot prevent it, unfortunately, because attacks to abuse powers are too great. Every layer of red tape from local level all the way to the state is actually a space for conflict of interest, depending on how we look, maybe for HDZ colleagues, that space is where new people can be employed, we see that in the public sector a large number of people are employed and much easier than in private, but in reality it means that these people are coming into a situation that they can abuse their positions. Unfortunately the price and we all pay, that's what conflict of interest means that we all end up paying for what a narrow circle of people are doing for their narrow interest and it's time to end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75807	Thank you. All breaks or breaks shall be deemed to be respected, but shall also be in accordance with Article. 293.b. We can continue to work, so I will now call on the Minister of Justice and Administration, the respected Ivan Melenic for the opening speech and present to us the proposal for a law on preventing conflicts of interest. Here you go, Minister. I'm just asking you to hold the tiles so we can catch everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75808	The Honorable President of HS, respected MPs, respected MPs. The area of prevention of conflicts of interest is an important part of the fight against corruption, primarily because of the preventive character of the task carried out by the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. The legislative proposal that is before you the issue of conflict of interest is in line with the international standards and recommendations made by GRECO and the European Commission in the report on the rule of law. The Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest by adopting these amendments remains an independent and independent body that will be designated in three ways, by extending competence to new taxpayers, by strengthening their capacities and by improving the process they lead. In relation to the existing law, a significant newspaper is that, instead of the term, the official will use the term "obligor" to remove any doubt about the status of the address of the law in relation to officials under the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State officials. A significant circle of law-holders and competences of the Commission is being extended, the bonds of the law will become among other presidents and members of companies with which the Republic of Croatia is the majority owner, but also those whose founder is a majority-owned company of the Republic of Croatia. Presidents and members of the management of companies whose municipalities, cities and counties are majority owners, but also those whose founder is a company owned by the majority of municipalities, cities and counties, then the presidents and members of the management of the FINA, HBOR, HAMG-Bicro, director of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, director of the HAVC, director of the CROMAC Council, presidents and members of the Management Board of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and Croatian Regulatory Agency, Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, Director of the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, Director and Deputy Director of the Central Agency for the Financing and Contracting of EU Programmes and Projects, Directors of the Port Offices, Directors of National Parks and Nature Parks, Directors, Directors and ZUCs, then Directors and Directors of the Local Institutes, who are only in the Administrations’s’s’s’s Office (H. The expansion of this circle extends the competence of the Commission in public duties, which detects the national corruption risk, giving them quality instruments to prevent and sanction conflicts of interest. This legislative proposal also provides for a legal basis for the adoption of codes of conduct for members of representative bodies and units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The definition of receiving the obligor is also expanded in such a way as to prescribe that the monetary income is considered to be received on any basis, not just for the conduct of public duty. The definition of officials' salary remained unchanged. The definition of a business relationship, along with existing categories, is also extended, purchases, leases, leases and concession approvals are added. New obligations of the obligors are also laid down, the regulation of private relations in order to prevent conflicts of interest within 60 days of the election or appointment of public office, thereafter, the declaration of conflicts of interest and the prohibition of participation in the decision-making process. Also, a new institute is being introduced to prevent conflicts of interest, a declaration of conflict of interest. The legislator will have to declare a potential conflict of interest and remove it in order to protect public interest. They are exempt from decision-making on situations which could constitute a conflict of interest between private and public interest. On the subject of carrying out property cards, several newspapers are prescribed. Property cards will be submitted once a year until January 30th of the current year. It is then specified the duty of the debtor to submit an property card within 15 days after 12 months of the termination of the duty. In addition to the data already available, the property card will include data on the activities, memberships or functions performed by the obligor 2 years before the entry into service, on the shares in companies, on the possession of the cryptcurrency and on claims from third parties. In addition, the power of the Commission is prescribed to set a deadline for the delivery of supplementarys, explanations and evidence of the entries in the property card submitted. The Commission will immediately initiate proceedings against persons who do not have a property card, with the exception of those who have first submitted their property card. These pledges will call on the Commission to fill out their property card before the procedure is started. If the data of regular checks of property cards indicate a possible discrepancy or disproportionateness between the reported data and data of the competent authorities, the Commission will be required to forward such information to the IRS. It shall also extend the cooling period in which the bonds will not be able to be appointed to management functions in the business entities with which the body in which they have worked was either in a business relationship or controlled by them for 12 months to 18 months. The procedure before the Committee shall be improved, instead of 3 steps so far, and the procedure before the Committee shall cover 2 steps, and the initiation of the procedure and the decision to exist, i.e. the absence of a conflict of interest. The exact deadlines for the Commission's action in these proceedings are also prescribed, so the Commission will be obliged to inform the officials of the existence of the application and to request an indication within 8 days. The Commission will, as a rule, decide within 6 months on the existence of a conflict of interest in the initiated procedure. The Commission's decision will be able to launch an administrative dispute before the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia within 90 days. The Commission will be obliged to inform the applicants of the existence of an application or knowledge of a possible conflict of interest and to request its indication within 15 days. In addition, the issue of the exemption of the president and members of the Committee has been detailed. On the grounds of the exemption, the reasons why the exemptions in the General Administrative Procedure Act are prescribed apply. The exemption of the members of the Committee will be decided by the High Administrative Court by a decision in the Council of 3 Judges at a non-public session. An exemption proposal may be submitted by any member of the Committee or the President, as well as by a party to the proceedings. It is important to stress that this Law strengthens the penalties for violating the provisions of this Law. From now on, the Commission will be able to impose a minimum penalty of 4 thousand kuna, instead of the previous 2 thousand kuna. The maximum penalty is still prescribed in the amount of 40 thousand kuna. The paper is that the Commission will be able to give sanctions to a debtor who does not supply the requested information. The commission will be able to impose an administrative sentence, a warning or a fine and a criminal penalty, in keeping with the principle of proportionality. This provision not only respects GRECO's recommendation but respects one of the fundamental constitutional principles. As for the so-called so-called. I would like to point out that the conduct of special proceedings for breach of general principles has never been prescribed by this Act, but the Commission has taken over a practice that was not based on law and that practice has been found illegal by the competent courts. The Commission will be able to impose administrative and monetary sanctions on infringements of the Act relating to specific infringements, and for the prohibited operation of the debtor, for non-declaration of conflicts of interest, for non-determination of decisions when prescribed, for the obligation to submit an property card, for receiving gifts contrary to the law, for receiving the compensation of non-legislative obligors, for carrying out other non-legislative transactions, for membership of administrative bodies and supervisory committees against the law, for membership and for the share of taxpayers in commercial societies and for operating restrictions against the law and for the indication of debtors in the event of discrepancies, i.e. disproportionately declared property. Respected MPs and MPs, this legislative proposal revised provisions that were not sufficiently precise, regulated legal issues that were not prescribed and removed the shortcomings of the laws that were observed in practice. The Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest remains an important independent anti-corruption body with new mechanisms and an extended detour. I believe that in today's debate we will focus on the essence of this Law and on the issue of improving preventive mechanisms, instruments to prevent conflicts of interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75809	Thank you Minister, we're going to go with the replicas now there are 23. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75810	The Honorable Ministers after several times while this law was in public consultation criticised the ridiculously high fine of 1,000 kuna for failing to document, you increased it from 2 to 10, to 2 to 10,000 kuna. What kind of message is that sent? So, if it is an important documentation for him to cover up some of his manifesto and criminal acts, someone will pay 25,000 kuna fines and will not submit the documents as Prime Minister Plenkovic did not provide documentation on a party party in Finland or the paperwork on fraud in our embassies. So this is what you're destroying, in fact, the reputation of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest rather than having the situation as it is with the court. When a court asks you for a particular file, you must deliver it. So, do you want to go to the second reading? change that? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75811	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75812	Thank you, Your Honor, so first of all, this is not a court case but is an administrative procedure so that this analogy cannot be applied to this procedure, and certainly in determining sanctions for non-compliance with the provisions of this law, we have been guided by one of the fundamental constitutional principles, which is the principle of proportionality, so that, by these principles, we consider that the penalties provided for by this law are appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75813	Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75814	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, here is the proposal for a more detailed regulation of the rights and obligations of the members of the commission, as their status is determined. I think that this is good because it would be important for these members to be, therefore, members of the commission to be professional persons, to be persons of great legal knowledge especially in the field of administrative law or administrative procedure, and that is all because in the past we have had a situation that I would say because of the lack of that legal knowledge, it is now happening that a number of decisions by committees fall in courts, so to the Administrative Court, the High Administrative Court, precisely because of the misapplication of material law. So if you can only briefly state what these are new rights or what are the conditions for someone to become a member of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75815	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75816	Thank you very much. So the law itself further specified certain provisions of the applicable law, especially in that part of the legal gaps that were in force in the law and which proved to be in the application of the law itself. And as for the Commission itself, therefore, by prescribing detailed conditions on which members of the commission must meet, we are certainly going towards the commission, sitting in the commission with quality people educated and professional who have been educated in the field of ethics or integrity and I believe in fact that this law and on the basis of the establishment of the commission itself is a step forward so that surely this law, but also the case law over the past few years, will contribute to making the decisions of the Commission itself even more high quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75817	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75818	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, one of the objections to the work of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia was that she did not use her authority or refused to use her authority to allow the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to decide whether the commission could assess the principles or their infringement. As we know, the attorney general rejected such a request from the commission and rejected it without any explanation just a few months ago. That reaction from the attorney general is just one of the reasons why we're looking for her shift. Since you weren't here last week when we discussed this, I'm going to take this opportunity to ask you if you think the attorney general should be removed and will you initiate this procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75819	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75820	Thank you, Your Honor, as the subject of today's debate is the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, then I would actually focus on this law and replicas that are from, which are related to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75821	Comrade Maric, please excuse me, my colleague Bosnjakovic. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75822	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers today are the Law on preventing conflicts of interest in first reading here in front of the Croatian Parliament. I personally think he's offering a whole series of good newspapers, he's much clearer and more precise than the one that's in force today. What I would like to praise as one of the newspapers, it is a much more precise procedure in fact the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, but certainly its great newspaper is the expansion of the circle of taxpayers who must act on it. So there's going to be more property cards, there's going to be a lot more handling, so I'm wondering if you're planning to strengthen the administrative capacities of the commission itself that should actually be equipped in the humane sense, but also in that material sense with regard to the means of digitisation. Are you planning to strengthen the commission so that it can respond to new tasks?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75823	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75824	Thank you very much for asking. So, in the working group, which he worked on and on this law were members of the Commission itself and, in fact, it is already apostrophysed on the working group itself that the commission will need to strengthen its staff through the basis of a number of new powers it receives, and in that part, the Ministry of Justice and Administration is at the disposal of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest to further staff or administratively strengthen itself, as well as to enable it to have all the benefits of digitisation that we have in the state administration. It's primarily connecting to a number of state registers. So already now the commission is connected to a number of registers, and also in cooperation with the NPOO Commission is actually, it is envisaged to further improve the information system of the Commission itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75825	Now it's your turn, comrade Maric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75826	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, Art. 3. of this bill, state which are bonds of application of the law and at 65, the directors of health institutions which are the founder of the Republic of Croatia or the units of local or regional self-government shall be added. Now, in the Law on Health Care, which is now in the process of change, we could see some parts in public space, according to the article. Amendment 157.4 where it says that the business of the employer's activities must not be concluded for their own account by the Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director of the Medical Institute, this has been so far and the head of the clinic, the head of the clinical establishment and the head of the medical institution is added. However, according to the information we see in the public space, Minister Beros has reset these changes under obvious pressure from stakeholders, so I ask you, is there a potential conflict of interest for you when, for example, the head of the clinic or the deputy director of a KBC has ownership or co-ownership of a private health institution? Thank you. a change under obvious pressure from stakeholders, so I ask you whether you consider a potential conflict of interest when, for example, the head of the clinic or the deputy director of a KBC has property or co-ownership of a private health care facility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75827	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75828	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here's what I don't know about the provisions of that law that you've currently stated and which is in the debate, in the public debate, it seems to me, isn't it? So here we focus primarily on the heads of these bodies, or the heads of those institutions in the area of health, which is the founder of both the Republic of Croatia and the JLS. I believe that through these specific regulations, special forms or additional measures will be defined to prevent conflicts of interest in these specific areas, such as health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75829	Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75830	Dear Ministers, this law provides for autonomy in the adoption of ethical codecs which should probably replace the commission in its key earlier duties, and from my interpretation and... the ability to detect conflicts of interest. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That we have too much autonomy in the interpretation of ethics in politics we witness daily. My question, including the rhetorical question, is what would be the ethical code of one of the mayors who was convicted of violence or what an ethical code a mayor who received bribes be known to the entire Croatian public. The specific paradox consists of the Assembly ordering some to adopt ethical codes, and I have as the main body that should have been a guideline to others has not yet brought it. My question is very specific, in art. 57. states that within 6 months these codes must be adopted, on the basis of which guidance when they are not yet made and how much autonomy they will be in those codes, and what does that even mean, autonomy in ethics? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75831	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75832	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here during the free speeches and the speaker of the assembly pointed out that the code of conduct for parliamentary deputies would soon be passed, and the code of conduct for state officials would soon be passed. So, our goal is by this law to oblige JLS representative bodies to bring code, codes of conduct. As for these leaders, first of all, we have here and through the amendments to the Law on Local Elections, so we have further extended the restrictions on candidateship in local elections, and also the termination of the term of office if JLS is convicted of a criminal offence, so sentence of prison for more than 6 months. So in that part, we have taken a number of activities and I believe that through the new strategy and action plans that are being adopted on the basis of that strategy, we will also prescribe additional measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75833	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75834	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests under neither existing law nor under this law is a moral police force, nor an ethical court, but a state body which is required under the law to determine whether a single official is in conflict of interest and, if so, to punish him sharply. It's a commission duty. How pointless in the legal sense was the procedure so far when the commission called for the possibility of declaring guilty officials for breach of the principle of action the best words of the decisions of the commission that they had declared because of the violation of the principle of the officials guilty, but they did not allow him to appeal because he was not sanctioned. Now, you, as a lawyer and minister of justice, tell me how normal it is to find someone guilty and at the same time not to allow him to appeal to that solution of the commission?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75835	Here, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75836	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You pointed out well, so the commission unlawfully took over a certain authority which was not entitled and that was actually established by the constitutional court, but after that, both the administrative court and the high administrative, high administrative court. So, we are all legalists and we respect the decisions of Croatian courts and, in fact, in the course of and the drafting of this law, we have taken into account these decisions. What you pointed out, so the commission is not an ethical body, so it is the administrative body, and according to that premise, we are going to make this law by giving of course additional mechanisms. So, Art. The 7th Bill contains more than enough mechanisms and instruments for the Commission to act in the event of a conflict of interest. So, first of all, the commission should be a preventive body, and here I welcome the Commission's activities, which have been educating local officials over the past few months. who have entered into office on the very law itself. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75837	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75838	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm sure you're aware that Austrian Chancellor Kurtz recently had to resign on suspicion that he tried to influence public change through pressure on polls and so forth. Is it also known to you that public companies in Croatia buy regular media space, the leaders in these companies are appointed by the government, is this practice a possible conflict of interest for you? This happens regularly in Croatia so many companies are monopolies almost without competition, so it is not clear why we should invest so much money in media space? Is there perhaps a possibility that they might influence government ratings and those who name them that way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75839	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75840	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I have to admit, it is not known to what extent or manner in which companies are renting media space, whether they are mandatory on the basis of European projects, because we know that we have certain rules on the visibility of these projects and the activities of these bodies, so I do not know it, nor do I know the details why the Austrian prime minister resigned, whether it was a conflict of interest or something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75841	Here you go, Comrade Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75842	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Your Honors Minister, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal for a law on preventing conflicts of interest and I believe that certainly one of the goals is that private interest should never be in front of public interest. That is why these innovations strengthen both the status and the rights of members of the commission, not only through their professional empowerment but also through the declaration of both the president and the members of the committee to officials, but also through a stronger analysis of the report on the work of the commission which will certainly lead to a better analysis and decisions and all that the commission does and facilitate their work, so if you can comment on that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75843	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75844	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well certainly the openness and transparency of the commission is something that we have put into this law and where we are actually working on that commission through this now new procedure which, in two steps instead of the three steps so far, remains an important anti-corruption mechanism, one important correction. And what I just pointed out, so the commission through its primarily preventive role should prevent potential conflict of interest. I have pointed out that the commission has spent the past few months conducting a series of activities across cities and counties where it educates local officials, new local officials on the law itself and those obligations stemming from the law. I also believe that the conduct of this law will be carried out by the commission of education for all the officials or officials to whom this law applies to inform them of their obligations and thus prevents conflict of interest. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 7. There are more than enough Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75845	Comrade Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75846	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Minister. During the debate we have heard more than you have heard that you have included in this bill a number of preventive transparency mechanisms, and on the other hand you have also said that the commission is benefiting from the benefits of digitisation, which is more surprising to me and I ask you, why you have not passed a provision of the law in which officials or bonds will be obliged to carry changes in the property card within 30 days, and not during the year as before. I think that's necessary because of the transparent determination of the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75847	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75848	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thus, it is through the provisions of this law that some newspapers are introduced in both part of the property cards and the submission of property cards, so instead of the principle so far, when only major changes have been introduced, larger and more important changes are now being made to the obligation of one annual submission of property cards, and by 30 January for the past year, some newspapers are also introduced and in the part of the new obligors to which these laws apply. So we have a certain relief that if the new obligor may not be familiar with the rules of this law that his failure to submit is not immediately a reason to launch but the commission may warn him. So as for property cards, therefore certain rules are in the provisions of this law, and I can point out that the commission has also agreed to the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75849	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75850	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The story of a conflict of interest began with politicians, and first politicians supervised politicians and then we found that it was not good, then politicians said it should be done by independent people chosen in public competitions and we did so, but what happened? When we selected independent persons in the public tender, they became politicians through their work in the commission and are now telling us about the independence of such bodies. I don't think anyone has ever paid more attention to the independence of such a body than the person who was in the competition sent by a politician and uses the cases in which she tried every day in her work. I'm asking how we're going to deal with this situation in the future. Are we going to solve this in an ethical code through changes or through these forms of proposed law and how to prevent it? Because I argue responsibly, no one has ever done a worse thing for the commission in terms of independence than a man who has been elected to the competition, and has become politicians and used cases in his discussions as a politician.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75851	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75852	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Certainly, the code of conduct of officials is something we will be actively working on in the next period and I believe that through this code of conduct we will prescribe certain rules of conduct of the officials themselves. What you pointed out is that when decisions were taken on certain cases, therefore, there were certain reasons which were not exclusively related to conflict of interest and the determination of conflicts of interest but were some other reasons primarily political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75853	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75854	Dear Minister. Here's a similar question as before, only I'll be a little more explicit. Give us your comment on colleague Oreskovic on her current function in the context of her last job or I want to hear your comment, your position regarding the acquittal decision of the Administrative Court regarding Tomislav Karamark.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75855	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75856	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here I would not refer to the specific subject matter of the commission itself, but it is important that the Constitutional Court is in its decision in the summer of 2019. in fact, he detected the very illegal conduct of the commission because he had actually asked certain questions for the Administrative Court that should have answered these questions in his decision and, in fact, the Administrative Court clearly found in its judgment that the commission had acted without having the power to act in the first place in relation to the principles. Thus, the legal order of the legal system and the judicial authority clearly established the behaviour of the commission at the time and the decisions of that commission which were certainly reflected in the future commission and the decisions that were recentual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75857	My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75858	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, why do you feel that this legislative proposal does not require provisions concerning the conversion of agricultural land into building land? What makes you think there's no corruption risk in that segment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75859	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75860	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, so I must admit that the task force I led was not being discussed, but here we can talk about it today and listen to the arguments so by the second reading we can see through the working group whether there are elements to include it in the law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75861	Comrade Zmaic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75862	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers, this new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, provides for the introduction of additional obligations for public officials, covers about 1000 new taxpayers who will have to publish information on their property and about 7,000 council members, which in the county councils, in urban and municipal councils which are subject to ownership obligations in business entities and other obligations. Do you think that these new laws that prescribe new taxpayers and additional obligations will improve transparency and efficiency in preventing conflicts of interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75863	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75864	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So that was also our goal when we were preparing this new law, but what is important is that the commission implements education after the entry into force of this law and, above all, those new taxpayers to whom this law applies, but also existing debtors. I would point out, however, the members of the representative bodies of the local self-government units because in this section certain obligations apply to them so that through one education, the Commission should educate them on the obligations arising from this law. And certainly our goal is to ensure transparency, openness and prevention of conflicts of interest or prevention and ultimately certain criminal offences. So the commission contains a series of preventive mechanisms, a series of preventive instruments that will certainly effectively affect the prevention of conflicts of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75865	Comrade Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75866	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers I have a question, so in the property card it is not intended to report the property of adult children or parents and it is evident that the gift contracts so without tax in this direct line are completely free of charge, it is very easy to transfer property to children or parents and, of course, avoid public exposure to the whole picture of the property. Yes, my question is very simple, will you enter into the second reading and the category into the property card and thereby prevent the recorded possibility of very easily avoiding the full and true reporting of the entire assets and changes of the property card? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75867	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75868	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's the same thing as re-purposed land, so today we can listen to all the arguments that you're going to point out here, it wasn't debated at work together or the commission asked for such changes, and here's after today's debate and argument that we can certainly listen to this one think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75869	Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75870	Thank you. Here is the Honorable Minister, tell us in which way in this law the Commission has mechanisms to prevent the use of public funds for party interests. So let's say here's some hypothetical case we can imagine that in the future we would have some irresponsible prime minister who takes a government plane and takes his party officials to a party rally in a country in northern Europe, a beautiful town of type Helsinki, which, in particular, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, could do on this issue in this law if he can't use the principles of action and what would be left for him in case this hypothetical prime minister, we hope we don't have, not to have the data, and not to give travel orders to the Commission for conflict of interest in order to determine what happened. What's left to the commission other than to charge 1,000 kuna fines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75871	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75872	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we've prescribed for the first time and the penalty for not delivering documents that's worth 2,000 kuna. So, through this bill, the commission contains a series of mechanisms and instruments, above all, they are contained in Article 7 of this proposal of the law, but as a lawyer and I believe you are aware of the Constitutional Court's decision and decisions, the judgment of the Administrative Court and of the Administrative Court, the High Administrative Court which has laid down poorly, defined its status or its position on the principles, that there are certain means of assistance to be interpreted in the context of some other provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. And that's what we managed to do when we changed this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75873	Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75874	Dear Minister, I must agree with your party colleague when he says that the public interest should be in front of the private interest, and therefore I am interested in why certain meetings of the committee or decisions of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest are left out or that the meetings of the commission are not public and the reasons for this are, for example, the protection of privacy or the protection of public morality, and we all know that there is a possibility that if we wrong about the law that our public morality will be compromised, and I repeat why this possibility has never been left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75875	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75876	Thank you, well-respected representative, so the working group was also involved in the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, so the joint agreement was that in certain exceptional situations, first of all, the protection, when we talk about the protection of public security, but also the preservation of the procedure itself, so the session can be made unpublic, therefore not secret but unpublic, therefore it is an exceptional option which is made available only to this Committee, which, in particular, will assess whether there is a need for it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75877	Comrade Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75878	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor. I honestly find it devastating that you've even said here that you haven't considered the change in the property cards. change in land and objects, we could have been, i.e. We have witnessed so far from the lowest local levels, where changes in the spatial plan have been in favour of certain politicians, and let us not forget that a minister has left the government for that. It's incomprehensible to me that you haven't discussed it at all, either, one question, do you think you should, like, do you? in the EU Commission to extend the number of years compared to the revision, e.g. at 10, compared to the 2 that are now in the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75879	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75880	Thank you, Your Honor, for 2 years we consider it more than enough to revise or look back on the working status and relationship that the official had, I think 10 years is too much, so 2 years is enough. As far as this first part of your question is concerned, I think that, in addition to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, we have a number of other mechanisms, above all, the Criminal Law, which, if there are certain offences, prescribes certain penalties, so that there is, I say, a criminal law element in a particular act, so that the criminal authorities will act, or judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75881	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75882	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The European Anti-Corruption Monitoring Body-GRECO assessed the report at its meeting. 5 Laws on preventing conflicts of interest as a central article of the whole of the Law. Of course, it is discussed about the general principles of action in the exercise of public authority, and it also pointed out that its enforceability needs to be ensured. As regards the power of the Commission to decide on a breach of the principle, it is therefore pointed out that the Commission must have that authority, i.e. it also has that by supplementing the law, it is necessary to ensure that it is precisely enforceable or that specific sanctions are imposed if those principles are violated. In this Bill of Law, you have completely disregarded the comment, or the conclusion of GRECO, just as the DORH chief has ignored the thieving of Gabriela Žalac. I'm curious how you intend to justify this intentional devastation of anti-corruption tools in front of Europe, when you don't care about the Croatian public and the Croatian profession?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75883	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75884	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we also took into account the recommendations of GRECO and all the recommendations or content of the Report on the Government of Law and we met, here I can say freely, so all the recommendations of GRECO and all the recommendations of the Report on the Rule of Law. So I would absolutely disagree with you about interpreting the recommendations of GRECO, so there is no explicit indication that sanctions should be laid down for the principles of art. 5 Laws on the prevention of conflicts of interest, so we have double-checked and had an active dialogue with the European and Commission themselves, but also with GRECO, so we have incorporated in this legislative proposal all the recommendations of GRECO and all the recommendations resulting from the Report on the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75885	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75886	Thank you. You have said repeatedly that this Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest will improve and bring new mechanisms to prevent conflicts of interest, including at local level. We have heard in the media that local leaders, by means of spokesman Ante Sanader, are rebelling against and such a bad bill of law, but I wonder how this law will react to local leaders like Vinko Zulu in Seget, who is known for spending only seven thousand kuna for one lunch, as long as it takes a minimal worker for 2 months, is a fan of lamb, otherwise, and now that he has come out, or is no longer the head of the municipality, his son has been awarded a concession for which experts have never heard, it is a concession to build a discharge for the coastal waters. No one's ever heard of it, but it's supposed to be a hotel and a marina, so I'm wondering, how is this law going to change that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75887	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75888	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I wouldn't put in the context of this Law of an individual official and here I refer to whether he's in conflict of interest or not, so it's within the jurisdiction of the Committee itself. We have prescribed through the provisions of this Act a series of instruments and elements relating to local self-government, first of all, from the expansion of the circle of the taxpayers of this Act, where we are mostly going to local self-government, to companies owned by units of local self-government, to directors of certain institutions that are the founder of local self-government units, to representative bodies of local self-government, so that we are actually based on our anti-corruption strategy, where through a certain analysis we have established that there is a certain corruption risk at local level, which is actually resulting from a series of international documents, so we have paid particular attention to the local level, so here I believe that this Law, and above all, the activities of the Committee in the prevention will result in a reduced conflict of interest at the local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75889	Thank you. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75890	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, let me explain something about independence. In the period when I was president of the Committee of Conflict of Interest, I had no contact with any politician from any political option. At that time, the Commission's reports were adopted with the approval and praise of all representatives' clubs, both from the SDP ranks and from the HDZ and all others. The Constitutional Court has never disputed any fact or any established thesis. He challenged the powers of the Commission, and how independent is the Constitutional Court showing the photograph and text that speaks of the President of the Constitutional Court enjoying the fish and wine in the tavern with Branko Bačić, so I ask you in whose interest have these controversial decisions of the Constitutional Court been made? It's a violation of independence, and it's an example of a person sitting in a place he shouldn't sit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75891	We now have a response to the replica of two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75892	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238, namely Mrs. Oreskovic disrespects lawmakers and lies that the constitutional court has abolished the provisions and solution of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. No, ma'am. Oreskovic, the constitutional court has ordered the administrative court to review whether you and your successor and the commission acted in accordance with the law. And courts, regular courts, not constitutional, regular courts, administrative courts and high administrative courts He said that you violated the law, that you adopted the provisions of the law.../Thank you very much...... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] The law didn't give. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And instead of apologizing To the Croatian public, you're doing this to the others. [[Agreement: colleague Bačić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75893	Thank you very much, you get a warning because you're replicating. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75894	Thank you very much. Art. 238, colleague Oreshkovic demeans our ability to think about independence, and then she said she was independent. The president of the Republic himself recently said that he personally brought her from Ibler to that commission and that was recorded by all the media. I haven't seen that kind of independence, we know who she tried, why she tried and why she became a politician and retired the independence of that commission in the perception of citizens and politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75895	Col. Boric, this is also not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica, so you get a warning. Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75896	Thank you very much. So here's to refer to the Constitutional Court's decision, or judgment of the administrative court, which stems from the Constitutional Court's decision and in which the administrative court actually answered the questions asked by the Constitutional Court. The Court of Justice pointed out clearly that the position of that court is that no one can be subject to a certain legal consequence if the reason for the result is not clearly defined and predictable at the time when the addressee of the norms operates or fails to act. The whole series of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are in favour of this position, and these are the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. So, in your work, you have acted against certain fundamental legal principles and certain fundamental legal standards, and there is also a decision of the Constitutional Court and a decision of the administrative court where your conduct is actually confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75897	Now it's time for my colleague Simunic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75898	I would like to thank the Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Minister. The new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests will significantly expand the club of the obligors whose fulfilment of the obligations will have to be controlled before the commission. The proposal for a law, however, does not provide information on how much resources the Commission will have to increase. The very information that the funds will be provided in the state budget does not meet the purpose of the provision that the proposed new law should provide information on the necessary means to implement it, taking into account the staff strengthening, digitisation and all other aspects of the improvement of the work of this body, and I am therefore interested in what means are planned for the implementation of this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75899	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75900	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I've already answered those questions before. Therefore, we are aware of the need for additional administrative capacity by the Committee itself to decide on a conflict of interest in the exercise of all new powers that have been placed in their jurisdiction, and we are certainly at their disposal not only in terms of administrative capacity but also in part of further digitisation and informing the work of the Commission. In this regard, we also in the NPOO in that part of the sub-component relating to the judiciary, and it is also specific to the fight against corruption that we have also envisaged a specific project that is heading towards the development of the information system for the Commission itself, which should facilitate their work in concrete, concrete cases. Thus, administrative capacities and material resources will certainly be the subject of discussion and respect when the budget is drawn up or the budget is rebalanced when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75901	And the last replica, colleague Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75902	Mr. Minister, I have a question for you and, or a request for your explanation regarding what municipalities and cities will bring ethical codes and whether you really think the same ethical standards will be applied, for example. in the city of Varazdin and, for example, In the town of Seget?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75903	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75904	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, in the provisions of this law, there is a obligation for JLS representative bodies to adopt a code of conduct, and before we mentioned that the same will be adopted by HS and that the same will be adopted for state officials. It is certainly our goal through certain guidelines to adopt codes of conduct in all JLS, to establish high standards of ethical behaviour of members of representative bodies in local self-government, not only representative bodies, but also other officials, or taxpayers, who come out of this law, and I believe that this law, together with the Anti-corruption Strategy and the measures to be taken under the Anti-Corruption Strategy, is therefore a sufficient element, i.e. a basis for combating corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75905	Thank you Minister, we're done with the replicas, so you can go to your seat. And before we continue our work we have a request for another break, my colleague Bernardić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75906	Dear President of the Assembly, we're looking for a break because we can't really trust the Social Democrats what the minister from this pay phone said today when it comes to conflict of interest. So, on the one hand, you criticised the Commission's work to decide on a conflict of interest in one of the cases, and then you came here to present a new law and say that it will bring important improvements, but on the other hand you refuse to answer the question about the Zhaoac affair and you refuse to say your opinion. My question to you is that someone forbade you to speak, it's one option or you don't have your own attitude. If you don't have your position, then it's hard for you to be able to behave properly as Prime Minister in the government. But I actually want to help you answer this question and answer very clearly a few questions that I will ask you. So my question is, is it a conflict of interest when software happens in the software affair in question, and regarding former Minister Gabriela Žalac gets a company that only has one employee, is that potential conflict of interest for you? Is it a conflict of interest when the company increases its revenues by 5,000% based on that transaction, de facto it's the only income it received, so they're 5,000 percent of all their incomes from last year, is that a potential conflict of interest? Is a potential conflict of interest when, according to all the media writings, a job worth 2 million is worth 13 million? So these are all media facts. I'm asking you to answer unequivocally whether this is a conflict of interest to you because I don't want to believe that we have a minister in this government who doesn't want to or doesn't know what potential conflict of interest is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75907	You requested a break, the break was approved, however in accordance with Article. 293.b. We continue to work, so I will now call on the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of my colleague Bošnjakovic to address it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75908	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the HS at the 24th session held on 25 November discussed the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the president of HS. The Committee discussed that proposal on the basis of its competence under Article. 60. The Rules of Procedure of HS as a home working body. The proposer stated that this bill provides for significant improvements in several areas by extending the address of the law, by introducing additional obligations for applicants to declare conflict of interest and banning participation in decision-making in favour of property cards and other public duties, by significantly improving the regulation of restrictions after the exercise of public duty, strengthening the status rights of the Commission for the conflict of interest, more detailed regulation, more detailed regulation of the provisions of the procedure before the Committee for the Decision on the conflict of interest and their amendment in terms of harmonisation with the rules governing the administrative procedure and the more advanced regulation of the sanctioning system. During the debate, it is stated how the principle of action of art is prescribed. The 6th proposal, without the possibility of supervision of their respect and control of enforcement, and the imposition of sanctions, limits the Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest in its action, has been clarified, however, as is the case. 7 of the proposal for a tax-prescripted code of conduct which is considered to be a prohibition of the operation of the obligors and provides for sanctions for such behaviour. It is also pointed to judicial decisions in relation to the applicable Article. 5. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, taking into account the possibility of decision-making by the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest in breach of the principle of action of the prescribed article. It is also proposed to review the provision of the Article. 53rd of the proposal in relation to the behaviour of the obligor against the provisions of Art. 23 of the bill, given the meaning and purpose of that sanctioning. In the end, the Committee is mostly 7 votes in favour of, 4 votes against, 1 abstention of supporting the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75909	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative of Peja Grbin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is a regulation that our country has passed to try to counter corruption. The conflict of interest is something that politicians should be forbidden or something that should prevent politicians from working or acting where their interest is based on something private, something personal, and therefore prevents them from acting in favour of everyone, in action for the benefit of the public. The conflict of interest is when, for example, a minister, a member of the HDZ presidency, assigns the job to someone completely incompetent because of the fact that she is her friend. The conflict of interest is also when a politician who is at that time the head of the municipality, tomorrow the minister again from HDZ, changes his spatial plan to allow himself and himself to allow the agricultural land to be converted into construction. Of course, conflict of interest often grows into crimes such as in these two cases that I have described, but if we intervene and if we create strong mechanisms that will detect conflict of interest in time, then with a considerable amount of security we can believe that certain corrupt actions will be prevented. Last week, when she defended her report from this speaker and resisted certain reasons for her shift, the chief state attorney still said something worth remembering and what exactly speaks about how successful states should fight corruption, which is that the fight against corruption cannot only be left to the repressive apparatus, she cannot because if we do not have preventive mechanisms to prevent corruption from happening in some situations at all, and then neither will the best state attorney in the world have the strength to fight the corruption rush that exists today in Croatia. And what are we doing in this situation? Instead of strengthening those institutions, those allegedly independent institutions that should represent the defence of corruption, such as in this case the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest or several weeks ago when we discussed this, the Commissioner for Information and the Law on the right to access information. The HDZ majority in all these situations is doing exactly the opposite. It sets their feet, prevents them from working, transforms them into simple bureaucratic chats, whose authority comes down to listing, correspondence and reporting about it, but the real authority of the fight against corruption that existed yesterday in Croatia will eventually disappear with the adoption of this law. Several times in his debate, the minister called for the decision of the High Administrative Court, in my opinion scandalous and not in the spirit of the Constitutional Court's decision, but contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, however mild, however insufficient the Constitutional Court's decision was, the High Administrative Court went even against it. And that decision by the High Administrative Court, which is interesting in the case which, among other things, is not directly concerned by the prime minister, the High Administrative Court in fact took away the strongest authority from the commission, which is to say whether a politician, an official, violated the principles prescribed by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. And those principles talk about whether someone is in conflict or not. And the High Administrative Court has made it impossible for the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest, in fact, to say whether an official is in conflict of interest or not. After that decision by the High Administrative Court, the Commission for the Decision on the conflict of interest cannot fulfil what its task is. I repeat, the Commission's decision on conflict of interest no longer in the Republic of Croatia can decide whether anyone is in conflict of interest or not. And instead of taking advantage of this law that is now in front of us and correcting the wrong decision of the High Administrative Court and for the future, we say, not the Croatian Parliament is firmly behind the fact that the conflict of interest must be established, it must be made public, and we in the SDP consider and must punish, the HDZ ruling majority says it cannot. The Commission's decision-making committee on conflict of interest will collect property cards, publish them on the Internet, and that's that. Other since the state's attorney's office, the police, etc. do not do their jobs, the rest will remain on the media and possibly social condemnation, and unfortunately we can see that even social condemnation in Croatian society does not work the way it should. And that's the taste of this law. This law should not be called to prevent conflicts of interest at all, this is a law on promoting conflicts of interest. Because in Croatia after the entry into force of this law, if you're in conflict of interest, you won't even get a conviction from the competent authority, you'll only get what you put in your pocket through this conflict of interest. To be clear, not all things in this law are bad, there are certain that are good as the SDP Representatives Club has proposed in its own time. As the SDP Representatives Club proposed in its own time, 19.6.2002. '19. The part relating to the exemption is also adopted. Interestingly, it took the rulings only 2.5 years to adopt this proposal, 2.5 years in which the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the president of the HDZ used the fact that the issue of exemptions was not resolved by law to make it difficult for him to make his case. Now that we are taking away the commission the ability to decide on the principles of the Prime Minister's case can no longer be subject to commission work, now the exemption provision can be included in the law even more identical to what the SDP proposed in 19.6.2009. And that's what colleagues and colleagues tell you about the impact of politics on the work of independent institutions. Where I can intervene directly, where from a competent person, let's say the state's chief attorneys can ask for something directly there they'll do so. Where I can't, like in the case of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest there will plant a leg and then change the law and then disable the commission in its work. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the adoption of this law will be the way to believe it or not, but the adoption of this law will be the way in which Croatia becomes an even more corrupt state, for Croatian society to become even more corrupt. And politicians of the ruling majority, HDZ politicians have even more opportunities to put in their own pocket. And that is the result of this law and that is the wish of the ruling. And let me finish just one review. On Friday, when we discussed the report by the state's chief attorney, when we discussed her request, or the request for her recall, you were not here, so you couldn't metrically discuss it. The one you sent didn't want to get involved in the debate. That's why I'm asking you today and I'm going to ask you again because just the inaction of the state's chief attorney on the principle, the refusal to file an extraordinary legal remedy was a nail that was incarcerated, the last nail that was stuck in the work of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest and one of the reasons why we're asking her to leave. And so I ask you completely legitimately, when today is the topic of debate here, will you or will you ask the attorney general to go or to another reading in this law to provide a mechanism for the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest to go to the Supreme Court when a future Supreme, High Administrative Court in a future situation such as this one with the principles of making a decision that goes in favour of politicians, not in favour of public interest. Dear Mr. Justice and Administration Minister, that's a question that requires a clear and loud answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75911	The next Club of Representatives will be that Mosta, and the honourable representative of Nikola Grmoy will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75912	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. If I were to describe in one sentence or in one word this new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, the first association would certainly be my cynicism. In the course of many old and long-suffering HDZ criminal affairs, as well as those of new ones that are particularly a feature of Plenkovic's HDZ, we are offered here in HS a law full of legal diluents, which is the sole and exclusive goal of diversifying to the end and burying the Committee for Prevention, to decide on a conflict of interest. So I'm going to go straight to the thing that's important elements, the key elements of this new law, and I've already talked about it publicly at the expert meetings ahead of this first reading. First, the law is about so-called. the principles of action contradictory. Under this draft law, we have a situation that, on the one hand, the commission that should be an independent body with a very narrow and specialized task does not give us the opportunity to base our decisions on an article. 5, but after new Art. 6. It establishes, builds and improves ethical standards in the performance of public duties, and then, on the other hand, this bill argues that through the adoption and implementation of ethical codes, many local collective bodies will carry out the principle of the majority. There is no doubt that, as mushrooms after the rain, there will be various ethical courts that will arise in the application of this new law and will be the pendrek and political weapons of the ruling majority at all levels of state government. To be plastic, he who has enough hands will be allowed everything, and he who is a minority will not be allowed anything. And not to say that it is very likely in many cases that such ethical courts will not function at all, as the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest under that first law of 2003, when most of them were MPs in it. politicians. This law will cause legal and ethical chaos, many ethical codes will actually mean that every municipality, city or county sets some of its own standards of ethics in politics, so something that is unacceptable in Zagreb may be fully acceptable and allowed in Split and vice versa. And there will be no one to even that practice. This is about the situation as if, in the system of our judicial authority, we abolish the Supreme Court and say that we are not interested in what the lower level courts in the same cases judge differently, and that there is no supreme independent body that will balance judicial practice. This brings us this new law when it comes to the principles of action in the exercise of public duties, chaos, legal uncertainty, inequality of criteria, inequality of practice and the experience of a political majority over a political minority. And what our HDZ colleagues have to tell us about all this. They'll say that commission per article. 5, i.e. after a new Article. Six can't decide because that's what the administrative courts said. This invaluable legal logic is understandable only to HDZ legal experts, Habian and others, as it exempts HS as the High legislator from the power and jurisdiction of the state authorities, and the legislators become courts. My colleagues and colleagues from the government and HDZ, I don't know how much evidence you need that some things don't work. As you seem to defend this bill equally these days, you defend the position and poor work of the main state attorney, although it is clear to everyone that, on several occasions, here on my issues in HS, she has failed both before the assembly and in front of you and the Croatian public that she knew everything or at least knew about the case of Zalac, and that she has done nothing to bring the case to an end but the entire state in the DORH, so the whole state has actually cast shame, and of course I am the DORH, and not only before the European institutions, but in front of the entire European public. It is a shame, therefore, that our institutions cannot handle certain cases but that European institutions must do your crime that the DORH has protected on your orders. And what are you doing now? You wait for the results of internal surveillance by giving trust to a person who has on several occasions proved to be completely unworthy. So, Minister Malenica, here's the key to the cell phone and our colleague Bacic's calling on the state's chief attorney to make a statement about some speculation, and three days ago, she's a lady. The Croatia of Šipek was here, for 3-4 days she was here in the assembly, and she was openly deluded about what you call speculation. Now you can remind me, of course, and that's your legitimate right to warn why I'm talking about the DORH affair in the context of this law. So I mention it just as a reminder to all of us what will happen if we disenfranchise independent institutions that are tasked with overseeing the work of state and other officials. And in fact, these internal control mechanisms have failed, and the self-regulatory that you are proposing by this bill has great disadvantages and limitations. This law I don't know if it would be good in Norway or Sweden, but here we go, maybe it would have gone where there's a high level of political responsibility and general culture. In Croatia, we must take stronger measures to fight corruption and conflicts of interest, and all officials must submit to strict controls and supervision. So, I criticized this bill of law on punishment that was intended for non-disclosure of documents was foreseen 1,000 kuna you are now this due to these fierce criticisms raised to a sum of 2 to 10,000 kuna, but these are again ridiculous figures. Someone who hides their corruption is not the problem of paying 3 or 5,000 kuna so that he does not deliver documentation like Plenkovic, which I said in the replica he did not provide the documentation from Finland, as the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs does not provide the documentation on the fraud in our embassies or as the DORH does not wish to deliver the anti-corruption council documentation related to these frauds in our embassies. So the fines need to be much sharper and we won't be delivering any documentation. I asked that the minister says the minister can't compare this to the court procedure, etc., but if we want to strengthen the bodies of the prevention of corruption, then we have to give them such powers. And you, with this bill of law, weaken the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, as you have not weakened, but under complete control put the DORH. And I don't see, I don't see how the state's chief attorney will survive this, but this vote on Friday, I don't know how Hrebak will raise his hand for the state's attorney's report. I don't know how Pupović here might know a colleague how the Pupovci will raise his hand for the report...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75913	Let's focus on the subject, now you've gone a little too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75914	...the state's chief attorney, but it's quite clear that this report won't go away, and they even came to me, so after I asked the attorney general that in July at her table in 2021 a report arrived...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75915	My colleague Grumo, I'm asking you nicely to return to the subject, you're getting a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75916	...even some HDZ deputies told me that she can't survive this anymore, but it's not a question of whether this can survive the main state's attorney, it's a question of whether this can survive Andrej Plenkovic, and I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75917	I give you a reminder by subtracting a word from my colleague Grumo, based on Article 240(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75918	Why are you telling me a warning about corruption?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75919	Because I've warned you before, I've let you go very far from the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75920	What am I supposed to go away from corruption?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75921	From the subject, from the topic, and then you went a little too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75922	Dear Vice President, I would like you to go far more than the pockets of Croatian citizens to move as far away as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75923	And I would like you not to discuss with me, based on Article 240(2), I would like to give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75924	Here, so the topic is corruption of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75925	It's not the law to prevent conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75926	...and I'm stuck here, speechless because the vice president is embarrassed to hear about HDZ affairs. I'm sorry, but the truth, the truth knows, the truth can be painful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75927	You continue, you continue to violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75928	The truth about being a painful vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75929	I hope there won't be any injuries to the Rules of Procedure that didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, I beg you nicely. I didn't give you my word, I'll give you my word, do you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure? [[I thank the Vice President...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75930	The Honorable Vice President was injured in Article 238, a colleague of Grmoy insults and demeans Mr. Habib, who is a lawyer by profession, passed a judicial exam unlike all the non-Grmoya Gentiles, and he knows better the law than Mr. Habib.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75931	My colleague Simičević, I am for the sake of, I have given my colleagues a warning to Grumo that your intervention was not necessary and I ask you not to go to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure when they are immaterial. That's nice of you to ask. He's a colleague of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75932	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I know that all you have said is a reminder of your colleague Grbina to a legal expert especially in the area of preventing conflicts of interest, but since he talked about everything, and at least on this subject, I think that the term used by the legal diluter is exactly the best for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75933	Okay, well, totally, completely unnecessary and I repeat I gave a warning, I know why I gave the warning and please don't, there's no need for anyone to point me at it, so I'm going to give you a warning because it was unnecessary, completely. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, it seems to me that only colleague Milanović litre because he is the only one I see here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75934	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we've actually touched a lot of things in replicas, colleagues in front of clubs, I won't repeat too much, but I have a few things to say I just think it's a duty to say here. Last Friday, we discussed the DORH and the report by the state's chief attorney, who is, by all accounts, on the reason of the exit door along with the Director of USKOK. The conclusion I had drawn from the entire debate was actually a confirmation of a known one. And this is that state structures, or state structures, are living in symbiosis with corruption. Now in the animal world, there are several species of symbiosis, one of them is the parasiteism that describes with amazing precision the relationship between individual powerful people and a large part of the economy with state structures from the lowest local levels to the Ban Courts and Pantovich. Corruption, i.e. part of the economy that has been closely linked to state structures, or public finances, is like parasites spreading and destroying our homeland for decades. Corruption that is an unwanted legacy of the former Yugoslavia, chrono-capitalism, i.e. Ornamental or maternity capitalism in Croatia is a standard of business in matters with the state. But we are not the only country with such problems. All post-Communist countries have had or still have the same problems. The difference is that other countries, so-called. The eastern bloc of its economy and its state structures have largely solved this problem. And that is precisely one of the key reasons why all these countries today have significantly higher growth and a better standard of living than Croatia and its citizens. During 2020, excuse me, I can already assume what the ruling will say, which is this, to boast with new growth data of 15.8% of what I congratulate, but they do not want to say that we have had the biggest annual decline in Croatia's history during 2020 and that we have only now returned to some frameworks before the 2009 crisis, meaning we are about 10 years behind the rest of the EU. Poland, for example. That same year, it grew 1.6% in 2009, while the rest of the EU was down 4.5, Croatia, if I'm not mistaken, was about 8%. Today's bill of law, to some extent not enough, aims to solve this problem, but according to the results so far, and this new bill proposal is far from its objective. The shifts in this bill exist, but they are more or less cosmetic. I have to point out here that what should have actually been and what should have been fixed, and that's recording inside property cards around re-purposed land and objects. We should remember the former Minister Kuščević, who was granted a permit in 2011 to build a 77-square barn for breeding poultry and rabbits. However, the changes and additions of the spatial plan of the municipality are soon forbidden to build economic facilities at a distance from the settlement in less than 200 metres as a compensation measure for such facilities and within 200 m from the settlement, the municipal council is making a decision on the correction of the error which all such facilities can be rescheduled into residential, business or building more, mixed, pardon, purposes, of course, that it has failed the public, that it personally asked the council to rescheduled its barn into a residential facility. Eight municipal councilors adopted an amendment to the spatial plan of the Nerežist office unanimously and the former minister soon moved into his recent henhouse. It is not necessary to forget the 4,500 square meters his wife bought for 60 thousand kuna as agricultural land that was refurbished into construction and half of which was sold for even a million and a half kuna, several years later. Just on his example, it is quite clear that the land conversion must be recorded in some way in property cards, my suggestion is that it be more than two years, that it be up to 10 years. To be correct with the rulings, I believe that here should also be reminded of the illegal decision and the initiation of proceedings against Tomislav Karamark, who, in February of this year, the judge of the Constitutional Court in Zagreb annulled all decisions of the Committee on Conflict of Interest because they were illegal and unacceptable from the point of view of legal certainty and the rule of law. Tomislav Karamark's conditional resignation due to an illegal decision by the Commission has compromised the i.e. It has changed the political direction of several Croatian political parties and has brought us today into this position where we are all in, and like a domino, political decisions have fallen under this illegal decision by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75935	It will continue on behalf of the Croatian High Representatives' Club, the respected representative Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75936	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. I have already pointed out on two occasions during this debate one particular problem, which is who controls the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest? Do we have any control here or is that body out of control? And I'm saying this in the context of the administrative court's ruling in the Karamarko case. So, the committee headed by, today's colleague, Dalia Oreshkovic made a decision that Tomislav Karamarko is in conflict of interest. Following a procedure carried out by the Administrative Court, it has been demonstrated that it was not in conflict of interest. But I have to say, here's how interesting it is, how the constructions by the commission can be made by any structure, so I'll remind you, Tomislav Karamarko was accused that his wife worked for a company that worked for the lobbyist INA. So one step, one step, three step, and then there's Karamark's wife. And Karamarko was actually the fifth in a row. So I would dare say that in such a way as Karamarko was politically liquidated, that it is possible for any of us to politically liquidate, anyone. Because everyone at 5, 5, so the chain of credit is for something, everyone in this country. So it was a political execution, and the executioner was a colleague of Oreshkovic. And what's important to mention, which is that then, here it is today, because we have proof that the irrefutable had political ambition. She's not on this side of the assembly but on the side of the assembly means the opposite of the party president that was tried at the time, so someone doesn't think I'm defending HDZ here, but that's a fact. So with her policy today she showed where she was located and nobody mentions it and it's legitimate. Some colleagues will comment that it is not a good thing that the commission is actually doing a good job, but administrative courts are doing a bad job. So, we're not good with the judiciary, and the commission's fine. Why would something be wrong, and the other would be wrong, I will say this, that everyone can make a mistake both in the court and in the commission, but here we have one concrete example, and we are talking about the Committee of Decisions on Conflict of Interest, and I will repeat the example again, the political execution of Tomislav Karamark directed by the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest with the blood type, however you wish, means the executioner Dalia Oreskovic, who spent it all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75937	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Dragana Jeckov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75938	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has recently caused a lot of controversy and concerns all of us MPs, and it seems rather ungrateful to discuss it for the simple reason that we are in some way deciding whether it is ourselves that we will actually be treated by the commission. All of us here will agree that the Committee for Decision-making on Conflict of Interest of our society is, in fact, essential so that, on the basis of universal principles and anti-corruption values, it can influence conscientious action and encourage officials or debtors, as they are called under the new law. Therefore, the aim of the functioning of the commission, but also the application of the law, should primarily be to prevent what the term itself says is preventing the prevention, not punishing conflicts of interest, punishing conflicts in the event of conflicts of interest should naturally be done by someone else. However, what the spear is most broken about is an article. 6. Proposal for a law which does not differ significantly from the current Article. 5. The principles of action are prescribed. Let's be realistic and completely bare things, the question of the principle of action turns out to be a much wider story and de facto directs the work of the commission. In principle, the Commission has been functioning for a long time, making declarative decisions without penalties that, after the decision of the court, the commission would, in fact, be ordered to return to the coverage of the administrative bodies because it was said that the principles of action could not be an independent basis for making a decision but that they should be interpreted together with other infringements under this law. So no more self-application of the principle of action, so the question is, is such an arrangement in line with international standards? When it comes to domestic bodies, of course we are talking about harmonising with the current practice of the administrative courts of the High Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court, and the aim should also be to comply with the law with international standards or recommendations of the Council of Europe’s expert body GRECO and reports on the rule of law of the European Commission. I believe that it is good that this proposal significantly extends the circle of addressees or obligors, so that around 1000 new taxpayers will have to publish their assets in a transparent manner and thus significantly extends the competence of the commission in this segment. Something about re-use of agricultural land into construction land, I've already said something about it in my replica. The bonds could have been made in different ways, so that they could have achieved revenues by re-use of agricultural and similar land in construction, especially as such re-use can provide a significant property benefit. Unfortunately, we have also witnessed abuses of land reuses, which not only have individuals provided significant property benefits, but this considerable property benefit has also been illegal. As a result, it would not be worse to consider introducing a legal standard by which bonds would have to register in a property card such a reuse of land. It may also be good to include the obligation to report and donate real estate and other assets above a certain value over a certain period of time prior to the submission of the property card. It is good to introduce, among other things, the presidents and members of the management of companies in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority stake, and the presidents and members of the management of companies whose majority of companies is owned by the Republic of Croatia and that I do not continue to list it because this way should no longer lead to an unnatural situation that the commission is not competent to decide on a conflict of interest when it comes to persons working in companies whose founder is a state and who have higher incomes than either the Prime Minister or any minister or any official, of course bearing in mind and in the responsibility that belongs to them in that company, therefore, an entirely unnatural situation. An improvement in transparency shall also be made in the papers under which more than 7,000 members of the representative bodies will be obliged to inform the representative body of their ownership interests and business entities which will be required to make that list public. The members of the representative bodies will also have to inform the body of a business relationship with a majority company owned by a local unit. It is certain that the deadlines prescribed by this legislative proposal will certainly affect and prevent a delay in proceedings and it is important to point out that this proposal introduces a preventive mechanism to prevent conflicts of interest, so the bonds will have to declare a potential conflict of interest and exclude themselves from making decisions to the persons to whom they are linked. It's a big newspaper, and this extension of the cooling period, maybe we could still continue there, in a certain sense, but all in all, this law brings a lot of newspapers and at the same time extends in one segment while in another it reduces the scope of the commission's competence. Since the commission has shown itself objectively and impartially in its current functioning, which is certainly what we should and should be and must be careful about cutting jurisdiction so as not to put ourselves in a position to have a body that will turn into an extremely bureaucratic body, so that they will collect property cards from the officials or the debtor, as we now call them in this new legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75939	Next on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, a respected representative of Stephen Nikola Bartulic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75940	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and my fellow MPs. Before I look back on this bill, I think it is still necessary to clarify the different forms of conflict of interest. First of all, we're talking about public duties and their obligations. However, we have different phenomena that are also a conflict of interest. For example, when in the evening on TV shows so-called Independent analysts interpret the political scene and what is happening, while having companies working for individual political options and hiding it. Therefore, this obligation to publish in a transparent manner everything the public and the public should know goes much wider and is unfortunately not respected in Croatia. So it's usually a hidden interest here, a fact that the public should know, and the person in question doesn't share it in public. However, this is primarily about public officials' obligations at all levels. A well-known American economist and Nobel laureate Milton Friedman shared a very interesting observation about this topic. He said the following, each economy is capitalist, the only difference to how much the government controls capital, and in Croatian case, that control is very large. So I will remind myself that the share of the total state is therefore not only the budget of the total state but also when the public companies whose leaders are appointed by the government, that percentage of GDP is more than 60%, which is a very large share and shows to what extent politics influence not only the real economy of our lives, so a large percentage of Croats are indirectly or directly dependent on that consumption. So, it's very important to keep in mind when we talk about this issue because the space for abuse of power at all levels is very large and no law can really solve it until certain reforms are implemented, so until the state and its role are reduced we consider in the Homeland Movement or the perfect law won't solve these various forms of abuse, or conflict of interest to prevent. So, for example, we go to the local level of local self-government, so unfortunately we see that the generator of corruption, for some it will be a space for new employment, especially for HDZ members and their partners. So the constitution says we're all equal before the law, but in practice it's far from true. We all know, especially in smaller areas, that the membership card opens up great opportunities that other citizens do not have. Not to say what it is, which others have mentioned about the impact on new spatial plans and the like where the trade influence is quite clear, unfortunately, sometimes it is revealed, but often it is not revealed. So I mentioned earlier in the replica the recent resignation of the Austrian prime minister who was suspected of trying to influence public change through pressures on polling agencies and in other ways he had to leave. I asked Minister Malenica a question I didn't get unfortunately an adequate answer, he's not in the assembly right now. So in Croatia, there is a practice that public companies so owned by the state buy quite every year a large media space and ask why, for example, HEP which is de facto having a monopoly position in Croatia, almost 90% of the electricity market is in the hands of HEP why it has, why this company has the need to isolate so much in advertising, and we know that HEP leaders are appointed by the government. So it's not about European projects or anything like that, but first of all, it's about indirectly speaking about the impact on the media environment in Croatia, and it can be seen from the plane that where editors and journalists should and could be much more critical, they're not and I'm just guessing why that is. Not to mention the instructions everyone received at the beginning of the pandemic when they appeared in the Ban Courts to get directions from the prime minister that the Croatian public should be informed about the Corona virus and the like. So this line between the government and certain media houses and the interest that intertwined there is a big space for this one, for, for this topic, actually for conflict of interest and abuse of power. Sometimes it hides, sometimes it doesn't hide at all. We have a whole, whole new, new topic, new area of pandemic business. I asked Minister Berosa's public question about the price of rapid antigen tests why in our institutions it was over 100 kuna and health homes and last week after the topical told me that he had reached an agreement to still make the price 50 kuna. But why was it such a difference, why has it been put up with all this time? So he had various situations where someone has an interest in taking advantage of the trouble we all pay as Croatian citizens, we all pay for it. So the conflict of interest has different faces, it appears in different ways and we need to talk about it openly, and unfortunately, as experience shows our institutions are not sufficiently free to process all these cases from, from local to state level. That experience has shown for years. Now we have this current state in the DORH, I won't talk too much about it, but it shows that this thesis that our institutions are trapped by ruling structures that can easily influence in various ways stands, is unfortunately, I think you see it every day. However, I mentioned in fact this membership card and that we are not all equal in Croatia, especially when it comes to various employment tenders in some local environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75941	Comrade Bartulica, let's get back to the subject, please, of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75942	Here's what I'm trying to explain here, but let me just... Yeah, yeah. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] So about this legal proposal here, I'll try to narrow down this exposure, Mr. Reiner warned me that I've gone a little too far, but I think it's still relevant everything I've said. However, there seems to be an article 5 that tells me how officials should declare their duty, honorably, transparently, in a fair way, that there should be no bargaining and the like. In Croatia, I think that practice is so widespread that citizens are a little used to it. This shows the results of this election to the mayor in Međimurje where I was Mr. Posavec who admitted to taking the money in one case prevailing. So this is one phenomenon quite said negative, that a large part of the Croats simply get used to it and then officials know or practice to what extent they can simply go politically that they do not change practice unfortunately. So the Homeland Movement is not going to be able to support this proposal for a number of reasons, and I think we need to talk a lot more and more honestly about this issue all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75943	Thank you, thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75944	Good afternoon, everyone. The problem with this law is certainly to weaken the role and power of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest from the qualifications of the members or president of the commission to the fact that, itself, the supervision of some violations of the law is not appropriate, I certainly agree with colleagues who have said that even the level of penalties for violations of the law is not adequate from 2 to 10 thousand kuna. But I would especially point out one element only mentioned here by my colleague Maric, which is that in the draft law under the pressure of the lobby has given up the stricter control of doctors in the public sector. According to the existing provision, the director, the deputy director and assistant director of a health institution should not work at the same time in a public and private institution, but according to the first version of this law, there should also be the representatives of clinics, the head of clinical institutions and the heads of the institutes of some, institutions and some health institutions, and this is obviously thrown out under the pressure of the lobby. So other than what we're stressing as the content of this law and the problems of this law at last means this law as a bad thing has to be entered into certain specifics and seen what's actually been expelled, and it was in the first version, and here I'm going to try to show that there's a very visible impact of lobbys. It is unacceptable, in fact, and it ruins our health system that public sector doctors work in the private sector and use the private sector, use the public sector as a specific infrastructure pool for their private practice so that when their private practice strengthens the leaders, here with fellow Bartulic, it is a pity that it is not here, critics that the public sector is a problem, and the private sector should only be able and then our private sector will be able to breathe in such a way. This was an opportunity means that especially in the crown, especially during the epidemic period, doctors working in the public sector are prevented, while at the same time in the private sector using the public sector as infrastructure for their own wealth. So that's, hopefully, until the second reading that he won't agree to this type of blackmail and that'll come back. So the head of the clinic, the head of the clinics, the head of the clinics, and the heads of some medical institution, it's very important to return, so to notice that this type of pressure also shouldn't be good, it shouldn't be acceptable, and I'm going to point out that this type of pressure lobby that's obviously powerful, so when I'm talking about a doctor's lobby, it's obviously a powerful lobby is often quite visible unlike some initiatives that come from those that are so, so to say weaker groups like, say, workers in Croatia who really are weaker groups. They're not being listened to at all, so they're not being treated at all as interlocutors, so I've asked the chief state attorney a question about Kras and the application that came out of it means from the firm. The DORH received a report, she told me that it was not true that it was not followed by that report, that the DORH had begun to follow that application at 6 months last year, but it had been a year and a half, which happened, nothing. Another lobby that responded to this law, which I say, although it is bad to enter the articles themselves and see what it actually brings, and brings some changes to local administration and self-government, we have seen the reaction meaning of local HDZ leaders and we have learned from the media that local HDZ leaders via Ante Sanader, as their spokeswoman, say that some elements still move away, move away from this law, and here we have heard that our president, Jandrokovic, has stood with Ante Sanader, to make it a little easier for those local leaders and to put them in a more favourable position, but it is reportedly transferred by Plenkovic because some of these changes were put into the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. But there was, in particular, a dispute over the rules for this extended so-called. the cooling period means when the representative or when, now it is called the obligor, or before it was the official to step down from his duty or his duty to complete that cooling period to be longer. But it's not weird, is it? It's not weird that Ante Sanader is the one who's carrying it. He is known as the mentor of Notor Vinko Zulim Virulica, unfortunately from my region of origin from Seget, where Ante, where Vinko Zulim Virulica ruled for no more than 28 years to be replaced by him now, or he gave up his next candidacy, and otherwise he was known to eat in the assembly as a council representative who didn't speak a word, unless we count those words he spoke to me at the coffee shop at the beginning of the first day of the meeting when he shouted that my ancestors were butchers spoke about partisans. So this Virulica 28 years in Seget, now means a few days ago there's a new scandal, a new scandal that shows that we actually have to ask the question of how far the law's reach is, how much this law can even regulate such things and whether it's meant to regulate such things. So after the man no longer means the head of the municipality, he has his alter ego to say so to the new man who is doing everything this guy did, Ivo Sorić, and he's bringing here to the town hall, or the municipal assembly, he's making a new, new scandal, so this son of Vinka Zulu got a concession on the maritime good the other day, and councilmen sent me, some councilmen sent me that decision to concession my colleague and fellow naval good for the landing water never heard what it would mean, in fact, a concession on the maritime good for a special use of 20 years to build a coastal discharge. And I think this is very much about what I'm saying. [[We can go back to the law, please.]] So if we have a situation like this, then the question is whether this law can at all have any intensity, and we heard from the legislator that it has the intensities to deal with manipulations at local level that are quite present and that the public knows them, whether they're going to do it at all. [[You've gone a little hard again.]] So, if we have such a scandal in Seget a few days ago, I don't think we'll be able to expect something like that to be regulated in this law, or I asked the minister himself, so he didn't answer me thinking about how he'd regulate himself and how he could even regulate himself and whether he meant to regulate things like this. But here you may agree more with me, not only are HDZ officials interested in loose rules for local leaders, and I must say that in anti-corruption policies really important, but when we hear who's talking about them then we really need to get our heads together, so Father Ivan Penave bought huge agricultural land, he happened to find out that the road is being built there and that the country's land will be bought for big money, earned on it, what can I say are mostly all of the Homeland Pardon property movement that we have to say on Škor, which is now talking about the software and the affairs of Žalac, so Škoro has received more than 159 million kunas from Bandic through the contract in the 9th year, but I also warn you...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75945	Comrade Peović, let's go to law, please, don't, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75946	I'll be back here, so it's really important. I'm also warning you how...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75947	I understand your political driver why, why you're doing something, but we're still going about preventing conflicts of interest, about the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75948	All right, today, everything, you're warning everyone today, but I need to tell you why examples are important. Why is this law here? Well, that law isn't here to tell me about some abstract situations, this one's the law so we can regulate specific situations. And what I want to tell you with this particular example means the Bandic and the software that Skoro sells at 9. Bandic, if that's even corruption, that's the problem. So we have regular contracts where Skoro 9 years old. He gets you, we all know it's because he was good with Bandic, because it's Miroslav Skoro, but we can't prove corruption to him and that's why I'm skeptical of reaching anti-corruption... Not only that, not only that we can't prove corruption, but now we have a situation with the Pripuza that we all know has been creating a monopoly for years through public budget parasites, but the thing is that it really created a monopoly and that's why I have a skeptic that's determined according to reach and possibilities means anti-corruption policies because simply some people have created a monopoly for various reasons. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75949	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75950	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's the basic question being raised when it comes to fighting corruption is why do we still not have a separate property origin law? This law waits for Croatia for 30 years, it could sanction and prevent many corruption activities which unfortunately do not run out from the top of the government, and consequently, unfortunately, to the lowest levels. Notorized conversion and privatisation, which left hundreds and hundreds of thousands of workers on the road, spilled public goods into private pockets, remained nailed in the famous "whom he pitted, pitted". Surely you heard the one "just don't ask me for the first million, everything else is legal", how many first millions were left in the pockets of those resourceful, I call them resourceful because in Croatian it's long ago the verb to steal replaced by the one you manage well. It hasn't tried to process them, it hasn't tried to sanction them, it's all out of date, it can't now after so many years and all the other excuses and twists that already hurt our ears and corruption wildly in our beautiful. Of course, it's about fighting corruption, it's about action plans, strategies, but there's no law on the origin of property, that it's not a simple law to have proof of how you've gained, by your work, by your inheritance, by denationalization, either way, just show and prove it and it's really not complicated, but it's not that. No government in Croatia has built it and proposed a parliament for adoption. From this perspective, the fact that the Law on the Termination of the Law on the Study of Origin of Assets and the confiscation of illegally acquired property since 11.5.1990 was part of and the beginning of the great theft of public goods that followed in the conversion and privatisation of the 1990s and continued until the day of today on whether I must mention the notorious case Zalac as the last example. Why am I talking about the Law of Origin of Assets? Because I consider it a base to be based on the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. We have before us a new bill that brings some good shifts, primarily I mean, the expansion of those who become bonds of this law, especially in the local environment where corruption and nepotism have flourished for 10 years. But at first, we have an art. Six, which lists the principles. It is nice to read the truth in Croatia, sounds a little fairy tale, but it is less nice that the commission cannot act in the event of a breach of these principles although GRECO specializes in the Anti-Corruption Body of the Council of Europe, so GRECO recommended strengthening the conductivity of art. Six, but obviously there's not enough political will to do that. They are, according to the minister, linked to specific violations of the provisions of the law, but I fear that we are weak in this, and it strengthens the practice of our courts that are taking away the commission of power to decide on the violation of the principle of action in the conduct of duty. You know, honorably, honestly, consciously, responsibly, impartially, maintaining your own credibility and dignity and citizens' trust. Therefore, it is concluded that our courts protect officials or debtors from this law and before, and against the commission's efforts to prosecute those who are dishonest, dishonest, unconscious, irresponsible, without their own credibility, without dignity. For nothing, GRECO makes recommendations, this law euthanises the commission, and thus combats corruption. Let us remember that just now, Prime Minister Plenkovic has asked to be questioned whether this body has the authority to decide on a breach of the principle of duty. It is devastating that the high administrative court in the case of the Notor Bandić in 2020 completely changed its case law and suddenly ruled that the commission had misread its powers and that it could not be called by the official for violation of the principle of action despite the diametrically contrary rulings before that. Again, Bandic, as he often appears, is so close to HDZ and Bandic and Plenkovic. That's why there's no more in this bill, we have great principles, but there's no way of processing violations of those principles. Not including GRECO's recommendations, the government has made it clear that it has decided to make the commission harmless and unnecessary. Property cards, in order to keep away from the introduction of a provision requiring all gift contracts at least five years before the entry into service to confirm that the property has not been transferred to adult children or perhaps parents or can be introduced into property cards and parents as well, because we agree, it is simple to transfer everything to children through gift contracts, without any taxes, because it does not mean completely free of charge and shows in the property card that nothing is owned. All the poor to the poor, and the little children, oh, they have companies, they have hotels, they have terrains, they've all gotten it by the age of 25 to 30, really talented and extremely capable children. In e-Consultation, it is a wonderful example of the lack of an elemental will to deal with corruption by the surprise of the legislator on the proposal to enter into the property card both the purpose and the change of purpose of land, precisely from agricultural to construction. They respond, I quote, "It is not clear what you should indicate information about turning agricultural land into building land," it is not clear, so I don't know if you are serious. I don't think it's clear? If I have to, I'll explain. In fact, this data points to theft, big theft because overnight the value of several euros per square is changing into several hundred euros per square, so I hope now you understand why it would be necessary to enter the property card. Whether it should be stressed that it is necessary to clearly separate party activities and to finance them from the officials' activities in order, for example, to. made it impossible for a government plane to travel to the expense of taxpayers, a party delegation to a party meeting in Helsinki. Such behavior should certainly be sanctioned. Plenkovic refused to provide the commission with the necessary documents, travel orders, etc. This proposal would punish me with 2,000 kuna, and that's all. Well, it's not much. I mean, a trip to Helsinki for a whole team of party buddies for 2,000 kuna, convenient. So he pays a fine of 2,000 kuna, doesn't have to deliver... this paperwork and everything's fine. So we advocate that any misuse of public money is recorded and sanctioned for party purposes. Finally, it is necessary to bring into the work on the second reading the recommendations of GRECO that the violation of the principle of action is a key provision of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, public finances and resources from parties, under the obligation to include adult children and parents or gift contracts that preceded the mandate, as well as changes of agricultural land to building land, and then we will believe that the Government really wants to deal actively with corruption. Without it, it's just a few more papers, and corruption will continue its devastating rampage in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75951	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Krunoslav Katičić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75952	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the introduction on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club that we will accept and support the proposed Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the text in which it is now proposed. Of course, this law is causing a lot of public interest, so here's why you'd give a little perspective on maybe one other side that hasn't touched so far in the debate. In particular, any legislative proposal shall be accompanied by a table showing the observations and the interested public, in particular the professionally called public consultation procedure from which it is concluded and see that 128 observations have been received from which 52 were accepted or partially accepted. More specifically, the comments came mainly from persons whose area of action is narrow, such as the Commission itself, to decide on a conflict of interest, GONG and other persons, both legally and physically. Careful analysis shows that a number of... all these actors were implemented in this legislative proposal, from which the Commission itself was also accepted or partially accepted. The proposed text of the law also includes all recent judicial decisions concerning the work of the Commission, initiated by the Constitutional Court and the decision of administrative or senior administrative courts. The legislative proposal in question also includes and is in line with the recent case law which will significantly further cause the conduct of the body itself to be legally implemented by this law. The same should be pointed out, although this has already been mentioned several times in the debate, that it includes almost all the comments and suggestions made by GRECO, which gives this legislative proposal additional strength and clarity. I also need to, I would like to point out as follows: The Proposer's representative stated that in this Bill proposal, compared to the current, envisaged significant improvements in several areas. The address of the Law has been extended, additional obligations have been imposed on the obligors to declare conflict of interest, selected participation in the decision-making process. Improving in the context of property cards and performing other business with public importance. The arrangements for restrictions shall be significantly improved after the public duties themselves have been carried out. I will stand by the rights of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, set out in more detail the provisions of the procedure at the Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest and to amend them in terms of equating with the rules governing the overall administrative procedure, and a more advanced improvement of the sanctioning system itself. As far as I'm concerned, one of the important innovations is precisely what is now being introduced by the Institute of Conduct in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Procedure, which gives all participants, participants and parties in the process of additional instruments to exercise their rights, to demonstrate those facts which, with certain principles, apply in a way transparently. In addition, as already stated, the censusing of the principle of action set out in Article 6 of the present Law proposal is also being held during the debate. There's something I've been talking about in terms of expressing a break in that part. Namely, the text itself of the existing provisions of Article 5 precisely for all of these forward reasons is al literally, not quite literally, one word is changed from "obligor" to "mandator" entirely and remains the same provision that has been so far only changed the article, not anymore art.5 but is an art. Six. Of course, all subsequent provisions are detailed in the application of this principle and, as it is stated, it is the law that this principle, the legal principle that exists in all the laws and in the procedural, apply in a material legal way in accordance with what is legal and relevant. Tie him to a specific legal code that's somewhere later in the law. Furthermore, it should be said that in one text which was held during the discussions and in the talks, the provisions of Article 53 should be reviewed. A proposal in relation to the behaviour of the obligor in accordance with the provision of Article 23 of the proposed Law. Of course, given the meaning and purpose of that sanctioning. Finally: This new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest should also be observed through the prism of other legal, sublegal or governmental decisions relating to the area of anti-corruption measures. Unfortunately, it is less known in the public that the mandates of both these governments and parliaments have taken a number of decisions, as well as legislative and sublegal acts and strategies, and a number of concrete instruments have been introduced that aim to reduce the potential of corrupt activities. We are primarily thinking about and thinking about the recently adopted Anti-Corruption Strategy by the end of 2030, then subsequently but earlier, but it is quite important that the whole picture be understood to understand the adopted corporate governance code, a compliance function has been introduced in commercial societies in the predominantly or majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia, which is one of the novelties in the Western European and all countries. The following period is also followed by the implementation of OECD guidelines for the management of trade societies and all of this is clearly and unequivocally written in the National Resistance and Recovery Plan. These are all government strategic documents and are publicly available as such. Therefore, the pressure of the ruling party's corrupt character is unfounded. On the contrary, these documents and facts make it clear that both these governments and the Parliament's majority zero tolerance rates on corruption and on any form of corrupt activity. It is precisely by adopting the implementation of these instruments and acts that proves it. I repeat, therefore, that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposed law in question, and I hope that until the second reading, the recommendations presented will be discussed, and those constructive will be included in the existing Legislative Proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75953	The next Club of Representatives will be the Social Democrats in the name of the respected representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75954	Dear Vice President of the Parliament how nice the zero degree of tolerance to corruption sounds, but as our people would say, it's more important who speaks than they say. And at first, let's ask ourselves today who is proposing this Law? So it's proposed by the government whose head is the man who employed his family at Dubrovnik Airport. So isn't that hypocritical? It is proposed by the government whose ministers drive and fly on tycoon yachts. Isn't that hypocritical, too? It is proposed by the government driving with a state plane to a party meeting in Finland from which 14 ministers had to leave in the past term because of suspicion of corruption and unfortunately what is now dominant in the media, it is also proposed by the Government that in this affair there seems to be a vague connection and a role in hiding the affair itself and that is what I asked the minister today and what he has not answered me so far. So that is, it is impossible that the minister in the Croatian government has no position, no answer to the question and that he does not want to talk about something that can be undermined under conflict of interest, and we talk about conflict of interest and talk about it. Another important context is when this Law is proposed. So this law is proposed at the moment when we are taught a lesson by the European Prosecutor and OLAF, an agency that controls the spending of EU funds, which, in the case of the Zalac, or the Software affair, seems to be all clear. The only one who wasn't clear is the DORH. And there's trying to complete responsibility to overload and unload to the state's attorney, who's responsible, unequivocally, but the question is, is she the only one responsible? It is also a great responsibility for the Prime Minister to whom she is already the third state attorney, i.e. the state's attorney in office. But when an affair appears according to the method seen so far, he runs away from that responsibility. So much for fighting corruption. So according to the media, USKOK Director Vanja Marusic admitted that the DORH had made a mistake not delivering the case to the European Prosecutor's Office, but neither she nor her head of Gold Hrvoj-Sipek explained why they had not delivered it, while in the media, girls had different information about a meeting where they decided not to process it anymore. Then, in the meantime, the chief state attorney tries to replace Vanju Marusic and is under surveillance without anyone asking what happened to the other ministers from the government, and there were all 14 who had to leave because of suspicion of corruption and their cases. Because, beware of the miracles, Gabriela Zhalac was not prosecuted by the DORH, but was prosecuted by just the European prosecutor on the order of OLAF and every day in the media by new facts due to the suspension of the investigation against Zalac, I am openly asking here a question that no one has answered to me today, were there attempts to stop the investigation against Zalac, against Gabriela Žalac, which the Prime Minister continues to praise? That's the question. It's getting the impression that actually protecting her, he's protecting himself. I can't conclude anything else because it looks like a lot of cats here today got their tongue. But let's get back to the bill. I will remind you that in the conduct of public duty, officials must not put their private interest above public interest. That's really how it should be. There is a conflict of interest where the private interests of officials are contrary to the public interest, and especially when the private interest of the official affects his impartiality in the exercise of public duty and then we have the fact that the Prime Minister himself is in the process of the affair, Žalac praises the former minister and my question now is whether this may not be a conflict of interest or direct influence on the work of the judiciary, not to say, abuse of office and authority. The Law clearly states that officials in the conduct of public duties must act with honor, fair, conscientious, responsible, impartiality, safeguarding their own credibility, dignity, entrusted duties and citizens' trust. My question, after all these affairs, is the Government headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic even able to identify himself in this bill? And if anyone should lose people's trust, then that's exactly what they are and that's where we come to the taste of the law itself, so this bill of law is purely cosmetic. He's exclusively an alibi law. It is a law that can in fact be subdued under classical spin because it will not affect either the prevention of conflicts of interest and will absolutely change nothing in the functioning of nor the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest or in the system itself. But if the law explicitly defines what a conflict of interest is, other than who it refers to, so who is the addressee, which is dedicated to most of the amendments to this Law and if the penalties would be more rigorous, such as the responsibility that could cover both the resignation of office and the greater fines, then they could only expect more serious shifts in the fight against corruption. But unfortunately these are examples of rare personal responsibilities of rare individuals in Croatian politics. They're actually an exception that confirms the rule, and the rule is that those responsibilities, personal responsibilities are almost gone. And that is why power should be the only means that in Croatia can help our people to live with dignity, to help every man, not the means to enrich individuals in office. Priorities to the actions of parliamentary representatives, the priorities of people who directly influence the processes and the priorities of the Social Democrats Club, because they can say this in front of us, is strengthening and protecting independent institutions of supervision. This is a clearer definition of the role and powers of the Commission itself to decide on a conflict of interest and to strengthen the institution itself. There is, of course, the provision of expertise, not the similarity of employment in state-owned enterprises, public enterprises or in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. Our task should be to be true fighters against corruption, against conflicts of interest because corruption and conflict of interest are eating up our society. Today, citizens have simply become so indifferent that they don't care what happens around them, big affairs, just as if they've raised their hands from it, and they don't really think anything can change. And in this way, when they put their heads down, when they move their heads and they just stare at corruption, at all the negativity that happens in our society, this way simply puts the future of Croatia, the future of all of us, and the future of our children, and that's what the basic point of this story is. So the time has come for citizens to finally work this way, these affairs, corruption under normal condemnation, but in the elections and that is something that will probably be a key turning point in fighting corruption because corruption must not become normal, it must not become socially acceptable, and even less must become a lifestyle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75955	On behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the next member of parliament Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75956	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Listening today during the day of the debate of most opposition political parties' clubs, listening to their replicas and asked questions, I conclude that the commission has been since 2013. when formed as a permanent professional independent state body and to date, it has achieved significant results in understanding the concept of conflict of interest and establishing a mechanism for preventing them. This is extremely important, so all relevant opposition MPs have noticed what this does not have in the new proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and what the consequences may be in the anti-corruption system. The Croatian public must also know that the results of the work of the commission are from 2013 to 2018. have been praised by all relevant international institutions, by the World Bank, by GRECO, by the Regional Anti-Corruption Initiative, all our committee has highlighted as an example of good practice. It should also be said that reports by the Commission on the conflict of interest have been submitted from 2013-2018. with a big acclaim adopted here at HS and supported even by the HDZ Club. Therefore, dear HDZ colleagues, every single one of your personal attacks on me means that you're jumping into your own mouth. The very fact that no new report calls on committees submitted for 2018, 2019 and 2020 So it's not on the agenda, it shows your shame and your cowardice. Furthermore, what I'm saying is, I don't think it's a problem that after I stopped acting as chairman of the committee, I think professionals should go into politics in order to put their knowledge into public policy. It is a dispute when politicians enter the area of resolving conflict issues of interest, without having absolutely no knowledge of it, let alone competence and morality. It is also disputed that when only on the basis of a party card, there is a function in a public legal body, especially when it comes to the head of independent institutions, it is also controversial when law enforcement authorities obstruct investigations and favour powerful HDZ politicians, even to the level of ministers, and perhaps beyond that, when the President of the Constitutional Court with powerful HDZs enjoys fish and wine. Much has been said today about the principles of action, I will be very happy, very happy to collect the laurels and credits for what the Commission for the decision on conflict of interest has been engaged in making practices based on the principle of action, although it is fair to say that all decisions on violations of the principle of action have been made by one collective body and have been confirmed for years by both first-degree courts and by the High Court of Justice. The only purpose of amending the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is that the principles of action and the possibility of the commission to determine that their infringement has been removed from the law and thus the role and power of the commission as a preventive anti-corruption body has disappeared. There is no greater misery for the Republic of Croatia than the fact that HDZ as a political party legally convicted of corruption, takes the right to pass any anti-corruption law, let alone one of the most important or to touch anything that has to do with the justice system. But good. There is a big difference between ethical principles and some administrative rules. We can come up with administrative rules however we want, and they're different for different brands, so ethics is different for different professions. The whole new National Strategy to combat corruption that you have praised as some kind of new revolution is based on these ethical principles, and now we are going to implement them in the whole system, and there is a good part of it already. We have ethical codes for civil servants, which means that someone violates the ethical principles of every employee, here for colleagues working here at HS can determine and determine. We have ethical codes and the Ethics Committee for State Lawyers, so we've seen one such decision on the example of the former chief state attorney of the Masons, so he hasn't broken the administrative rule, he's violated ethics and morals and delontology of the state's attorney profession. We also have the Ethics Commission for Judges. So more or less everyone in the system will be subjected to checks and by determining that there have been some ethical principles other than politicians or to correct myself, now such injuries will not be able to determine the only body that has had expertise, competence and the ability to make such decisions. Instead of one truly independent body that has been recognised by both international institutions and by the Croatian public, you have now come up with something else in HDZ, now every corrupt HDZ shush will be able to say at local or national level what is a conflict of interest and violation of ethical principles other than an independent institution. What will it look like in practice when the Code of Ethics of Assembly is finally adopted? Let's say we have some sort of constituency ethical commission, here I immediately suggest that in this commission they be Bačić, Boric and counterpart Reiner, so they will decide what is a conflict of interest and who of us MPs put their private interest above the public. And since we have a lot of parliamentary deputies who often find themselves, for example, under which corruption indictments live, I'm curious about when your parliamentary majority will be thin, will you ask that such a parliamentary representative be exempted from the decision-making process? That's your ethics and that's your integrity. But let's just say it's so far-fetched that now you've introduced a rule that every municipality, every city, every county has its own ethical code and your ethical commission, you've spent some form of decentralisation, I guess the only one you've managed to come up with and implement so far. But let's also say some of your other words that start with D. Let's say something about digitization because it was mentioned here that now will improve the property card verification system by putting up with each year. Therefore, the dear HDZ commission introduced an electronic property card form as early as 2015 and linked the commission database to the databases of all state bodies. What was missing was the lack of a procedure to come up with a check that should be prescribed by law, and this was told to you by the Constitutional Court back in 2012, obviously that decision of the old Constitutional Court decision none of you read at all, I don't know younger than the Minister of Justice whether at the time he was even aware of this kind of innovation in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. So, as far as progress in the process of verifying the property cards, there is simply no such thing, so from digitization neither does D, even though the commission has tools for that long ago. What about depoliticization? So one of the most important powers to say so to the committee was that so far absolutely all the sessions were public. The Commission’s decisions were also public and were all published on the Commission’s website where they stand today. Publicity, someone has asked who controls the commission, the public of their colleagues HDZ, the public, is what you sotto fruits are abolishing by this law because you introduce the possibility in Article 44(3) that the committee will, by discretion, decide that some session will not be public when it comes to a powerful politician and that the decision taken in this case will not be made public on the website of the commission. And who do you even give the right to make such a discreet decision? Therefore, the 2012 Constitutional Court's old decision also said that, given the role that the Commission should have in the anti-corruption system, the members of the commission should still have some expertise. So we should know international practice, be certified in the domain as a legal domain of conflict of interest, and instead of you raising the criteria for members of the commission, you have now come up with that even the president of the commission no longer has to have a judicial exam. So it's enough that an ordinary lawyer, who may have been employed somewhere on a counter, was pounding stamps so he could stamp the last seal into the senselessness of the existence of this body. That's the level, that's the extent of these amendments to the law proposed by HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75957	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak with a respected representative, Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75958	Dear Vice President, Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs a good day's welcome to all, so what I can say about this topic that we are discussing today is that one topic that should be something very positive, something very good, something where we show that we are ready to direct certain processes in Croatian society and show that the political elite can change but unfortunately sometimes in life is everything and a matter of timing and perhaps happiness. This topic, as well as the debate on anti-corruption laws, comes into the public eye in the midst of the canonda which we have about the DORH case, the USKOK case, which has been spilled through Gabriela Žalac, through small Agrokor, through great Agrokor, and of course when it all is summed up and taken away, and when people look at everything that happened every day in these cases where there is a reasonable doubt that someone has used their function to protect, let's call it so, large fish whether from the world of politics, whether from the world of business, whether from the world of the prosecutor's office because we also have the passing of certain names from the world of the prosecution in the case of Dragan Kovacevic on the case of Agrokor, this is all we are talking about how much we will reach ordinary citizens and how strong this message about this one change that we should be. When we talk about the Commission for Conflict of Interest here we have an interesting situation that the previous president of HDZ Tomislav Karamarko has actually come out of politics because of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest while Andrej Plenkovic in his current term, and let's say on that wave he took over HDZ and then the government, did everything he could in some stages of his life and his political power could do to elevate and reduce the impact of the Commission itself to prevent conflicts of interest. And after all that's happened, after all the possible legal entanglements that have been introduced to avoid any decision by the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest Minister Malenica as well as when talking about anti-corruption has been tasked with seeing what from that salad, it can collect from that cabbage, which perhaps from that broken trust and broken institutions can return, which can respect and prepare certain bill proposals for people to at least as much as they act drunkly and that people as much as possible to change something. What I can say as a commendation to the minister himself and his team is evident from the public consultation that much has been accepted and that, nevertheless, the profession has been listened to. But because of what I said at the beginning, because of everything that's happening these days, it's not something that should satisfy us, and what else should satisfy the general public, and what should be that clear and key message that we're changing and that we want to change things for the better because in these changes that I'm going to say again, there's a lot that wants to be fixed and wants to change there are some questionnaires that are going to stay on the road, starting with us spreading a lot of who are the bonds of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, and yet some directors and directors have missed us. It's an interesting situation to introduce this now for HRT director, and two months ago, we had a discussion about his conflict of interest. Also, when we talk about how people change in public administrations, we have a situation where if you're a politician and a official for 18 months, you're willing, and for those who are politically appointed by the government through your political bodies, that's not the case. So we're going to have a further rotation of those directors we had because that doesn't apply to them. As regards the spread to law, members and members of representative bodies and so on. decentralisation in this system, it is something that is commendable, would only draw attention to what sanctions are, which is punishment, and in what terms will be punished and leaving one model that each JLS can also question what the ethical code is and how it looks at it because of the dead all the best, we can only imagine what it would look like in the city of ala Varazdin or in the city of Rijeka or in the city of Osijek, and how it might look in the city of Zagreb when it was run by Milan Bandić. So, despite my good intentions, I'm going to repeat again that everything that happens about corruption, the perceptions of the judiciary and the desire for political elites to change for the better, I'm afraid this is not enough to change after which we will be able to say to people that we have done our best to restore faith in the institutions and to return faith in politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75959	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75960	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Coliga Jaksic, you spoke in one part of your exposure as did the predecessors when speaking on behalf of the club about some of the recent examples we have from both the past and the present. One of the most interesting examples is the example of Mrs. A regret where it's being debated in a $13.5 million area and we're also this law that we're talking about today in our first reading about what it is, which is the possibility of a gift and everything else, but I would go back to that 13.5 million kuna. At one point I went to calculate, 13.5 million kuna is someone who works 40 years. You'd have a $28,000 salary or someone who worked 40 years. and has a salary of ten thousand kuna in 40 years. I'd make $4 million, 800 thousand. So that relationship, that context...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75961	Thank you very much, thank you very much, I ask that we stick to the subject, so the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Here you are, dear representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75962	Now I'm going to have to figure out what my colleague Mrak-Taritash wants to ask me to do, but now if you wanted to joke in that tough liberal capitalism, it would be called a gold parachute or someone prepared a very nice severance for the day they wouldn't sit in a chair anymore, and maybe it was being led by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest not being able to work for a while in some systems where they might want to work. It's certainly not a good message, it's safe when people who live from month to month with 5-6 thousand kunas and when they see what's going on and what's obviously still going on around this case that they can really just close their eyes and hope that it's not true, but when the morning comes, it shows that it's true and let's hope that this is also one of the triggers that start to change things. I'm not going to be mean now, I'm going to try to remain optimistic that all of this that has happened to the involvement of European judicial authorities will be one warning and perhaps one of the last opportunities for us to change as a state and society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75963	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75964	Ethics should ideally complement policy or be its prerequisite. I fear that the intensity of this proposed law is to replace the right and not to supplement the policy, because the right to propose clear sanctions while ethics is, in that sense, a more fluid space which, depending on who will adopt such codes, can result in the persecution of different and political inexperiences. You started talking about how ethical codes might look different depending on who they are, in which part of Croatia they bring. Do you have any more concrete examples of the wrong ways of exploiting ethical codes and institutions of the ethical code that you can interpret if we pass such a law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75965	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75966	Well, that should be a 30-year debate right now. Croatian policy history because if we compare ourselves with other countries, especially those in the EU longer than we do, we have cases where ministers and governments fall for mistakes in travel orders, housing, the use of apartments on the burden of the state, and we have a situation that when you are under suspicion and under serious investigation first defends the presummation of innocence, then, if they really do, they say that we simply go on and forget them. So in Croatia, how ethics were interpreted and how these ethical codes were looked upon, unfortunately, could write a book, and I also mentioned in my debate that I simply think that what we are discussing today and that it will likely be adopted in some future period will not be enough and it is not the ultimate path that we can say that we have a clear ethical code in which then we will know which line is not allowed to cross in politics after which public functions are no longer to be performed, and in the field of ethics you are much more professional than me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75967	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75968	Thank you. In the light of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption, which we recently adopted with HDZ votes, he wrote that of the existing 576 counties, cities and municipalities 124 already have ethical codes, so I went to watch what cities they were. You will not believe one of them was the City of Zagreb, which brought an ethical code at the time of Milan Bandic, and this same Milan Bandic formed his City Anti-Corruption Commission, therefore so much about it. What I'm trying to say is that a system like this in which ethical principles are to be established locally makes no sense, and it's also wrong to say that you don't know what they mean. Clearly, politicians are required to be exempt from the decision, just as the Judges are known when they are asked to move out of the case because their impartiality is threatened. So, you don't need to discover hot water, you just need to form a body which at national level will be able to say what it means for politicians. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75969	Dear Representative Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75970	So in principle, I agree with everything you've said, but now I'm going to move a little bit into the role of Mayor. It is not the case and this debate so unilaterally and simply now I can say no matter what a little distance it will be from the subject that we should change a lot in the system itself in some other laws, because you today have ethical Commissioners under the good part of the City Administration, Municipal, County Administrations of some ethical code. Sometimes someone reports it and your system works in a way that you can still punish someone, but you can't quit. So I think that when we talk about that part of the public administration that a lot more should change than just what today is the subject of our debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75971	The next debate will be respected advocates of Marija Selak Rasludic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75972	Since the Triad of Ethics, Economy, and Politics, which was only understandable to an Aristotle in terms of their persuasion, has long disappeared from our political life and our public, and even perhaps it is best seen in this sphere of economy that has since its original meaning of the OICOS House House of House Houses has been trafficked into one discipline that is largely only purposeful, which I consider to be one of the most serious problems of the present day. I will, of course, look back in my debate in the way that the use of ethical codecs is regulated within this legislative proposal. I'll be very specific first, so... 57 of this Act I assume that the representative bodies or units of local and regional, regional self-government are obliged to adopt the code provided for in Article 4 of this Act within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Act. All right, so those who don't have a code have to pass the code, but the question is, what exactly are they going to bring? In response to one issue in the public debate, i.e. in the EU consultation, the following is said: the Action Plan for the period from 2022 to 2024 provides for the adoption of some code of conduct which will be able to serve as a guideline for all other codes. But what are we doing now? We're hypocritical because we're looking for it, and we're about to legalize that lower units of government must have ethical codes until we've brought their own. Now those promises that we will soon bring it are completely irrelevant. We will currently pass the Law in the first reading where we say it must exist and we have not brought it ourselves yet. At the same time, it is yet to be indicated that the Action Plan, which will be highly elaborated, will make some guidelines that will be a guideline for the other Local Self-Government Units. Moreover, just a month ago on the 12th of 2021, a working group that will be working on the Action Plan and the 22nd of October had only the first meeting. So now we're going to confirm something in the law, and we have no idea when and how what we're telling these self-government units is that they have to work themselves out in half a year. It is also said that autonomy is not possible to adopt a single ethical code. I would like to know which autonomy to cross ethics to be universal and what differences in ethics recognised by HDZ or those who wrote this bill so that they can be articulated in a different way in any of the actions of a public official, especially in the units of local self-government. If it's really going to be the way it's supposed to be here, then I have obvious questions that torture all those who are trying to antagonize so that these codes might look. Will a Mayor who will receive a bribe at some point, and we will find that out only later, be really interested in developing an ethical code that puts the emphasis on sanctioning or problems with such a type of behavior. Will a Mayor who's a bully, and we'll find out later, be very interested in putting in ethical codes some guidelines that would put a clear condemnation of such behaviour first. And the key question, the known fact, is that unfortunately I don't have enough time to go into detail that in these countries that we belong to, which are more prone to corruption and which are being violated, the legal system violates that they have stricter and more elaborate ethical codes that come to the place of legal norm which shouldn't be the case. So my open question is: do we even know what ethical codes are for and what their role should be? Whether they will serve here as a concrete sanction of political insinuators or even those who conflict with ethical rules or who are guidelines of conduct whose violation may result possibly in the next parliamentary elections. Is Croatia mature enough to bring Ethics codes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75973	The Honorable representative, Dark Taritash, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75974	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. So your debate was based on the subject of the ethical code. So we who have remembered this high home for a little while longer or the Croatian Parliament has been trying to bring the ethical code for the last ten years and has not brought it in. At one point when even certain frames were made against him were all. At any point, we wondered why he didn't bring it, what was the problem? So it seems to me that there is always a need to take care of both form and content. The form is satisfied and in this law, the representative bodies of the units of local self-government have been given an ethical code for six months and will be followed. But what will be content? Are they able to bring them? Let's wonder what these ethical codes will be, which will be the result of that, and keeping in mind all the time that Parliament doesn't have an ethical code that should be a role model. So the question is, what's the example? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75975	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75976	I completely agree with you, colleague Dark Tarritash, that it is truly hypocritical that we are talking about adopting any ethical code when we didn't even know how to prescribe it for ourselves. So it seems to me that the intensity of this supposed good intention to be as much ethics in politics as possible is quite different. She wants to take out of the hands of the commission a particular authority which had the clear condemnation of the conflict of interest of politicians, and this had often been a political epilogue, unfortunately for the ruling structure never welcomed him, which was also the reason to go into such changes of the law, and the whole story diverged by the abuse of ethics by leaving everything to a good will to inspire certain units of local self-government, and the goal is less rights and less ethics in politics, not each other. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75977	The next individual debate will be the respected representatives of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75978	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Ministers, the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I approach any law in a way that I look at the form and content, see if everything is formal and how it is followed in substance, equally if we have a certain law in application, then I look at what was the problem in that law, and then the new law solves all these problems. I don't have to agree with the law, I can think differently, but if I know what the goals are, then I can understand. We're not here I'd like to know what the goals of this new law are, what is the meaning of this new law, what is the goal, what are we trying to achieve? Do we want to be more transparent, faster, more efficient, whether we really want to deal with corruption and everything else, or do we want to satisfy the form, and then the content will stay out there somewhere in the impenetrable Croatian fold or Croatian reality? And when you're reading this law, then you're actually wondering, what's the point? The point is to increase the number of people or officials, and here the new name is mandatory, right, who have to file property cards and the whole law is just based on property cards, so I think that at the head of the commission we don't even need to be a lawyer or have to be someone who has a judicial exam. It would be good for the head of the commission to be a good informer, to digitise well, to connect well with each other because the commission will deal with property cards and what is listed in the property cards and compare property cards with the real database and therefore work further. I'm sure that's not going to be the point of the commission. I'm not going to say anything on purpose about the code of ethics because it's talked a lot before, and it's going to talk behind me, but we're talking about this part of what's gonna be the point of the commission, to find out that someone didn't take the property card in time, to find out that some property card didn't do something right, and then it's going to send it to work, or it's something else. Therefore, the purpose of the commission should be, among other things, the public of work, to publicly see decisions, to make public decisions. I'm afraid that's not the case either. I'm going to refer to one more topic, and that's an exception. So every time we do, we have some things that I call fashion. Modernity has been in your clothes in all these conveniently, lately when it comes to the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, the main topic has been the demand for exceptions, the request for the chairman of the commission or any member of the commission to be exempt from making a decision. We know these recent cases where our prime minister asked for it because the president of the commission is in conflict when he decides on his case or case. And now, instead of the subject of exemption, so we know that this is a problem, we know what the Constitutional Court said if we want to know and if we want to read everything, but if we don't want to read the decisions of the Constitutional Court or if we want the decisions of the Constitutional Court only in the part that suits us, then we don't know anything. And now, instead of defining or clarifying the subject of the exception, I'm afraid he didn't make a single step to at least solve it. What exactly do I mean by this debate? When you enter such a topic, then you must have one part where you store everything that has been seen through the work of the commission that has been a problem in the functional part, and if I want the commission to work, and then you have to send a message that you and the commission actually want to do to me, you want everything to be clouded, you want the commission to deal with things that are irrelevant. This is to be read from this bill, so we will satisfy the form, we will have the law, we will really euthanize the commission because it will deal with the things that it has done and how much it has not fulfilled, and the actual role of the commission will be lost, and that was the goal if you wanted that goal not to be known, to be clouded, that the role of the commission is another administrative body that keeps records, that the right things are not discussed, that we should discuss the exemption, so that we do not know whether this is an exception or not, then you have achieved success with this law, but I don't think it should be and should not be the meaning of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75979	We have a few replicas. The first is Honored MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75980	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected colleagues how hateful the government is to fight corruption also shows that they have refused to add to the law a provision that the purpose of the law and the prevention of corruption has been proposed in public consultation. The awareness of corruption is not achieved by adopting the shortcomings as you yourself have said by law and legal frameworks, but by sanctioning them by rapidly and clearly sanctioning the violation of the principle of corrupting actions. The principles set out in this proposal of the law are only stated in principle. Also one of the tools of preventing corruption is transparency and total transparency, not openness, total transparency of spending of public funds, which, of course, to the day of today despite the promises of Gordan Jandrokovic and Dario Hrebak and all others in the pre-election campaign in 2020 promised. What do you see in this law as a tool to prevent corruption? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75981	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75982	I could very simply answer your question, I don't see it. But there's one politician who's no longer alive, who told me at one point I don't understand you. So what is promised not to do. You go on a campaign, you promise, and then you don't do it, and then in four years, you go back, you promise again, and you don't. But when it comes to corruption I'm not, I often feel like in that joke whether I believe more what I see or what I hear. Often from the prime minister, and from high-ranking HDZ colleagues in public space, I hear their tolerance to corruption is zero. So it would be concluded that there is no corruption in Croatia when you listen to it. So tolerance is zero, we have everything we see and in the case of the former and the minister and everything else, so corruption is some kind of fiction. that only the wicked sees. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75983	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75984	Yes, I'm always comfortable with the way HDZ is when we talk about corruption of guilt is always individual, and the definition of corruption is precisely that guilt is collective and that it's about destroying the system otherwise we don't have corruption or we have an individual who's committed some kind of crime and will be punished for it. As far as corruption is concerned, it must always be about the system and guilt can never be individual. But it's a media flossula that tries to stegmatize individuals and move away from them in order to preserve itself just as many of those that can be preserved at all, and maybe they themselves are falling in the ranks of HDZ. What bothers me here is that the commission will indeed come down to the administration of property cards. Let's just say one thing that, I can't say that the commission was the worst work but there was a false perception in the public because the same weight was if someone really failed something serious and was punished, and if someone forgot, I don't know how to write that they changed the function in the assembly which is what everybody else is. a publicly known fact. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75985	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75986	Well, what we do, thank you very much for your question, but what we actually see from this bill is that the most important part will be this administrative part. The most important thing will be good administration and then indicators that someone can't fill the property card, that someone misfiring the property card, which is behind it, so we had a chance to see so you just don't have to go very far in history. We had a minister who was in charge in one part of his mandate that he was in charge of working on this law, and he was in trouble, or he was alone in serious problems where there were much, much more significant elements of corruption. So, I don't want to defend at any point, you have to fill out the property card well and if you don't meet it well for it to be sanctioned, but it's not the basic role of the commission, it's this technical part that someone is a good IT guy doing excellently and Shows the mistakes they are. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75987	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75988	Thank you. So, if the esteemed colleague Mrak Taritash can't be called and prosecuted by officials for violating the principle of action, so if he can't call them for dishonesty, unconsciousness, dishonesty, not dignity, etc., I'm really wondering what the purpose and purpose of this law is. I will remind you again that GRECO has recommended strengthening the implementation of Article 6. Here we are convinced that in this law the recommendations of GRECO are all accepted, but it is not true here, so I ask you to comment on the fact that again and again we do not listen to the recommendations we must always receive from Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75989	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75990	Thank you very much. So when you do some work you have to do it responsibly. Special responsibility shall be given to the Minister whose jurisdiction both the administration and the judiciary are in. We recently had a set of laws where it was related to the judiciary where the Constitutional Court's verdict only partially incorporated into that set of laws, and the part that doesn't fit didn't fit, and then actually they all assure us that here's the Constitutional Court's verdict was built in, but it wasn't. Equally, it's a great effort, not even a great effort and effort anymore, so more colleagues from HDZ don't even work very hard anymore, or anything they know that they have the power of their hands, so no matter what they suggest, they know that they have the power to vote for it, but first they'll get it back on their heads, it's always in your life. The point of this law is actually to euthanize the work of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest, it's like a path to hell Good intentions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75991	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75992	Dear colleague Mrak Taritash, you have expressed concern about the public action of the commission. The fact is that these changes, i.e. With this new law, we have an article where the commission can voluntarily decide whether the session will be public or secret. What do they, by ruling it, order us?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75993	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75994	So by ruling that, then, I can answer your question to an esteemed colleague as politely as I can, and I can answer what I really mean. It would be polite if there were some cases in which maybe there shouldn't be a public. But that's just a decent answer. The real answer is that they don't want to talk in public space about things that the commission really needs to decide, that they want to go under the radar, and now we have a recent example when it comes to, when you make the comparison with another body. And this is the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, which is already in public space for a while now, discussing whether or not the main state's attorney was in a meeting. Maybe when she was in a meeting, I knew about the cases when we were told we were on a date, but there was a phone ring, so we went out, so we didn't hear, or I had to do something or I had to go. There's a law here that can be simple and clear if we want to, and if we don't, then we have a law like this before us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75995	Thank you. Now she will speak to a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75996	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has, in fact, given the public's greatest attention to the principles of conduct of the duties which were in the current, i.e. in the current law, defined Article. 5. This bill of law has actually defined these principles as ornaments. However, I warn from this speaker, that the Commission must simply have a clear responsibility to decide on this article and sanction the officer who violates it. Because as I said in my replica to my colleague Mrak Taritash, the awareness of corruption's harmfulness is not achieved by the passing of missing, weak laws. It's exactly the opposite. So by clear sanctioning, speedy sanctioning, transparent sanctioning of violations of the principle of corruption. Of course, because of the lack of work to prevent corruption, the authorities' reactions in most cases follow only after media reports. And we've had and we have a very clear case, a case of the Grief, just like this, in a manner like this. After that, all due to the reasons set out in the reports by international authorities are lacking adequate sanctions for the perpetrators of corrupt activities. And what kind of message is being sent to the public? You can do whatever you want if you're in the right position. That's where we get the point. In this proposal of the law is actually a visible signature which, with corruption, is signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which wants to be accounted for only by a declaration. On a piece of paper that won't be worth anything because the commission is taking away the basic task of why it was founded. To prevent corruption and to make decisions about the violation of public duty. GREECE, therefore, the European body that is accompanied by the fight against corruption, which is so pleased to be called upon by the HDZ's majority, has made clear its opinion and recommendation to be implemented. 2 and 5 in the previous law, i.e. the current law, i.e. 2 and 6 in the new proposal of the law, are linked and clearly determined how the commission is supervised and sanctioned. So it sanctions a breach of the principle of public duty. And it's on the page. 22 reports very, very clear and stated. So, Article 6 where it only lists what officials are, that is, bonds are required, and that if they are not held to there are no sanctions for them, they will actually open Pandora's box of serious violations of the principle of public duty. And, of course, to open the door to the widespread abuse of public duties, because those who behave them will get a swing just in violation of that principle without any fear of being punished. By this law, we are literally removing our teeth from corruption and openly calling on officials that conflict of interest is not such a bogey. By ruling to fight corruption by turning the commission to a clinical dead body to prevent conflicts of interest. Little by little, they take away his powers and tailor him towards his corrupt, I must say, corrupt worldview. It is clear that in addition to GREKO’s opinion that the principles of public duty must be respected, and that the OECD last week was at a conference in Zagreb, it was very clear that the amendment of the law around Article 5, as is now proposed, was a step backwards. This week Croatia is on the agenda of the plenary session GRECA, and it would be good to wait with the conformity assessments by the end of the week, when GRECO will say whether we are in sync or not with anti-corruption settings. I would point out once again that because of the lack of confidence in the objectivity of institutions, due to almost daily but daily arguments for this particular mistrust can have the right to doubt the progress in the fight against corruption with such a bill, and I can ask once again the minister how he intends to justify Europe's collapse of really profoundly breaking anti-corruption tools in front of Europe, if he doesn't care what the Croatian public, which Croatian citizens, which, by the way, the Croatian profession which has declared in public consultation thinks about it. Let us not allow us to re-change the law just because we got a slap from the EU as usual in this home and it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75997	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75998	I thank the chair, dear colleagues, I am completely fascinated by the answer in the e-consultation where I quote, on the proposal that a change must be placed in the property card from agricultural to construction means the following sentence goes: It is not clear what information should be given on the conversion of agricultural and construction land. I would ask you to comment, is it even possible that someone who writes such a response to a comment is doing the Law on conflict of interest. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u75999	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76000	The competence and relevance of the authors of this law and the proposer of this law are also discussed in the recent judgment of the High Court of Justice against the HDZ on corruption. Thus, such a law is highly flawed and proposed by a party who is legally convicted of corruption. I think all the comments outside that framework are unnecessary, even a comment on this response regarding the objection to public consultation. And we are witnessing daily, almost daily examples of how very high-ranking officials and even members of the body, the party bodies of the HDZ are in very high-level corrupt affairs, and the prime minister manifests himself in such affairs as I didn't know, so it's no wonder that such an observation is not clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76001	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76002	Dear MPs, this bill also lists criminal provisions that have been accepted and raised from 1,000 to 2,000 kuna, so I would ask you how you feel about how this administrative action will now be punished with such a high penalty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76003	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76004	Thank you very much, I must confess to my esteemed colleagues that the change in the penalties provided for in breach of the provisions from 1,000 kuna to 2,000 kuna is still a kind of progress. The progress made during the public consultation was made by SDP President Peja Grbin, who has just pointed out the disproportionateity between the fines of 1,000 kunas that the rulings originally predicted and the parts that are placed on the debtor's burden. So they can be partially satisfied that the penalty is still increased, however, which means 2,000 kunas for the violation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, which is why we can agree on absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76005	The next debate will be the respected representative of Damir Habib. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76006	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here is today a proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest which would say that, together with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, but also a new law that is in the announcement of lobbying and I hope that it will soon be in debate in this House, is also a mechanism for strengthening the fight against corruption and the prevention of corruption. I would have previously read in fact on several allegations which were presented during today's debate by some opposition MPs above all by a fellow coat of arms who unfortunately is not here but spoke in front of the SDP Club when he mentioned that, in fact, the government, or the resolution ministry, in this way, wants to euthanise the work of the commission. This is a very interesting statement given that we see from this new bill how in fact we will increase the number of taxpayers of this law, speed up the work of the commission, improve the institution's handover of the property card and the content of the property cards themselves, and therefore this comes from a party which in 2012 launched before the Constitutional Court a procedure to establish the compliance of certain provisions of the Law of the prevention of conflicts of interest with the Constitution. After that, certain provisions in the law itself were repealed, and then we could talk about euthanizing the Commission's work to prevent conflicts of interest. However, it is forgotten today. It was also said here on several occasions by counterpart Gamulin that the Court's case-law concerning the article, the application of Article 5, is now new Article 6 and that, following its case-law, there was a diametrically opposite decision. So that's incorrect again. There was no case-law until that time, so there was no case-law for the reason that none of the bounds of that law in their legal remedy were called for infringing Article 5, none. It was only the first time that one of the debtors and, therefore, the beneficiary of the legal medicinal product indicated that the decision was taken solely on the basis of Article 5(5) and after the Constitutional Court had said that it had been questioned by the Administrative Court and the High Court of Justice that there was a adoption of the case law, not a change in the case law but rather a adoption of the case law. The third thing, counterpart Oreskovic here mentioned that politicians are expected to be excluded. Interestingly, a colleague of Oreskovic, who was the chairman of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, except that, as we can see from the decision of the Administrative Court and the High Administrative Court, incorrectly applied the existing positive regulation or the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests also did not know that it had to be excluded in one case, so it did not, for example, exclude itself in the case against Milan Bandic. Very interesting from the person who therefore, especially here, gives us members and members of the HDZ lessons about the way we should behave. I will look back a little further on Article 5 of the law so far, i.e. Article 6 of the new law. In particular, these principles of action which are the subject of this debate, to the greatest extent, of individual debates, should necessarily be linked to a specific provision of a law which has been violated by the official. In this context, the practice of the European Court of Human Rights should be pointed out, and in accordance with which each regulation must be formulated with sufficient precision to allow for the consequences that a particular action may have. This is why the provision of Article 5 is not the case and cannot constitute an instrument for determining the infringement of the law on its own. I'd pull that off and I'd already mentioned the analogy on several occasions, for example, with the verdict of a criminal, in criminal proceedings. Therefore, no conviction against the defendants is based on a violation of the principle of that law, so those general provisions. But it always connects to a concrete article that regulates and describes this Penalty. Of course, if, for example, someone received an unauthorized gift, that person would, of course, be unwitting, unfair, and irresponsible, but would be subject to a specific provision of 62 provisions in the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests that apply to this particular example. So you can't just base your decision on breaking principles. Why didn't anyone point to an article? 7 if he had a problem? Article 7 which prescribes prohibitions of action. Why didn't any of you mention what else you might need to gain if you really have a real intention to increase the powers of the Commission. Very interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76007	We have a few replicas. The first is a respected representative, Zmajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76008	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Habian that this Law is important and has attracted a lot of attention and the number of E consultations as well as a number of participants participated in the creation of this new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. You have certainly had experience in your work so far in the application of the current 2011 Law, which has been changed and amended four times in part. So what's your opinion, is this new law going to have a better effect than the current Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76009	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76010	Thank you very much. Well, I hope that the Commission will now apply indeed and act truly under this Law or should have followed the last regulation and now the new law, because we have examples from practice and many of them where our parliamentary representative and the former President of the Committee did not do so. So it's not all about the norm itself, it's about applying the norm. So, unfortunately, colleague Oreshkovic, by her own actions.../Speaking in a foreign language./... as it is said legally, or through her powers, has caused us to now have a number of objects that fall in the courts. Because of her sloppyness, and not only that, I mentioned so she was obliged to exclude herself by one subject so she didn't do it, even, and here she gives us lessons that politicians must be aware of the moment they have to exclude themselves. So interesting, interesting way of doing things. I say it's not up to norms, to the content of the law, but it's a question of how the Commission will act and whether it will adhere to those standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76011	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76012	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleague Habib. All day long here today we've been listening to something that doesn't stand. Someone who has yet to read this Law that significantly regulates certain things that have never been fixed before. That they're ideally probably not. One of the provisions of this new Law is that the so-called cooling period extends from 12 to 18 months, which is important in relation to the Law before and essentially gives local leaders some knowledge that they already become the leaders of local and regional self-government must think about the day when the time will come that it may not be anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76013	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76014	Thank you very much. Well, I think we heard from the Prime Minister's opening statement that he mentioned that it was actually wanted 24 months if I wasn't mistaken, so that we actually found this kind of compromise solution of 18 months, so it was extended that after the public office there was this restriction. I would say that this provision is, in fact, neutralised and that, in my view, extended the duration of the restrictions in question, and on the other hand, I think that for the persons to whom this, or that specific provision of relations should not, in their later days after the termination of their duties, actually do not restrict them and in their constitutional right to actually carry out a certain duty, i.e. to carry out a certain business.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76015	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76016	Thank you very much. You mentioned yourself in your debate Art. 7, which states the prohibited activities of the debtors and in Article 7. 49 it is said that the warning can be given to the obligor if, according to his actions and responsibilities and the resulting result, it is clearly an easy form of violation of the provision of this Law. Now, we have a situation that the Commission, by the basis of this Act, may well be and according to experience, I am talking about an experience of course with DORH and USKOK and the case of Gabriela Žalac, will decide that it is some easy form of violation of the Law, so in an equitious violation of the Law provision, and in the event of a conflict of interest in individual officials, it will only be a reminder. This was not possible in the previous law, or today’s current law, because the violation of the principle of conduct of duty knew which sanctions followed, or that the offender would be warned, and in the case of all these other cases would be sanctioned and fined. That's it. what is the basic remark, and besides the prevention of corruption here there is no [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76017	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76018	Dear colleague Ahmetovic. I'm sorry we don't understand each other. So I will repeat: If the Mandatory of this Law commits any action or failure prescribed by this Law. So if, as I said, receive an illicit gift, if there are more shares of business shares or shares than this law may have or etc. He is automatically unconscious and irresponsible. It will, therefore, be based now on Article 6 and, in conjunction with Article 17,18,19, it will be decided that it has hurt or that, in the conflict of interest, you cannot, therefore, base Article 5 solely on the basis of Article 5, take the decision. That's what the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court and the High Administrative Court tell you. I also quoted the European Court of Human Rights' decision. So I repeat, if you received an unauthorized gift, you are unconscious, and unfair, and you have violated the principles of action, automatically. So Article 5 relating to a specific provision analogies like I told you at the Penal Code. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76019	Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Barbara Antolic Vupra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76020	The Honorable Chairman, MPs and MPs. The proposal for a Law to prevent conflicts of interest in strategic terms is a step backwards even though there are technical improvements. In this proposal of the law remains the inability to conduct procedures for breach of the principle of action and that is what we have actually heard all day long as the basic and greatest problem. Therefore, the problem that the Committee puts itself in the position of the administrative and administrative body, and in fact it acted and was established as an ethical body which, above all, acts preventively. According to the new Bill of Law, the Commission no longer has the right to conduct proceedings because of intransparency, unconsciousness and bias, and that alone is not enough. The same one of the remarks we could hear is that the case law which has been adopted in this Bill proposal in some parts, however, is forgotten that this case law applies to the law which has so far been in force and that it has been willful, could have been a little different to hide it, and only by the fact that this case law that was in the previous law represents some kind of cowardice egg because the truth is actually on the other side. The new law will also bring about a kind of legal chaos. For what? So it is predicted that units of local self-government will be tasked with establishing such ethical codes. Here, we know that the Parliament has announced that it will finally adopt its ethical code, we know that some units of local and regional self-government already have ethical codes, but now the municipalities and cities are about to be reunited with some task that can be very large differences between different municipalities and cities, depending on who is in power. Why? Because different ethical standards will be applied which so far have not and the question is whether it will be prescribed. Why am I saying that,... as something that's very important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the majority will decide how and what will be dealt with by those who sin against the code of ethics, so those who are in power and there is a possible situation that will not be welcomed, regardless of who is in power, dishonesty has no sign of its own, has its name and last name and should thus be prevented and through the law not only leave it at the will of the local majority. The penalties we also had the opportunity to hear about, which, thank God, has been accepted by the initiative to increase this punishment, but in fact, de facto we are going back to the beginning, punishment is only the administrative act of the lack of data, which, in fact, in the act itself or the conflict of interest itself will not, actually, befall it. The intensity of the entire ethical body, the actions of the ethical body, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is prevention. This should be followed by the ethical codes adopted at the level of municipalities and cities, however, if there are no clear examples, unless there are clear instructions, unless there is a practice of action, unless society alone follows these examples, then it will not be enough in all Croatia to pass a bunch of laws because a society that will not be sufficiently educated and sensitive to the problems of conflict of interest will not bring any good to any party.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76021	The next debate will be the respected representative of Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76022	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The debate on this new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest has been present in public and political space in Croatia for a long time and has been breaking spears over the status and powers of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest. This Law is, not a step back, this Law is a step forward because it is fully heard from the Prime Minister's opening statement, and it fully relies on the recommendations of GRECO and the EU Commission's report. Therefore, the Law is in line with the highest standards, and even in that internal communication of the Ministry of Justice and Administration and the representative of GRECO, it has established that such standards as this Law provides are in line and with, not only the decision of the national Constitutional Court, i.e. administrative and regular courts and the High Administrative Court of Croatia, but are in line, as he said so, I have heard well, Mr. Minister and with the European Court of Human Rights rulings that he made here from this pay phone this morning. As far as I can tell from this whole debate, they're breaking up around the ankles. 5 which is art. 5 from the existing Law on Decision on conflict of interest, preventing conflicts of interest was misused by the Committees to decide on a conflict of interest. I have talked about this countless times on the Committee on the Constitution and here in the Assembly and argued that the Committee of the Law had interpreted and attached the powers of the legislator, which is HS, to the same commission he did not give jurisdiction. But as the commission thus ruled and declared guilty government officials, it was obviously the siren's call to the commission to continue the trail so as not to buy their own image in the Croatian public by judging politicians about what the law did not give them. That the absurdity may be even greater when they have ruled and determined that public officials or local officials are guilty because the principles of action of the Article have been violated. 5. The best words and the fact that, in the light of such a decision and the decision of the committee, the official is not allowed to appeal to what the commission has decided is that the individual official is guilty because the complaint is not allowed, given that sanctions are not prescribed, so if sanctions are not prescribed, then we are talking about another level, which is ethical, transparent actions in the action of a particular individual official. Therefore, this is what the courts have found and, instead of being exposed to this one public challenge, those members of the commission, the commission that has been misread by the law, it turns out that those who, this work and such action have assessed illegally that they are then in public space and exposed to, to try to reduce the importance of the commission, to try to dismiss the law, etc., etc. So, that, that's absolutely not true. The commission's task is to determine in each case whether an individual official is in conflict of interest or not. The conflict of interest is a situation where an individual official abuses his public function in order to enable the acquisition of benefits to be material, it is another and the commission to determine and when it finds that, at the most, to punish an individual official, rather than burden him with something that he, which is not intended by law, is not, as, as an illegal act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76023	Thank you. We've got multiple replicas, the first respected representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76024	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear counterpart Bačić, here you have said yourself in your individual debate that we have again on this subject a reverse saw that is used many times in this HS when the opposition wants to show something that is good, which is constructive, which is positive, which is transparent, which is an improvement as something negative, and at the same time what is negatively proven by their high administrative courts and judgments of administrative courts speak as if something is good. So today we have again the fact that a number of innovations that go through this law, including improving the position and powers and status of the members of the commission, want to be seen as something that reduces the importance of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76025	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76026	I'd like to thank my colleague, Mazhar. Yes, I agree with you and this is what this law seeks, I think it has answered, and we will also through the second reading we will also obviously and certain proposals that will arise from this debate in particular, but I agree with you completely that through such solutions the commission has been given new powers. What is important to say is where and where the number of not-state officials is expanding as it is now, as the law has so far quoted rather than the obligation to implement this law, which certainly contributes to the repression of corruption, which, through this vision and the conduct of the commission, is being made impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76027	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76028	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here is listening to today's debate on the side of the opposition they are trying to suggest to the public through their discussions that HDZ is killing this political body, let's say or the independence of this body, that we are the ones who, as such a law, are doing this, and we are witnessing the history of the existence of this commission means after the politician and the person selected in the public competitions, so they became politicians and bring all this to one article, Art. 5, the current 6th principle of action. So are we really the ones most practically tried or made decisions when we talk about officials just like these and those bodies, or are those people who have just become politicians doing their job as they say independently, independently, in front of cameras, judging by the important objects that they estimated to be giving them a certain weight and here they are quickly on the lists, here they are in the assembly and we're teaching you about what's moral, which is not, who's guilty, who isn't who they are. Who's to blame for the fact that someone retired the perception of the citizens? to that body, and then political? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76029	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76030	Well, I agree with my colleague I will fight that for a long time not only when it comes to... Important, when it comes to violations of the law by false interpretation of the article. 5th and breach of the principle of action. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have been here in this assembly for years claiming that the commission has been acting against the law, and there my colleagues from the SDP have repeatedly tried to convince me that I was wrong when I claimed that the official had the right to request the exemption from the chairman of the committee or members of the committee, and I claimed that before continuing the procedure, the commission should be decided by the majority of the votes, and this person, requested by the exemption, must be excluded from the vote, to decide whether the official is entitled or not to request an exemption and to do so, and to such a decision, the commission has the right to have an administrative court. I was assured by my colleagues from the SDP and Mrs. Oreskovic said that it was not their job and that they were found to have done wrong, and in many cases, their courts have annulled the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76031	Thank you. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76032	Thank you. I think Mr. Bačić has the right to have an opinion and to translate that opinion into legal provisions whether the commission should act in accordance with Article. 5 or not, it's better for the Parliament than for the courts. What I can't agree with is when you said they abused their rights, but they didn't. So HS was on a regular basis, almost unanimously accepting reports from the commission long before you started saying that I couldn't decide by art. The 5th accepted them unanimously. So, it wasn't at all a topic of debate in the Parliament, I guess the officials would have told them themselves before you couldn't do it by article. 5. If they misused special rights, they violated the Law of Conflict of Interest because abuse of special rights is one of the reasons for punishment, not for making warnings. I believe that it is necessary to remain entitled to give the opinion of the committee under Article 6 and that it should be possible to prescribe that such an opinion must be adopted unanimously, I think it would be a compromise between what it proposes... [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76033	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76034	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk, I am not exactly able to return with certainty to the days when the commission began to judge by the foundation of the article. 5, but I know, and the two of us were sitting on the Constitution Committee, which is there in 2016. So there's a full five years of the same thing I'm saying, the same thing I'm saying right now. What was before 2012?? I know that the Constitutional Court of 2012 abolished certain provisions and assessed several constitutional provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, but I know you sat together with me in the Committee on the Constitution chaired here for a long time and Vice-President of the Parliament where I claimed and gave plastic examples, I don't have time to say it now, plastic examples of how unwarranted and wrong it is. And if I have time and some replica I'm about to say how and how I talked about this illegal act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76035	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76036	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Bacic. That's exactly what I wanted to mention. Therefore, in 2012 the Constitutional Court adopted a decision to abolish the Article. 8, 26, 27, 30, 30, 30th century 1st, 39th, 45th, 46th, 47rd, 53rd, 55th on the SDP proposal, and today, colleagues from the SDP say that we want to euthanize the work of the commission. Very interesting. And another thing, which also comes here by the SDP that says that we've taken the opportunity of the commission to actually consider an article. 5. and cannot be called upon or now. 6. Therefore, it can be called, but cannot make an exclusive decision on the basis of this article, but must be linked to a specific provision in the law itself, what I was saying in my individual debate. I don't know why it's so complicated and vague to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76037	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76038	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, Habian, I will now remember one of my discussions precisely on this topic four or five years ago in HS when I tried to make this principle of action plastically manifest as hypothetical that my colleague, Bauk, sued me and found guilty because on his particle, I delayed the tree for the heat and in the court proceedings, it was not the particle and plot of Mr Bauk but Branko Bačić, but the court goes one step further and said that, yes, Mr Bačić is right, but he does not keep that plot by the march of a good master, and in the end I get the impression that I am really there with that particle in any way against the law. So in the case here, he's not an officer in the conflict of interest, but because of the violation of the principle of action, all the salva insult that he was corrupt was in conflict of interest. And not being found in a conflict of interest by anyone who asks you more after a few years what was and what was specifically decided. So that's one. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76039	Thank you. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76040	... Col. Bacic, can you deny or confirm that the local HDZ leaders have had objections to this law and that Ante Sanader has passed on their disdain and that is what Andrej Plenkovic allegedly said would not move parts of this law? [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76041	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76042	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Mrs. Peovic, for this replica, so let's demystify that, too. What's this about? The position of the HDZ Representatives Club and my view is that a local self-government official, the mayor, the mayor, as well as the mayor, could refer to the state officials as well. After he stops being mayor and after those six months he has the right to compensation, may it be that it is no conflict of interest to be the principal of kindergarten, he may if the kindergarten is owned by the city. It cannot also be the director of a museum, a library, that it can be the director of a company and that there is no conflict of interest because there is no abuse of its public duty to favor the personal interest. It's my position, and I think you agree with that, and we've highlighted that ten times in the debate, and that's the solution in the law. And that's the big deal about what Mr. Sanader was talking about or what the HDZ Representative Club was saying about this law. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76043	Thank you very much. It's been a long time, and we haven't had a little rest or a little air. Now we're gonna take a short break to 14.50 minutes and move on. Please let us open the windows a little bit. MEETING AT 14:40 A.M. Here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, we've got a little bit of air and a little chilly, because it's cold out there and we'll get on with our work, and now we'll be talking to the esteemed representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76045	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I want to say something about this Law to prevent conflicts of interest. I have said the title of the law that it should be prevented, but apparently the everyday appearance is and certainly there are reasons for it because the commission makes decisions daily and has obviously enough material. Which is why, because this law is actually the subject of political supremacy from local, regional to state level. There are people applicants, there are political struggles especially at local level, where any opposition councilor, if you happen to be the mayor, will report you in case he thinks there's a conflict of interest or that there's something about it that might agree, and then there's the story. There goes the procedure, so when it's all over and there's nothing then the next application goes and so on. Anyway, anonymously, you can't find out anything, and we even know that there are colleagues in the assembly who are professional applicants, so they reported their other colleagues, and they know it but it's an honor to them. But it's all part of the job and the law recognizes it. Now, the debate has to go to a part of the one I'm interested in and it's about today's debate. One former president of the Committee for Conflict of Interest and today's politician today found that the Committee for Conflict of Interest can rest in peace. Because yes, here's the ruling party doing everything in its power to retire him. And I stand up to it with my thinking and my debate. I'm just saying what I said in one line today. That she, as the former president of that body, as the woman or person she chose in this assembly and became an expert, let's just say that the person who was supposed to lead that commission failed to create a situation for herself to move away from politics. She just got into politics, with everything she did as president of the Committee. And already, I think she's entered a certain conflict of interest. How she managed to back it up, i.e. as I support my thinking in a way that already after we replaced her here in the assembly, we did not want to choose her, because we saw that she began to go politically into certain situations and began to judge us in a different way than when she started there in 2013. And that she wanted to do politics. And there were a lot of those cases. What she did. I'm not finished being president of the Committee yet, but here I am at one of the public companies, here I am in business with this company. Unfortunately, also with persons who are today designated indictees, i.e. There are certain actions against them. She never explained to us why it happened and how it happened. It's only a few months since shift here at HS. What else did she do? She did what she wanted to do first to become mayor of Lika-Sen County. Well, she didn't turn out to be. So she wanted to become a representative in the European Parliament. She didn't make it either. So she wanted to be president of the state, and that didn't work. I'm here at HS, after a number of attempts, here I am in HS. Now I'm going to tell you every day what's moral, which isn't. I'm that supreme judge. Morals, ethics, chateaus, let's put it that way among Croatian politicians. That's what it sounds like to you. After all we know or hear or read. Of course it's not like that. In order to support her opinion that she is the one to determine what is moral and what isn't, she told me in a debate that she doesn't care that her colleague at the club is in multiple conflicts of interest. How it doesn't interest her at all. That it's a normal situation. To come here today and say that we are the ones who retired this same commission. What an ordinary citizen can do, we don't need politicians. We're overpowering, but an ordinary citizen thinks about her actions. Was it okay to make decisions as president of the Committee, come here to HS to take out an object that she's been waving around here all the time and says here I'm judging this one and I have my own political position on it. Is that normal? Tomorrow, will we expect the judges of any court, the Supreme Court of the Parliament, who make decisions on politicians and then we have a story about moral independence, etc. So we're interested in what happened and who did it. In our opinion alone, the political engagement has retired the perception of both citizens and politicians about the independence of such bodies, because when we listen to what is happening today, I'm listening to my colleague recently, a new colleague who says, I have 200 articles that I'm not being tried for. What are we talking about? Whether the commission will finally start to act by law, which this law allows them to, or we will deal with politics. That's the basic question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76046	Thank you very much, we have a breach of the rules of procedure raised by a respected representative of Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76047	The breach of Rules of Procedure in 238, but on you chairing, means the representative is not sticking to the subject. I wouldn't really react if he didn't stick to the subject, but you warned a few MPs and MPs not to stick to the subject, you were in our word during the debate, and now you let a colleague really talk for a long time without sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76048	If that were the first part of the subject, and the second I was very, very liberal today, and I was playing anything that maybe in some other situations I wouldn't allow at all. Not to you. I could've interrupted you, I could've given you a quiet warning, calmly you'd be absolutely right. I didn't. I am aware that the topic is sensitive, I am aware that the topic is very broad, I am aware that people and were personally engaged in certain segments of this topic and that they are personally experiencing it, and that is why I do not think that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I appeal to everything as I do every time and now and in the future I will appeal that as much as possible we stick to the subject, but I am aware that I have strictly insisted that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest 3/4 speakers should be mentioned. Let's move on with the replicas, the esteemed representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76049	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, I have listened very carefully to you, and I agree with your consideration. If a period of cooling so-called coolant. It must be for all officials under the current 12 months law, and according to this proposal for 18 months for those in a business relationship, it seems to me, and if we also consider that those who are politically active cannot be appointed, or if they are members of any political option cannot be appointed to independent bodies, then it would also be logical for me that those who were and led independent bodies cannot become politicians immediately after the end of that function. It might be good to think about it too, so we have some cooling period for those who ran independent bodies, and then suddenly they want to do politics. What do you think of that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76050	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76051	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac. That's exactly the part I haven't been able to answer, but I think we're proposing to the Minister to think about it. I did not find any members of the committee and the chairman of the commission in this law with any obligations. Maybe they say or have certain obligations because this was the collapse of the image itself, the independence of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, you haven't ended up being president yet here and already in business with public firms, and we've seen and what it looks like not, we can't figure out how it got into that relationship, and then here you are in politics with all your papers down on the decisions and I'm judging you here, and so I'm going to judge you here and here in the assembly and there's no court that's going to convince me that I've done something wrong. I'm against it. So let's think about maybe until the second reading whether or not we should put certain obligations on these people, because I don't want to ban anyone from dealing with politics, but let's have some rules because if we jump out of one function and abuse it in a way to talk about the same things then it's got a problem with me. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76052	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representative Boric, it is extremely important for citizens to have some sort of control over what politicians do, own and, in fact, what the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest could say is in the public interest. But you yourself have said through your exposure that there are abuses of individual institutes, that they occur from those who unfoundedly report officials for various reasons to the fact that you have noticed that only the commission has sometimes abused certain articles and that there may even be some political or other motivation. Can you tell us more about this, and do you think that with these amendments to the law, this abuse will be reduced to a minimum?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76054	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76055	Thank you very much. I think this law should contribute, as far as I don't know. I've said the current situation, and I've been listening to the president of the current commission recently who says I have 200 articles per article that I'm not really given the court, they're not that hard. These are probably some articles that burden the leaders of local self-government, regional, etc., where they report you for something and you don't even know why, but decisions are made in procedures. We'd all only judge the hard-working, the politicians, the highest levels. Why? Because we had practice. That when you judge the highest, everyone looks at you, everyone sees you, but then you get into politics with them. I said the road we saw. From the mayor, the president, members of the European Parliament to the parliamentary representative, I want to be everything. Now, if we're going to use our own powers and speak, we're independent, we're independent because you chose us to be independent and make decisions we go.../incomprehensible/... here's a political option. And it's very convincing they're trying to impose themselves like that anti-substance of everything that's supposed to be this one. Normally, it's those who judge us daily in all processes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76056	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76057	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Minister Boric, here is what you said today and we are witnessing, and therefore we are witnessing certain abuses of the commission that later received court epilogues through judgments, but today we have not touched on this bill, so responsible policy. If we look at that proposal, it is not only a nomotechnically regulated law but it is going to increase the number of debtors, to go to an increase in sanctions, to go to better quality property card editing, to go to strengthening and members of the commission, to go to the regulation of all those sanctions if it is not followed. So if by this law we are still tightening ourselves up in a way that reduces the rights that do this rather than the responsible policy. On the one hand, therefore, responsible policy introduces order into its courtyard on the other hand, individuals abuse the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76058	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76059	Thank you very much. Comrade Mazhar, I agree with you, and I think we're making it as possible for it to work. I support this law and I believe that those people we chose there should really look independently at every situation and judge as much in large cases as in small ones. Don't judge, make decisions. And that this makes sense, not that we are only interested in what we are discussing today, Article 5 of the principle of action, present Article 6, where they would write what they wanted. And when the court says that they have abused their own authority that they did not have, they continue to insist on proving to that court that they are right, not that same court because they even indirectly say political arbitration so that today someone else would be this or that. I mean, messages like that say that we don't understand our own duty then, and we expect them to be just asking them, an independent body that's going to do their job the way it says. It's nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76060	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev Martičev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76061	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you spoke about what was done earlier and how the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests worked. Do you remember when you as mayor, myself as mayor and many other mayors, the mayors in Croatia received a request for an indication of the alleged conflict of interest due to the adoption of spatial plans of our municipalities and cities. It is well known that spatial plans bring the city’s, or municipal councils, that this is earlier in public view, in a public debate, that there is a need to obtain a number of consent. Nevertheless, it was the mayors, or mayors, who were to be crucified because of their spatial plans. Because at least now, after all this time, you can assume the reasons why we received such requests.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76062	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76063	Thank you very much, colleague Yurichev. Well, there's been a lot of reports about everything. I'm just saddened by the fact that some people don't understand the job that was given to them and they asked me to give me the last plan you've brought, I don't know any years, I'm not going to talk about what it's about. Give me the last plan, we'll determine what happened. Well, you can't determine on the last plan if you don't have that plan in front of him that happened. That's how they made decisions. And when you convinced them that they didn't know their own things, when the directors of the tourist communities allowed them to be in a relationship that they didn't, which was a classic conflict of interest, they wrote such solutions or decisions. Even the decisions in which it is allowed to have I don't know as chief of staff my contract with a company that maintains public space, and that same firm is building you something around the house. And that's all okay with them. Is that a conflict of interest? Someone interpreted it as he wanted, but we want it to be interpreted in the law as it says and nothing else, so if you're guilty, you'll pay for what you have to pay both politically and financially and in any other way. But to convince us that we are the ones who are destroying the dignity of it, I disagree. There are those who have contributed there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76064	Thank you. Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree that it's a good thing that the circle of debtors has spread and I support Mrs. Jelkovac's proposal to extend it, during the cooling period, that all those who have decided on those who need to be decided on. But I was surprised by Mrs. Martinchev. Well, of course you'll sign as mayor. What are you afraid of? Why are you talking about it? If that hadn't happened, Lovro Kuščević would have been where he was or something like that. So, one side and the other and the third side. Look at the academic Rainer. He's 32 years in high politics. He's a little older than me. I'm 22 years old, so we've never been in a conflict of interest. Never! It was anonymous, there will be. So there are people in every club that I can lecture about how the property card is filled, how the government behaves, etc. He and I were ministers, hospital directors, head of clinics, head of department, never in conflict of interest. Why? Well, because we follow the law. We listen to the profession and we can... So, you said some things well, you exaggerated, you exaggerated the fixations, Mrs. Oreshkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not what you do, fellow Boric. You've gone too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76066	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76067	Thank you very much. I didn't even mention her to my colleague Ostojić. No name, no last name. [[/Intruder Ostojić: Come on!]] That's not fixation. I explained to my colleague Ostojić what she said today and why she said it. Was she aware why she said that? Her departure, the commission is no longer worth anything. It's a message to everyone. And all those who have come and have to do their job are no longer worth anything, and she herself has done acts that have violated the confidence of us politicians in that body and then I guess the citizens. Because if someone tells you it's normal that after you've finished your career in that commission, you're going straight into some kind of public enterprise, so in six months something... So right after that, you go into politics and you come here with objects, you fight politically. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what is it? Are we going to do that body then? Then we say it's one political body, that's what we had when they were parliamentary representatives at the head of that committee, so we know what it looked like. That's not what we want, that's what we said. But we didn't expect those who were elected to a public competition to do exactly the same, and that's why we're in favour of extending this to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76068	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76069	My fellow MPs and MPs, first of all, my colleague Stojić, you don't have to be upset that Boric was talking about me for five minutes, because I don't know about the law itself if he could say anything, and neither were the rest of the HDZ's. And yes, the fact is that the commission in my assembly, and it continued with this practice and new assembly, was not afraid of the most powerful, politically most influential, those at the highest peak functions either during the HDZ government or your government. And I wish all the state institutions involved in fighting corruption had that standard, that standard of professionalism, that standard of courage. In my day, it wouldn't have happened if anyone could hold an object in a drawer or obstruct a case like we now have a chance to watch with UskoK and DORH. I didn't expect you to be particularly bright, but I didn't expect you to be so unintelligent that you could jump so much into your own mouth, so that's what I wasn't hoping for. Take all your indications from the archives of the Croatian Parliament as a club of representatives, as well as individual indications when the Commission's work reports for 2013, 2014 and 2015. Where's it stuck? It was stuck when President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic's actions began to be questioned. It started when HDZ came to power. But not to spend more time on what more or less the entire Croatian public knows I'm going to say something real about the very essence of this law. So what do we do as a major novelty? The changes in terms, so much more of the property report will not be reported, but property cards, as we have so far called. Well, we won't have any more officials in terms of this law, we'll have taxpayers. It's this big reform. Too bad we haven't changed the body's name, because something that's a permanent professionally independent state body per difolt can't be called a commission anymore. The commission is those bodies that meet ad hoc to solve some kind of trivial case. Obviously, your intensity is that one preventative anti-corruption body really remains trivial. This morning, in the replica, I asked the Secretary-General to at least try to explain what the innovations are, which is really new, so that it would at all justify the adoption of a new law, not a mere amendment and addition, so he said that the new officials are now significantly expanding, or according to the new taxpayer, and then he listed the director of HRT, HANFA, HERA, the Personal Data Protection Agency, the Commissioner for Information, the Director of the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund. Well, dear HDZ, these are all duties since 2013. covered by the scope of this law. So do we remember the 2013 Goran Radman case? Or you think all our citizens are like aquarium fish, so they forgot all that. I assure you they're not. As for what the minister explained, this law now introduces the regulation of private relations, the obligation to declare, the ban on decision-making in a case of interest, all of which existed in the law, and therefore the proceedings were carried out. These were the famous principles of action. Those principles are really bothering you, that's what you've been removing from this law and you've been imputing all day that it's kind of my legacy. Well, since that's the most pressing thing for you, that's what you want to kill, why don't you just call this law Lex Oreshkovic? And those principles weren't fictional. To clarify, there was once a legal obligation for all officials to ask for the opinion of the commission in doubt about these ethical principles. And the largest range of practices not since 2016. when decided in the case of Tomislav Karamark, but literally since the first day of the first session of 2013 Furthermore, more cases have been resolved through the opinions given by the Commission, and these opinions concerned the principles of action than were those in which the law is violated, and you have now, in this law, come up with the idea that when an official or an official asks for an opinion, he will now ask whether it is in accordance with any obligation under the law. Well, it's like a citizen asking the MUP now if I went through the red is it legal or not. This is the reach and level of HDZ thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76070	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76071	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Dalia, they're not...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76072	For you, colleague Oreshković. When I like you, I'll let you call me by my name.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76073	No, there's no problem. Dear colleague Oreshkovic...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76074	I'm asking you, colleague Oreshkovic, that's not the way to talk to a pay phone like that, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76075	You are full of thanks for your time and achievements in, while you were leading the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, and I stress to you, we have not removed the principles of action, they are also in the proposal for a law that we are discussing today and the HDZ said that the commission cannot decide as you yourself have given authority to decide by these principles, but is said by the court, just as the verdict explained that you did not opt out while you were chairman of the commission in the case against the late mayor Bandic, and you should because your office was in business relations with the City of Zagreb. That's what you had to know as a lawyer, and you're constantly moralizing us here and calling us HDZ people that we've removed something because it's in our best interests. No, we just respect the court's decisions. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76076	Thank you. Dear Representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76077	Yes, the importance of the principle was spoken of by GRECO, the same GRECO, the world bank and other relevant international institutions that took us as an example of good practice. So here are the other opposition clubs, ask SDP, ask We can!, ask whoever you want to have something against the commission making decisions about violations of principles or it bothers only you. And as for the Constitutional Court's decision, the fact is, the Constitutional Court made the decision it made, neither the first nor the last wrong decision of the Constitutional Court, and the fact is that the president of that constitutional court, Mr. Šeparovic, sat in a tavern and enjoyed the fish and wine with Mr. Branko Bačić, so I ask you whose conflict of interest it was and whose violation of impartiality and integrity. As for Milan Bandic, then draw out the decision a little bit, so block with it the public. As far as my office is concerned, he hasn't done business with the City of Zagreb since 2013, so before I became chairman of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76078	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76079	Thank you very much. Comrade Oreshkovic, you have told us this way that we are not very clear and we can respect it, obviously you are, and you will now tell us that the courts are destroying in order what you wrote there in scientific terms, telling politicians that they are in conflict of interest, in a potential conflict of interest, that they have violated the principles of action, etc., why do these courts write it when you are clear, we are none, and the courts know by yours, why, that we have a problem in the system? Secondly, you cannot tell us how, after the time you were coming down from the commission, you were able to get in touch with the public company very quickly and how these jobs happened, to find out more, to see who has moral principles or no moral principles, tell us more. Ha, then this story with the City of Zagreb, if that's no good either, so what's the principle of action, is the president of the commission herself to judge or not, tell us that we also know nothing but you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76080	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76081	When you ask why now, now the courts are destroying the answer, you know why. These same courts of first instance, administrative courts, all first-degree administrative courts in the Republic of Croatia have for years confirmed the practice of the commission, and thus confirmed the decision in the Tomislav Karamark case, and then the high administrative court said literally the same thing, the problem arose in a constitutional court that had no courage, had to and honour that I had solved the case until the end but there was a pilot wash of his hands and returned the subject to the administrative courts for a new procedure in this without contesting a single fact which was in the case of the fortification. It should be said that there are those judges of the High Administrative Court who are appalled by the fact that the High Administrative Court has changed its practice without calling a general session of all judges of that court. That says enough about how the rule of law fell when you over the judiciary put a noose around your neck.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76082	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić. Please not from the bench. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76083	Dear MPs, you were the head of the Committee for Conflict of Interest and when you started working, I must say that the Croatian public was surprised by the zeal that you started working with your team and there were various decisions. I'd like to ask you if you don't mind listing two, three choices that you think are the most important decisions when you're headed by a conflict of interest committee on the one hand, means one question. And the second question is, a new law that will come into effect after these votes that will have limitations in relation to the law that was when you led the conflict of interest committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76084	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76085	I can't tell you what would be the most important decision, all decisions were equally important to me and all opinions were equally important to me, whether it was the deputy municipal chief, the Prime Minister or the president of the state. What was most important in the commission's work during my term of office, and I think it's important today today during this new assembly is that there are no untouchable or untouchable there were neither to be nor to be. This is why HDZ now destroys the legacy of the commission, because it was built as an institution that worked responsibly, professionally, broke standards, established some new rules and ethics and ways and approaches to work. All that was done by the commission was public, it was made public, and it is also one of the institutes that HDZ is now erasing from the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76086	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76087	Yes, I would have agreed with you if that time had not been untouchable, therefore every commission as well as in the extreme case I had discussed the DORH the other day, so I commended Bajic and the state at that time, which is the only one of the few countries that arrested the prime minister, he is one of the few top state attorneys who arrested the prime minister, so that's a key rule. No untouchable is the only way we can go forward in any party. And there's a conflict of interest in the new city authorities, but we don't want to talk about them. So, I was startled by this, that they removed the principle of action in terms of prevention. Well, that's crucial, I mean, solve the case before it comes to you, so it's crucial, and I'm asking the minister to work on it. It's crucial, it's prevention that's the mask you wear to the ministers that got the vaccine or you'll die. So return that, it is terribly important to allow filters where they can be made, regardless of who put it in the Rules of Procedure, whether Oreskovic, Mrs Oreskovic or Mrs Novakovic this is incredibly important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76088	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76089	Dear colleague. Let us all not lie together and admit openly, the law will be passed the way HDZ wants it, which means that these principles of action will not exist as they have so far. And it's not that big a problem either, let's say that these two, three years are the swan song of this or this HDZ, I don't expect to get a chance to behave again, and then we have to sit down again all the cups at the table, right here in the constituencies and figure out what our anti-corruption system is going to look like from prevention to repression. And we can talk about whatever we want now, it's simply a fact that whatever Bajic is, he has his sins, too, but the fact is that we had a situation where the state's attorneys were able to conduct investigations and carry out criminal proceedings against the prime minister, and today we have a situation where USKOK rejects criminal charges against Andrej Plenkovic and his ministers as members of the Borg group, without even opening an investigation into the case, and what they were about to investigate is terrifying, much worse than the indictment that went up against Ivica Todorovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76090	The next replica is respected MPs Irena Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76091	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues. How do you comment on the orders of the Member State? 36. What are the conditions for selecting the president and members of the committee under which this proposal requires that two members and the president are lawyers? I believe that the law should state that all members of the commission must have completed a graduate and university study of the legal profession, but that it is necessary to prescribe for the chairman of the commission the condition of the legal examination passed. Given the fact that it is taken of the view that the commission should normally be regulated solely as an administrative body which, when deciding within its jurisdiction, will use professional legal knowledge, the question arises whether these should be exclusively legal? How do you comment on such a proposal regarding the conditions for selecting the president and members of the committee? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76092	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76093	Thank you, colleague. In that part, in relation to the conditions for the election of presidents and members of the HDZ commission, it has laid down the criteria here to further degrade the role and importance of this anti-corruption body. The minimum is that the chairman of the commission must have a legal exam. As far as the other members are concerned, it's useful to have more lawyers, but in itself it's not enough either. I think that the law should lay down additional criteria and conditions, which is knowledge of specific matter from the domain of conflict of interest, knowledge of certain international standards, knowledge of foreign languages, foreign professional literature, a whole set of other conditions that would guarantee that we will really have professionals here who will be able to improve standards. The first assembly laid some groundwork, some first steps to this should have been made upbuilding, and what's happening now is that the whole structure is completely collapsing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76094	Thank you very much. The next one will be addressed by a respected representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76095	First of all, one mathematical question, I really want to know how you're going to get at least two lawyers elected in a secret vote in HS. That's the first question. So obviously there will have to be two lists, one with lawyers, and the other will not be a legal commission. As far as this is concerned, I want to say one defeating fact, since the Commission started working on a conflict of interest decision, HDZ has not lost any elections. So it started in 2012, somewhere on 13th, and since then HDZ has been all the elections that, after that, the meaning of the law, the Law has not fulfilled its purpose. The party is convicted of corruption, legally. Her president was sentenced to several prison sentences for corruption, half of the government ended up either in custody or had to resign, we have anti-corruption and you continue to win. So what's it about? So the Commission was actually punishing the type of this conflict in public and public, that's to say if someone ended up in a Committee, and it was an incompatible duty, and then immediately punished him, and then he didn't report those plums and 4 peaches in the property card and so on, and so on, so on, those cases got undeserved media space and created the impression that they were all the same and then these more difficult forms that were haunted by the DORH and these mild or preventive forms that the Commission actually came into the same plane. The law on preventing conflicts of interest tells us this, all citizens are equal before the law, but officials will be punished for some things for which ordinary citizens will not be punished. In my opinion, the commission should also abolish the sentence of the Criminal Court. A few things would work out. Firstly, the sanctions would not be imposed by persons elected in the Croatian Parliament by the political body, by the parliamentary majority agreement that this commission was elected, because they voted only by ruling for the President of the Commission, we of the opposition have boycotted the elections in the past. In the end, it turned out that the rulings didn't get very happy with Mrs. Novakovic, because she obviously failed their expectations, but that's why she fulfilled our expectations, so here's some historical justice in that. The other thing is that when judges comment on a case, they won't make statements in the paper, so what Boris was saying about Mrs. Oreshkovic making me a political career, it won't be possible anymore. Of course, this can be understood as leading things to absurdity, but indeed if the Commission does not have this ethical role, which is that it writes what you did is wrong, and in Article 2 which speaks, which is the purpose of the Law among other things, strengthening trust, strengthening integrity, you should really leave the possibility to the Committee that, perhaps not in the form of a decision, but in the form of opinions or manifestations, it is manifested at the request of the official, not only as regards him, but also as regards another official. So, then I could make a request, if I had the chance to go on an official government plane to Finland, to a party rally, would that be okay, and it could give me an opinion within 15 days and according to this bill. So, this story with Article 5 she had, she has the next gene. For the first time, the Committee made the decision under Article 5, in the case of representatives of Denesh Soja, because of some debate or vote in the Assembly on the implementation of the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, il voted or discussed or spoke on some Committee or Committee, and he was the head of some Association that was financed by the National Minority Council. Afterwards, it became some standard that officials were used to, and it all worked until the case of Andrej Plenkovic was brought before the court. And then it started to get complicated. And to make one more point clear, Karamarko didn't leave because the Committee for Conflict of Interest made a decision, he left because he crashed his government and failed to form a new majority. And when he brought down his government, along with us, to help him, it was still for a while that he was going to create a new parliamentary majority without the Bridge and without his left opposition. And when that didn't work out then he resigned, so he didn't leave because he broke the law, but because he failed to form a new parliamentary majority, and with it in the elections you would have been badly past. To conclude, no measure to prevent corruption is enough, it is not enough when HDZ is in power, if you cannot make a better law, leave it in force as it is and we cannot support any authority that the Commission loses by this law, and we can support the new ones it gets. Regardless of the possible side effects in some interpretations, they become their own purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76096	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76097	Thank you very much. My colleague Bauk was great at talking about the board's ethical role. I would expand that, the ethical role of the Parliament, the ethical role of Parliament, the ethical role of parliamentary clubs, is probably in agreement with your colleague, Bauk. That's right. You put it in the beginning mathematically, so I'll just have a purely hypothetical question. You probably agree that between conflicts of interest and crime and corruption is a thin border. This experience has shown, not in Croatia. So, you're in conflict of interest, big or small, a chance to end up like, the USKOK defendant is big, big, big, or someone else... I don't know if there's that state and this Parliament, but what do you think if there's a state, if there's a representative club in a country that's been in its Advocacy Club since then, the police, the USKOK, jumped. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] What do you think this club has an ethical role to play? I don't know if it exists, but let's just say it's in Bundestag, at a light coalition there's this, such a representative, if you're predicting that a scoreboard coalition will last longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76098	Thank you. _Other Organiser Representative Bauk. [[Attack Rajko Ostojić: Or perhaps in the Croatian Assembly there is a Club of Representatives.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76099	What citizens think about the judiciary is the results of yesterday's elections in a county. What else is there to say? I don't think that Hoping is right every time, I don't think that the court is right every time, let's just say that one of my former colleagues who was in our club when he was convicted in the last session, Mr. Saucha, in my opinion if they asked me if he wasn't guilty. That's what I think, and the court will say in the appeal procedure, I think it's the secretary's fault, but well, that's my attitude. I can say it in the Parliament without it, so my colleague Saucha was at our club at the time until he moved to the parliamentary majority, then he was at that other club. I don't think that's why we, as a SDP, were at the time somewhat less credible, because others thought that maybe he wasn't guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76100	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague Bauk. You said in your statement that the Committee of Conflict of Interest should be abolished, that the powers of punishment should actually be transferred to a criminal court. Now I would like to hear if you were joking or meant it seriously or did you just want to give it to the dramatics of your debate because you know that this is part of our legal gain and that this amendment of the law is part of that which also complies with the recommendations of GRECO and the EU Commission, so that the abolition of the Commission and the non-adjudication of this Law I think would have other far-reaching legal consequences which I don't know how you could calculate with your mathematical model later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76102	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76103	All of what you listed, including part of seriousness, part of absurdity, part of the joke, and as far as GRECO is concerned, how they don't, forgive the great Greco, but I had to go over. I am not interested in what GRECO thinks, and I agree with President Milanovic. I think the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest was an experiment of Brussels bureaucracy over Croatia when I joined the EU, one of the first tasks I received as Minister of Administration to go to Brussels and try to make this law not to be what it is, we failed and we had to bring it in, we had to carry it out, no, HDZ brought it in, we had to implement it. Otherwise, the delegation included Deputy Prime Minister, today Mr Milosevic, Mr Kregar and Mr Sinisa Petrovic, and was co-ordinated by Orsat Milenić, so that the then prime minister of the government, whose member I was, was not some apologist, so on. independent bodies, and it was indeed an attempt to come up with the Commission in a different way at that time. Therefore I wasn't. I wasn't completely joking, but I was a little bit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] To express my view that this was a Brussels experiment in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76104	Dear Representative Pavić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76105	Your Honor, if we're looking hypothetically, we set things up so we can really lift that commission and go to criminal courts. We are all aware that each judge has some criteria, that each court has its own criteria. It is not the same whether you are tried in a big city, whether you are tried in a small town, whether you are courted in a large court or a small court, whether it is a small municipal court, a large court in Zagreb, so I think that would be a very big problem. Do you have any idea how to comply with the criteria in that verdict case?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76106	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76107	But many so-called. the controversial or difficult or known decisions of the Commission were made by revote. So in the Committee itself there were different criteria about what conflict of interest is, which is not a conflict of interest, which are the powers of the Commission, which are not. So whenever decisions are made in a number of degrees, so because he has the right to appeal or to file a administrative dispute, it eventually comes to one court. In this case now as it is set, it is the High Court of Management, this would be the High Court of Infringement, but there is always some court in that sense highest. So even now that the Commission sanctions you can direct the administrative dispute and go to 2 degrees. It wouldn't make a difference. What I have mentioned is that the criminal court, therefore, is one thing when you are punished by the court, and the other is when you are punished by a body elected in parliament by political agreement. This body has been chosen by political agreement because it is already on the board for, on the parent board, any clear who the ruling majority wants in the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76108	- Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76109	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, colleague Bauk. So, we have a certain experience with the work of the Committee, so it has already been seen, the application of the law somewhere since 2013, and now in 2021, we have even two different leaders in the work of the Commission and what I have had the opportunity to hear and see and hear that, that there is a certain dissatisfaction with certain provisions of the Law or the way in which these provisions apply in the follow-up procedure. It seemed to me that when it comes to the new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, that the first or the starting position should be to see what was the problem so far in the implementation and that what was in the implementation was the problem was put together in a way that was clear and feasible, but through all this together we got one Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which actually the work of the Committee absolutely marginalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76110	Time, thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76111	So a fundamental political debate in this House on this Law is going on this article, on the principles of action, which is paradoxical. Still, there's no punishment at all. So the Committee says this wasn't right for you and someone's going to read it and then they're going to say, look, these are talking nonsense or not, what they wrote is good. As well as judgments. We are in this House, I think, a few years ago, holding a moment of silence to a person who was convicted of war crimes a day before. Is that what happened? What were we thinking about that verdict? We wrote, most of them said unfair, etc., according to that,... The commission, The Hague Court, the Supreme Court, this court, will each have an opinion on this, and citizens will not decide on politicians based on doctoral dissertation, but ultimately on the basis of impressions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And said the prime minister, the commission is doing reputation damage to the team, and that's why they're, why this is going to be lifted per article. Six, at least in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76112	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76113	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, distinguished ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, here I am, one of those who has been listening very closely to this debate since this morning, and all of this time, and I think I can apostrophe a few things that I think are very important, to prevent conflict of interest, to prevent corruption is certainly something that changes and perception, but ultimately, it also changes what is called basic postulate states. But I'd say this whole debate went completely wrong. Here are some things that have nothing to do with this law or will improve the political scene. Well, although politics should not only be discussed, politics is not the only segment of Croatian society where certain things happen in slow and individual terms. Peja Grbin says this morning on behalf of the club this is the way to even greater corruption. Is it possible that someone who has legal experience, someone who is a lawyer by profession, who has a long internship in the Croatian Assembly can so easily fire a thesis that will easily sit in the ears of some people who ideologically have against HDZ or any other party something and immediately begin to interpret this whole story wrongly. Mrs. Oreshkovic also says this is not the only wrong decision of the Constitutional Court, so who will believe the Constitutional Court if each of us interprets that some decision of the Constitutional Court is wrong. The Constitutional Court is the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia and we say no, so here they are wrong because it's me, so they made a mistake, they didn't make a good decision because if they had made a good decision, then they wouldn't have touched me. I don't think we're sending a good message to the absolute Croatian public, this is a law that certainly helps conflict of interest, corruption in Croatia is much lower than it might be right now. I'd be wondering what you'd be talking about here today all day if it wasn't, if it wasn't for some case of the Grill, so if it wasn't going in the context of exactly what the Ministry wants to apologize to. No untouchable, no untouchable. Anyone who wants to put their fingers in a jam will pay the price. They will pay the price based on what the legislator wanted to tell anyone who wanted to deal with politics. But let's not be honest with each other from here, let's not send messages that young people who want to deal with politics are essentially driven by this policy, and in 5 or 10 years, we're going to have a terrible problem with any political option finding quality candidates to be either local leaders or part of regional self-government, ministry or anything. Why? Because we are selectively conducting, or from this pay phone, we are selectively choosing the topics that are important. So here two days ago, a pop of me political nonsens, we're all talking about corruption, we're talking about some things that are unscathed, they're not good, so we picked a man with 80% mayor two days ago, with 80% of the votes the man who came and said I was guilty, I didn't have to take, I'm resigning and we re-elected him for a regional leader in two months, so if it wasn't the wrong message, it's me, it's me. Well, then, here's a little penance, a little bit of ash, that's for Mattie Posavac, okay, but for our leader, that's a mortal sin. Let's not do that. That's not good. I think that this law is trying to get into the measure of things, that every official knows in advance, means that he knows in advance what he might be waiting for if he does things that are not in line with what this law has prescribed. Of course this law won't solve all the problems we have, but let's go, let's get to it. Therefore, here are all of you who participated in this debate, I say carefully listen, I would like to say that we point out here Mr. Ostojić had one, one good remark, mentioning some good practice. Why do we always mention only bad practices, let us mention some people who have been in politics for 30 years, and have never had any problems preventing conflicts of interest or any other law of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76114	Mrs. Katarina Peovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76115	Here's a thank you for your presentation of colleagues. Can you then answer if there is no untouchable what your Chief of Staff is doing to Segeta former Vinko Zulim Virulica called 28 years in the post of head, chief, and one day he was voted president of the HDZ Segeth, the other day his son was awarded a concession for which even experts don't know what it really means, some drainwater, something that no one has seen, if there is no untouchable and what we are talking about then. How can you have a 28-year-old man who spends 300,000 kuna only on a lunch team, one lunch cost him 7,000 kunas that a minimum worker earns for 2 months he ate in one day or a few hours means on that lunch otherwise he's a fan of lamb.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76116	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76117	I don't know if he's a fan of lambs or if he had such guests who love, like lambs, but joke aside. Mrs. Peovic, I'm not a judge and I really don't want to judge anyone with this pay phone for anything or Vinko Zulim. What you read in the daily paper, that's what I read. And now if I were to interpret what you're saying would at least be inappropriate on my part, and on my part, and on the other hand, we all want that effective judiciary, we want a judiciary whose perception in the public will be much better, which will be trusted, and why then we take on the role of both the caddies and the judges. It's a little bit, it's a little weird and I sometimes get disgusted with how much we dare essentially condemn and abuse people, and that, in fact, apart from the article in the paper, we don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76118	Mr. Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76119	Thank you. Dear fellow Ivanovic, we get along relatively well in the debates, you're a smart man, but there's not one stinger, there's a basket full of stingers, that's the problem. I know you have to defend me, that I'm in your situation, and I'd probably have to do that and defend some of my people. But these people, however, do not do good to you or to your strangers or to all of us. And all those from other parties who have sinned about something and have been in conflict of interest, here I will start from my county, from my city of Kutina, Mayor Babic, his president of the council, political corruption, Ivo Žinić, who is no longer the mayor of God, Roman Rosavec who has tunneled cars to others and that I do not now list all the regrets that exist, I don't think we will solve it with this law either. Here's what I'm sorry for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76120	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76121	Thank you. I have no directive that I have to defend or defend someone from this pay phone, however, even more than I belong to a group of politicians, as well as most of my colleagues here at the HDZ Club who have made clear the opening statement on behalf of the Club, the zero rate of tolerance as well as the zero rate of violence against women or anything else. I don't think that HDZ has any figure in its pocket, this is a selective approach that exists in Croatia, of course, to confuse the public and to make honest statistics and mathematics of everything that has been in these 30 years, about who would then be and which scale would be exceeded. So it's not a measure. The criterion is that tolerance towards corruption is really reduced to 0, that anyone who puts his fingers in a jam must be responsible and bear serious consequences and not pour ashes and participate in politics again, it is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76122	Mrs. Mariana Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague Ivanovic, for keeping morals and ethics then we probably shouldn't have laws, but we see in practice that things look different, so it's important that the laws we bring have a certain effect. To gain that speed, efficiency and transparency which this law should ensure so that no one is harmed. Not to harm the public interest, but not to harm the official, because we heard through some discussions that there were also reports that were not founded or acted by the Committee that were borderline. But you have touched on a theme that despite various situations, those officials who have found themselves in a jam are still elected. So it's terribly demoting for those politicians who are looking for the common good and who really want to contribute by their efforts and work to move things forward. So what do you tell the young people? Whether to enter politics or not when the people reward those who are actually bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76124	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76125	Oh, yeah. That's probably how thesis and the Maxes that are often used in politics were created, and that's how you're all the same. Not all people can be the same, not all politicians are the same, not all actions are the same, not all actions are the same, but often it is put under that denominator in the people, and then we have that problem. This particular case that you were talking about, and I touched it myself in an individual debate, is not a good message of youth that today needs to take responsibility for the management of a system called the Croatian State, why, because I can read absolutely nothing from it. They're confused. I admit it, I'm guilty, but I've been re-elected. What kind of message is that? Such a message cannot exist in public communication, it cannot be citizens who will punish or not. It must be the institutions that implement the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Citizens are here to assess whether they want to support something or not, but not to comply with the laws of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76126	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76127	Your Honor, I'd like to describe to you how our laws on conflict of interest are currently functioning, on their own example. There you go. So, if you become an official like I became, you should give the property card. That's right. It's visible to everyone. After that, after a year, the bank calls me, calls my son, calls my wife, calls my mother-in-law who doesn't live with me, gives some statements, statements, and eventually my mother-in-law becomes a political person for two or three days. So my younger son, whose politics are absolutely not interested in becoming a politically exposed person. And when I threaten to leave the bank, that doesn't make any sense anymore, then it's some sort of ID, but I'm still a politically exposed person. These things need to be changed in legislation, and this right here, it's just cosmetics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76128	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76129	Yeah, I've been through it the same way myself. But I don't have one, I don't have a grudge. The fact that they asked me to back up where I got that money from buying a used car is a good thing for me. That's a good thing. It says there that little house, the politician, right now the blink of red, and I had to explain to me where I got that x thousand kuna I bought that car for. I think that's good. I think it's a good thing there's no money you can't prove where you got that money from. And I don't think that's wrong, that's not wrong. Now, of course those bad guys will try to drag your mother-in-law and your son and all that. Now that is the problem of this Croatian articulation of any law because we are implementing it selectively and we are applying it to only one group and the other one is going under the radar, and that should certainly change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76130	They didn't call my mother-in-law. I'd like to see them call her. Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76131	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. Here's even though we've been hearing all day from the opposition that this bill is actually a step back I wouldn't agree with it. A circle of debtors has spread as the minister himself stressed, not to a small number, to all our councilmen, from municipal, city councils to county congregations. On board members, so it's a huge number of new taxpayers, and I think it's a good thing, and all those who act directly with public money management duties, which are with executive authority and representative bodies, I think they have to be in that context in some way. But it's not just that. So this law is introduced, it will shorten in fact and the period of conduct, the procedures will be faster. We've got two steps now, and it's going to be dealt with practically in one step. That means we wanted to achieve efficiency after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76132	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76133	Yeah, I'm glad you're here before the end of this debate, she's slowly coming to an end pointing out a few important things. The circle of officials to whom the law now extends is very, very important in preventing conflicts of interest. There's no talking here. What I will support as a representative, and you, in the replica of Mr. Bačić, have articulated here that little part of the cooling, when it comes to local self-government leaders, can be a problem for people who have been mayors for many years, mayors and if they have resigned, can not be kindergarten directors in their local environments. Maybe something you should see, think about, think about. But in any case, a lot of things in this law are also in favour of the benefit of the Croatian society that we want to cleanse of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76134	And Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76135	You expressed your fellow surprise or otherwise expressed yourself negatively about the choice of Mr. Posavac as mayor in Međimurje. Yes, he was detained, released because he confessed, ran and won. By law, if he is sentenced to a certain sentence, his term of office will cease. If he's sentenced to a lesser sentence, his term won't stop. So the council has already given one limit to tolerance as much as you can be a criminal, and that you can remain an official. But it doesn't even matter at this point. What's more interesting is that the eclectic example of abuse of citizens' trust for me was as one king and emperor together as former mayor of Zagreb. Now, his party was the foundation of the ruling majority in the previous meeting, and even after it was no longer needed in the Assembly, your party still supported him in the Zagreb City Assembly. Therefore, before any sentence about Posavac only to take over us the spirit of Milan Mandic there... That's it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76136	Time. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76137	Thank you, Honorable Representative Bauk. So here's what I told Mrs. Jelkovac before the end of this debate and this part of your replica, the questions you want to ask me, and in fact send a much wider message than I am as Goran Ivanovic for this speaker just proves that in Croatia the problems will be resolved very, very slowly. Because we cannot get out of these maximums that are used both in the political jargon and in everyday life, and they significantly prevent the development of a better society and Croatia deserves to be a much better society. Therefore, we Parliamentarians are certainly the ones who can do much about it, it is only a matter of whether we want to or will be satisfied with this left-wing bickering and that will be all of our political engagement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76138	Thank you, too. You don't have any more replicas. We are now going to final discussions in front of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, Mrs Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76139	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs, here I am going to rely on this last little verbal duel between my colleagues Bauk and my colleagues Ivanovic. We also talked about the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Of course, we should respect them all in terms of their existence and their content, but that does not mean that we should not or should not comment on them. Of course not all decisions made by the Constitutional Court are controversial. Only some are contentious, they are controversial, which favoured the daily-political interests of HDZ. One such decision concerned former mayor Milan Bandic. It is necessary to return at that time to remind our citizens that the Constitutional Court has applied the diametrically opposite criteria. For example, for Marina Lovrić Merzel asked that she give up her public functions to lift her detention, and that is when Milan Bandic came to order then there were 15 million reasons to make a different decision. I therefore refer to the amount of guarantees and the way the Constitutional Court has disputed its own decision and that guarantee, instead of charging in the state budget, gave back to the late Hanžekovic, who gave the guarantee. But to be clear, that's not the point. You've talked a lot about this, HDZ people, can anyone who acted as chairman of the committee get into politics? Well, it's obviously more natural for you and more normal that someone can get out of Remetinco and then you don't just hold the council majority, but also be a chip generator, but as someone as an independent professional, start an independent career. I, too, have entered the Croatian Parliament and politics on the basis of my professional results in the work and on the basis of what the public recognized unlike most of you who, without the HDZ party card, would not be elected even as president of the home council. And if it bothers you as much as you can or can't have someone who led the anti-corruption body please take a good look at the example of Slovenia, there we had a famous Klemenčić as the director of their Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, who later entered the Government of Mira Cerar and was one of the better justice ministers. Basically, this law should be seen as a law that does not confirm that your thesis of a zero rate of fight against corruption, but zero tolerance rates for successful, meaningful anti-corruption bodies and the introduction of a zero efficiency rate in the anti-corruption system. So no repressive body can function if 99% of corruption is prevented. This prevention goes through determining the violation of the principle, because not all politicians' actions can be predetermined as forbidden. For example, there is no law that can prescribe that the prime minister of the state cannot appoint as our diplomatic representative and a whole number of others in a Kumic relationship. However, what is key to missing in this law, and it has never been designed properly, for example, is the ban system and that is where Slovenia also went a few steps further. When I talk about bans, I mean explicitly prescribed bans on people who can't get into business relationships. I would support any solution that would say, for example, that any official cannot have a company that operates not only with, let's say that it is the mayor of the city, but also with the companies or institutions that the city is founded or managed by. Such bans should have been extended, strengthened and established by some new standards. What you said was that you introduced a whole series of new taxpayers. Many of the people you mention have long been within the reach of the commission. So here's one of the ones that's mentioned here as a novelty are the directors of the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, it used to be DAB. As the former director of the DAB, the public only knows part of it. So, it's a person who's been resisting for many years that after being sanctioned by the commission, after losing her first-degree and second-degree procedure, the commission has sued or sued the state for damages, it seems to me for some 100,000 interests due to mental pain injury, because the commission has determined that it was in violation of the law. [[Intruder: Time]] It is a mental set of thinking heard today from the ranks of the ruling HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76140	- Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic in front of the club of representatives of HSS and RF, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76141	Thank you. Well, here's the thing, after all, I'm going to say something that I always want to say in a debate like this. About anti-corruption policies I'm somewhat more skeptical about how anti-corruption policies can solve all problems and I think it's very important to say that because of the people watching these discussions. It is therefore necessary to fight corruption, of course, but it is necessary to clearly indicate the achievements and restrictions of anti-corruption policies. I will mention two examples that I always mention, so China is on that scale of perception of corruption 15 places above Croatia, so it does not prevent it from being the largest, one of the world's largest economic forces. Italy in the '90s when it was one of the world's seven largest and richest countries, its government was perceived as a highly corrupt government. But I'm going to give you two more examples, so what's really important is to figure out how much we can actually do with anti-corruption policies. It's a mix of offers and Revising Doors strategy, so the question is whether everything can be understood and subdued under the law of this type and you have the meaning of a mik offer, these are situations where several companies agree that one is winning the competition, and these are physically appearing and you have a situation in which everything is satisfied nominally, so we have a legal and legally implemented public offer. The second thing is Revising Doors Strategy. So we have often condemned Minister Zdravko Maric here for coming from Agrokor to the government. But that means in America a completely legal policy strategy where managers of wealthy and large companies go to the government and vice versa. It's a lobbying that's completely legalized to say so in these Western corruptions, meaning something we call corruption sometimes is also a question of whether corruption is, no, what I want to say is not that anti-corruption policies should not be implemented, but that we really need to be aware of the limitations and I really need to give that example of the Pripuza that is now winning the contest. Why is he winning the contest? So because he created a monopoly, because he's been building a monopoly for years, and that's what you never ask me for the first million bucks, and now it's pretty clear that he can't really do it anymore, that he's the most competitive, I mean it's just like that, but since he's come to this competitiveness, he's not asking anymore. That's how much I think we still need to set up some frameworks of these anti-corruption policies. I know it's not popular, and I have to say that many parties are building their image on these anti-corruption policies, but what we do, why do we have to tell that social majority? Because they expect that when someone comes to power that simply that shift will get rid of everything and then people become completely demoted to even go to elections and even deal with politics because they're all the same. There is simply a framework that has been created for years, and the framework in which we act is really, that is to say, the periphery of capitalist Europe in which the poverty of most, the social majority is the reason both for corruption and for clientism and for the way in which certain things are solved in some ways means at all not amnesting those who enter these corruption deals. That is why I would really question both myself and alone, only this legal framework, in any case I welcome, let's say that, I said this already, according to the existing provisions of the head of clinics, the head of clinical institutions and the head of the institution of a medical institution cannot be included in the private sector, but should also be added to the director, deputy director and assistant director. Quite specifically, I think it's bad that it's been kicked out of the law and that there's still pressure from some lobbies that aren't good. It is very important for us that public health be public health, not that doctors and doctors use public health as their own, as their own pool. Furthermore, it means in the property card report, that they called it a property card, it is good, but it also needs to know why they serve property cards, not to accuse some MPs of being rich and MPs, but to determine at the beginning and end of the term of office how much the representative and MPs have, rather than how rich he is at the moment he enters the assembly. And I also wanted to mention what counterpart Dalia Oreskovic mentioned in the case of Maria Hrebac. I was pleased to see here that amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and the Director of the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency will be covered by this law, but it is obvious that he was already, or the Director was covered by this law. She was already in the third term at that, at the head of that institution and in a rather suspicious way she came into conflicts of interest and is still there, no one calls her out either She's leaving her place. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76142	Mrs. Sandra Bencic will represent the views finally, the views of the Green-Left bloc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76143	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I asked Minister Malenica today how the commission can sanction some completely hypothetical situation so that some phantom prime minister can take control of us, take a government plane and put his party colleagues into it and take them to a party rally in, say, Helsinki to see some colleagues from other countries and to be warmed up by cold beers in the north. I did not receive an answer because the use of public funds for party purposes was not recognised as an important part of preventing conflicts of interest and prevention of corruption as if we did not have such cases and as if this hypothetical case here had not been realised in reality by Prime Minister Plenkovic, and closed it so that he refused to give travel orders and documentation to the commission. Punishment for what you said yourself, 2,000 kuna. Listen, it's already worth it on one plane ticket. But this is not the only example, we have witnessed at any pre-election time to bomb us with floods of billboards paying units of local self-government from public budgets or government from public budgets that advertise schools, hospitals, kindergartens, roads built by public money in office and some local or national governments as if these governments or administrations should be advertised because they have a competition on the other hand, they have competition on the market. So it is clear that they do not advertise a clear administration or a national government, it is clear that they are advertising their party to public money. What mechanism in this law can detect it? What mechanism can punish that? In what way? So, another important question is also the issue of prevention or detection of corrupt activities, in our opinion, the possibility of the commission to examine the origin of the property of the taxpayers of this law in cooperation with the IRS. So, we don't have an explicit provision that would allow the commission to check the property card if there are indications of disproportionate property and income, what did you colleagues of Peovic say at the end of the term, but what about when you see it? Therefore, to order the IRS to carry out the procedure for determining the origin of the property. In that sense, we will also conclude with this law. So neither the basic prerequisite for doing so is fulfilled. The circle for which bonds report property is not extended to adult children, so we were not surprised so many times when we saw the descendants of our officials driving cars worth half a million kunas to more, having hotels, valuable concessions, big businesses, and they were just beginning to shave. But since these assets are of age, they do not have to be listed in the property card, so the procedure is clear, if you want to bail out, you transfer them to the children and that property remains hidden from both the public and the IRS. Of course, there's land, for example. Someone suggests that there's some poor little forest on our island, but the forest burned down in a fire by some accident, so the official said to re-purpose a worthless forester into a building plot that will sell 400, 500 euros per square to some up-to-date investor, there will be a wonderful hotel, a concreteized coast, a ban on planting trees so that as many decks and umbrellas as possible can be rented, and we've solved another wonderful piece of our coast. What about cases like that? What about such cases where it was clear that it could have been prevented from responding in time? No, we'll only detect this case when it depletes these 400, 500 euros per square. Why? Because we won't be able to act on the principles of action. Therefore, none of this will be seen in the property card until that moment and none of the above will resolve this Law on conflict of interest and will remain out of the reach of the commission unfortunately. And we can say that this law tells Croatian citizens the opposite of what Cesic Rojs once told them because this law says that whoever is a cave will continue, if it is known to which party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76144	Now it's Mr. Krunoslav Katičić's turn to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the final after this debate that's been a lot of it, but it can be sublimed into a few points that show up. Unfortunately, some of the good things of the text proposed are not in some way affirmed, so I feel the duty to point out that part in this final address as well. What I have said means all the complaints that go on as regards the donation of the origin of the property, already mentioned article. Article 5, i.e. the present Article. The 6th is about the ethical code, so here's the idea of re-purposeing the agricultural into construction. Unfortunately, here's what I have to do as a lawyer to try to demystify some things. There are also mentions of adult children. We also have to bring this into connection with the donation, and I think it's getting into one constitutional category, and that means having the right to have the right to own it, I don't see what kind of... connection that part could be restricted by one lex specialis relative to that part. As regards the very origin of the property or the determination of disproportionateness in trade, it is also subject to some other legal regulations so that I think double regulation of some institutes that exist is not good. Namely, the establishment of a disproportionate property exists in both the Penal Code and the General Tax Law, so I think these are real addresses that can help in that part of the property and help if such an event occurs. So to transfer it to an innocent commission and be based on only one law, I don't think it's economical, it's not legal, it's not transparent. As far as the principle is concerned, it is already more mentioned, so it remains in an unaltered form of remarks as from the opening address on behalf of the Club, one changes the word, the official to the obligor, means it becomes entirely in the text as it has become since 2011 and known and the general public, and I think that in some way it has established itself. As for the re-use of agricultural land in construction land, she already mentioned, I don't know now which of the colleagues, I think it's very well explained, there are a number of legal premises that such a part, i.e. that such a change to, mutilates and makes it so that now again putting it in the field of one law is I mean irresponsible and there's no need for that. One institution that was quite interesting in the public is, unfortunately, missed, and not even mentioned, it seems to me to be in the debate and it is specifically about the proposal for the exemption of presidents and members of the Committee, this institute exists in all laws, procedural ones, so I think it is a good solution to apply the provisions of the general administrative procedure in that part, so that it will be clearly known to be able to define at which time and when and from which such application for exemption is possible. And the solution proposed is that within three judges, the High Administrative Court, but the non-public session, decides on such a request, I think it's more than good. To conclude, again, I think that the debate, no matter what, was constructive, that it gave some certain solutions that are quite good and saddens me to the fact that the opinion that we should be in these cases and the prosecutor and the court, which is not good, I think we should, would always ask that we be a two-body body and that there is known who has their task in accordance with the law. So for the end, as I said, we will support this legislative proposal in the first reading. I believe that these amendments, which have significantly improved the work of the Commission itself, will create standards that will ultimately become a principle based on exactly this legal law, and this is also in some way an answer to the objections which concern the principle already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76146	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Arsen Bauk, who will represent the SDP's Club's views, will also be final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76147	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club will not support the bill on preventing conflicts of interest in first reading. We believe that the current law needed certain repairs, but not in a way to deny the Commission's right to assess the actions of officials based on Article 5, that is, in this case, Article 6. I think it would be better if the Commission's decisions on the principles of action were then put in place as opinions and to prescribe a different way of making such opinions. As for some other solutions in the Law, it means repairing the observed shortcomings, certain procedural, procedural, and other things that the Commission itself has proposed. However, I would like to draw attention here once again to why we believe that Article 6 is the one who distinguishes citizens, officials from citizens and the one why officials have to pay special attention to how they behave. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest shall state the prohibited activities of officials. I'll read some of them. A) to receive and demand the benefit or promise of benefit for the purpose of carrying out its duties. What is the difference between this and Article 293? A criminal law that speaks of bribery? Furthermore, c) To abuse the specific rights of the obligor arising or necessary for the performance of the duties. What is the difference between this and Article 291? Penalty law, abuse of position and authority? D) to receive additional compensation for the special behaviour of public duties, this is described as a acquisition without a basis in the Law on Mandatory Relations. Then, seek, accept, accept or receive the value or service for voting in any matter or affect the decision of a body or person for personal break and break of a connected person. Therefore, there are two crimes, bribery of representatives, or trade in influence. Promise employment or any other right in exchange for a gift or promise of gift, a re-trafficking of influence and bribery. This is why the Mayor of Posavec, because he gave tests to someone, so that would be it, that would be a violation, not even a felony. Furthermore, it affects the acquisition of transactions or public procurement contracts, so again Article 295 of trade influences. Use privileged information on the functioning of the national authorities for personal breakthrough or breach of the associated person, Article 257. Penalty law, abuse of privileged information. I (i) in any other way use the position of the obligors by affecting the decision of the public authority or persons employed in them in order to achieve a personal breakthrough or breach of the connected person, any privilege or right, conclude legal work or otherwise offer an interesting advantage to themselves or to another related person. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. This point i) in many ways can, but not entirely substitute the story of the principles of action, because this is quite broadly written, in which other way use the position, thought, word, work and failure, here I see that Mrs. Oreshkovic says that she would not, then well, but this is quite close to describing the crime of trade in influence, this is this fine border, I would ask the minister, who is also the minister of justice, to actually explain when receiving and demanding the benefit of performing a crime, and when it is a criminal offence that has to do with bribery. Which is a fine line that out of all of this I have, therefore, listed, who have their own panda in the Penal Code. So these are crimes, other than this acquisition without a basis which would therefore be more according to the Law on Mandatory Relations. In short, there's one symbolism. The proposal for a law to prevent conflicts of interest in 2010 and 11 proposed then by the minister of justice Bosnjakovic. That when HDZ is in power, then it's in the domain of the judiciary, then we came, and it's in the domain of the Ministry of Administration, and now there's the Minister of Administration and Justice, but there's also the State Secretary of Justice, so it's back in the judiciary, and that's all we need to know about the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76148	Yes, however, Mr. Bauk was not the sugar at the end, but the sugar at the end was Mr. Pavić, in front of the Social Democrats' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76149	Dear Chairman, thank you. Honorable ministers, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we had one in one part of a very heated debate, I think the conclusion of most of the opposition, most of the MPs from the opposition that the law doesn't actually make any big changes and that it won't be any better than it is so far. On the other hand, colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority feel that the Law is good and will achieve good effects. I think we can all agree that we will definitely have a much larger number of taxpayers who will actually have to file property cards and who will actually be bonds, or who will be able to process the Commission for conflict of interest. Which is also understandable, given that this is being extended to those who are at the head of public enterprises, who are, for example, the head of the agencies, at the head of FINA, HBOR, HAMAG bicro, director of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, and now not to list everyone else. However, the question is whether these legal provisions will really contribute to preventing conflict of interest, reducing such a number of cases and really preventing corruption. Unfortunately, we witnessed a few days ago when we heard that USKOK simply rejected the case of a colleague, namely Mrs. Žalac, who increased the price of software by about 6 to 7 times in the purchase of software. Which is actually catastrophic. And then after that, we have a state prosecutor here, who says she didn't have any information about it, and then yesterday in the paper, it turns out she was actually at a meeting she was familiar with, with that case, and she knew everything that was actually going on. What, then, does the legal framework mean to us, what do we mean by the positive legal rules, if we behave like this when we perform our duties? Where does that lead us? What law can prevent corruption if we act this way, if such a relationship is with the perpetrators, if nothing is actually done against them, if they come from the ruling party. So there's no such thing as luck. We need to change the way we work, we need to change the way we think, and without that, we're not going to achieve anything at all. Now, according to this law, we said a little before, there will be a lot more taxpayers, and don't forget that already one part of these debtors were before that and the primary obligor of the examination of the origin of the property. These include state officials, judges, board members and supervisory boards, majority-owned companies of the Republic of Croatia or local self-government units and so on. Who has been found to have a disproportionate amount of property, how many such cases, and whom has this property been taken away from? I think we can count them on the fingers of one hand. So such cosmetic legal changes won't help us fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76150	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the conditions are met. We're moving to the final item of the agenda today. It is - Final proposal for a law confirming the international Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Missing, Second Reading, PZ. No. 206; As you can see, it is a second reading, and it is worth all the provisions of another reading. The amendments can be made by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 207 (a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, would the applicant's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yes, Mr. Salapic, please. State Secretary at the Department of Justice and Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76155	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. We are discussing the Law on Confirming the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Peters. To begin with, I would only say that today we have had a debate on this law on the Committee on Legislatives and we accept the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 3. As far as the Convention in question is concerned, the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Violation was adopted at the UN General Assembly on 20 December 2006 and entered into force on 23 December 2010. So far, 98 UN members have signed the Convention, and 63 Member States are parties to the Convention. On 1 February 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the signing of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Violation. The Republic of Croatia also signed the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons since the forced disappearance of February 6th 2007. The purpose of this Convention is to fight more effectively against forced disappearances, protect the rights of victims of criminal offences, facilitate cooperation at national and international level in measures to combat forced disappearances and prevention measures at national and international level. The Convention provides for the incrimination of the following actions: forced disappearance, detention, kidnapping or any other form of denial of freedom committed by the official persons of the State, persons or groups of persons working with the approval, support or acceptance of the state, concealment of the fate or place of stay of the missing person, encouragement, coercion, order, initiation or participation in the conduct, attempted crime of forced disappearance, control of acts in connection with the crime of forced disappearance, knowingly neglecting data that clearly indicate the intention of committing a crime of forced disappearance because they clearly point to the crime of forced disappearance, to take the necessary and reasonable measures to prevent or combat the crime of forced disappearance. Given that the forced disappearances of persons pose not only a direct threat to freedom, the lives of individuals are also a wider social, or state problem. By confirming this Convention, the Republic of Croatia is joining an initiative to strengthen international cooperation mechanisms in preventing forced disappearances, but also to make sanctioning more effective. As regards the contact of the body in the Republic of Croatia, it is the Ministry of Justice and Administration, and the Ministry of Interior. We suggest that this law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76156	Thank you. Would anyone like to take a word on behalf of the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is Mr. Stipo Mlinarić from the Association of State Movement Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76157	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The International Convention on the Protection of All Persons From Forced Missing adopted the UN General Assembly on 20 December 2006, and entered into force on 23 December 2010. So far, 98 UN Member States have signed the Convention while 63 Member States are party to the Convention. At a meeting held on 1 February 2007, the government decided to initiate a procedure for signing the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Peters. The Republic of Croatia signed the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons since the forced disappearance of February 6th 2007. The purpose of this Convention is to prevent and combat the forced disappearance of persons by incrimination of certain acts, the protection of the rights of victims of criminal offences established in accordance with this Convention. Facilitating cooperation at national and international level in measures to combat forced disappearances as well as prevention measures at national and international level. For the Republic of Croatia, this Convention is of special importance, and as a state with direct experience related to cases of forced disappearance in the Homeland War, it would contribute to further curbing this phenomenon in all circumstances and global scales. What stands in the definition of the Convention is also an obstacle to the further conduct of the Republic of Croatia towards the provisions of the same Convention. I quote: “The Convention provides for the incrimination of the following actions: a forced disappearance which, within the meaning of this Convention, involves detention, kidnapping or any other form of denial of freedom committed by official persons of the State, persons or groups of persons working with the approval, support and acceptance of the State. So, what we can do in case the above-mentioned actions are taken by persons or groups who, in the area of a particular state, commit kidnapping, detention in this case, and experience teaches us to rarely add physical and psychological abuse, rape and ultimately take life, and those persons or groups act as armed rebel groups. In the case of Croatia, it is only with one intention to prevent the formation of an independent Republic and to create a state in most of its territory under the control of only one nation and one faith, the Serbian nation and the Serbian Orthodox Church. I'm going to remind you of one of the scariest examples of the horrors mentioned above, the case of Dr. Ivan Schreter's disappearance. August 18, '91. The years near Pacrac have been kidnapped by Dr. Ivan Šreter, leader of the Pakraski Croats and one of the leaders of the Croatian people in Western Slavonia. He was abducted near Pakrac, taken to the Serbian town of Buče where there was also a camp for the Croats and since then he has lost every lead. The disappearance of Dr. Ivan Schreter was a great blow to the patriots and defenders of Western Slavonia. He was the leader of the papal HDZ, which acted almost illegally because of local Serbs and the president of the Western Slavonia regional crisis headquarters. After the outbreak of a large-serb rebellion in '91. years of Dr. Schreter advocated non-violence, and called on Serbs to peace and cease terror that began to exercise. He pointed out by reason, well-being, and as a supporter of resolving disputes in a peaceful way. It is assumed that he was taken to the infamous Camp Buče where he suffered terrible torture. He was last seen on August 29, '91. A year. Before I continue, allow me to quote you article 6. The convention we're discussing today. Each State shall take the necessary measures to be considered responsible at least (a) any person who commits, orders, persuades or encourages the initiation or attempt to commit an accomplice because he participates in a forced disappearance; (b) a person who knew and knowingly ignored the information which clearly indicated that persons in its jurisdiction and authority are committing and intending to commit a crime of forced disappearance. An officer who has been directly responsible and supervised actions related to the crime of forced disappearance and a superior who has not taken all the necessary and reasonable measures that have been in its power to prevent or combat a crime of forced disappearance or to transfer the data to the competent authorities for investigation and persecution. Especially important are the parts in which a person who knew or consciously ignored the information and did not take all the necessary and reasonable measures to prevent a crime of forced disappearance. Why is that important, perhaps most important? Well, because in today's coalition government, Andrej Plenkovic, and here in the Assembly, there is a person who fits perfectly in the above mentioned paragraphs of Article 6. Convention. Of course, it's Mr. Pupov, which isn't in the assembly. Especially if you take into your hands the book of the late Slavko Degorcija, "It was not in vain" where the role of today's coalition partner of HDZ is described in detail. Now we return to the beginning of my presentation when I stressed that the Convention applies only to persons or groups of persons who work under approval, support or acceptance by the state not only in the case of Dr. Schreter, but in thousands of cases of forced and never found persons we face the truth which is deafeningly quiet we do not know where our missing and difficult to find out. The recent discovery of a mass grave between Bobota and Pacettin, which found the bodies of 10 people who had their hands tied to a wire, is only a fraction of that terrifying horror. Croatia is currently looking for another thousand 853 people and that is the only truth. Mrs. Maria Shestan has been searching for her son Tomislav for 30 years, and these are her words she said the other day in the cameras: “It's terrible when you come to a place like this, you see all this mud, rain, that pit with the remains of the people killed. I hope this time I get lucky to find out where my son's remains are. They can only pray, not require that those who have some information about the missing do so and say that it softens their heart so they know where to dig." That's what one mother says about the defender of Tomislav Sixan who was a member of turbo water and was with me all the time in the war. And to finish the words from the materials that are in front of us. A normative framework has been created in the Republic of Croatia, which allows for the prosecution and sanctioning of the perpetrators of the criminal offence of unlawful confiscation of freedom and the provision of assistance and protection to victims of that crime. An adequate improvement of the framework to contribute to the ratification of this Convention is also necessary in an effort to continuously improve the established system. The Home Movement supports all the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Disappearion and calls again primarily on Andrej Plenkovic, his Government and coalition partners to finally apply it in the territory of our country of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76158	Mrs Romana Nikolic will speak in front of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76159	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the Republic of Croatia, there are a thousand 853 missing persons on the list of 445 missing and 398 postmortem remains. In the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, there are 520 persons from Vukovar. Between Bobota and Pacetina in Vukovar-Srijem County, another 151th mass tomb has recently been found in Croatia. A large number of missing persons due to armed conflicts and human rights violations are a strong reminder of the failure to preserve individual rights and maintain the rule of law. They're a spirit of painful past. They contribute... peace and reconciliation and obstacles are the development of democratic society through institutions. In 2006, the UN General Assembly in Paris adopted the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Loss, which entered into force in 2010 aware of the seriousness and forced disappearances, the rights of victims to compensation and information on missing persons, and, above all, the need to combat the avoidance of liability for these crimes. As a forced disappearance, the Convention implies an arrest, detention, kidnapping or any other form of denial of freedom committed by state agents and persons, or a group of persons working with approval, support or acceptance of the State. Among the key characteristics of forced disappearance are the refusal to recognise that such a denial of freedom has been committed and the denial of information on the whereabouts of the missing person. This puts the victim outside the protection of the law even though the right to freedom and personal security is absolutely human rights and no extraordinary state like that. The threat of war, war, political instability or crisis of any kind cannot be an excuse for any forced disappearance of a person. In order to ensure effective protection against the forced disappearance of the Convention, the Convention prescribes a series of obligations which are in charge of Member States to launch a mandatory thorough investigation into all forced disappearances and bringing in responsible perpetrators of justice. Also, under the Convention of a Member State, forced consent should be designated as an independent criminal offence in national criminal law while an extended or systematic practice of committing forced disappearances should be determined as a form of crime against humanity. However, in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, forced disappearances have already been defined as a serious form of criminal act of unlawful confiscation of freedom committed by state agents. The following obligation of the Convention to the States concerns the establishment of jurisdiction over the crimes of forced disappearance, in accordance with domestic law, Member States must prosecute in all cases where a criminal offence is committed on the territory of a Member State, irrespective of the nationality of the perpetrators and victims. It is interesting to note that the Convention mentions universal jurisdiction in principle, namely that all Member States are obliged to pursue the perpetrator if it is found on the territory of any Member State. By including this principle, the importance that the Convention attaches to forced disappearances, or perpetrators of these crimes, is evident by declaring them the hostes of the human generis, or enemies of all mankind. In accordance with the known principle or extradition or to the courts, Member States are required to cooperate in the persecution of the perpetrators and to support victims of forced disappearances, in order to locate or return the remains of the missing persons forcibly. As an obligation, the Convention also provides for the establishment of a register of persons convicted of forced disappearances, as well as a licence to review the Registers of families of missing persons and their advisers. Member States are also obliged to ensure that victims and those directly affected by forced disappearances are entitled to reparation, compensation and compensation for material and immaterial damages. So far, 98 UN member states have signed the Convention, the Republic of Croatia has signed the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons since the forced disappearance of 2007. According to documents from the Centre for Facing the past in former Yugoslavia's wars, 40,000 people were killed, while Croatia's search for 1,853 missing persons, according to data from the Defence Department's Office. Taking into account the statistics provided here, it is clear that Croatia must launch the ratification process of this Convention and thus assume the legal and moral obligation to assist families and friends of victims of forced disappearances in their search. Generally speaking, forced disappearances are not just a crime of the past, but a widespread means of fighting, and ultimately a strategy to spread fear and create feelings of uncertainty within society. Of course, the ratification of this international document has its importance and beyond the context of war crimes, especially today, when, as the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights warns, the problem of forced disappearances is not already morphing, and in the context of the refugee crisis, internal conflicts and the fight against terrorism and violent extremism, the world faces new patterns of practice of forced disappearances. Finally, the potential benefits of ratification of that Convention for Croatia need to be highlighted. First of all, the benefit that can result from ratification of that Convention is greater transparency in figures. Unquestionably, families and friends of the missing, as well as the general public, have the right to accurate information. Since the problem of missing is one of the burning topics in the area of the former Yugoslavia, any shift towards resolving this burden of the past would also mean reducing tensions in these areas, as well as improving international, interethnic and good neighbourly relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76160	Ma'am, Mr. Michel Jaksic will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76161	Thank you, Vice President, Mr Salapic, colleagues and colleagues. So, as the SDP Club, we absolutely welcome the ratification of this Convention, because we simply consider first of all that everything we take over from both the European Union and the United Nations is something that makes us better and better and better both as a state and as a society, and that we are indeed in this formal way becoming part of the world to which we want to belong. From the point of view of the Republic of Croatia, it is certain that everything bad that has brought us the Homeland War, is something where we've learned a lot of schools, a lot of lessons, where there's still a lot of pain and grief and where we haven't solved all the problems we have, especially when we're talking about missing persons. There are always some attempts, but we simply can't say that we have achieved what people expected of us, which is to at least clear that question and that they all disappeared at last one day and get some place of their last rest. It is a subject that creates tensions, a topic that stands as an obstacle to the creation of good neighbourly relations, especially with Serbia, which is something that is constantly a shadow over the former Yugoslavia, mainly over our areas that have been under aggression, and we simply want to believe that adoption and this Convention, even though we have gathered enough experience and ourselves, regardless of some of it has not moved from the dead spot, will contribute to finally starting a story that has been going on for 30 years, slowly solve, slowly close, to restore dignity to people, to show them that as a state we respect them and that we can simply say that on this painful topic we have found one normal and just pathway. This Convention is one civilizational step, which protects all those people who are hit, suppressed, abused, abused, found in the fields where genocide is happening, and therefore simply for these reasons we will support this International Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76162	Mrs. Ivana Kekin will represent the views of the Green-Left bloc on this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76163	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary and the Honorable Representatives and MPs. Another 2006. The UN General Assembly in Paris adopted the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Peters. The Convention determines that no one must be subject to a forced disappearance, and that no exceptional circumstances, any war situation, any threat to war, any internal political instability or any lengthy emergency circumstances, can justify a forced disappearance. The same includes the arrest, detention, kidnapping or any long form of denial of freedom, which commits the official persons of the State or persons or groups of persons acting with the approval, support or acceptance of the State, followed by the refusal to recognise the committed denial of freedom or concealment of the fate or place of residence of the missing person, which puts such person outside the protection of the Law. Although the right to freedom and personal security is an absolute human right and no extraordinary condition can be an excuse for the forced disappearance of a person. The International Convention provides for a series of obligations to be imposed by Member States on the launch of mandatory, thorough investigations into all forced disappearances and bringing in responsible justice. In addition, Member States should designate forced disappearances as an independent criminal offence, while an extended or systematic practice of committing forced disappearances should be determined as a form of crime against humanity. The following obligation of the Convention to the States concerns the establishment of jurisdiction over the crimes of forced disappearance. In accordance with domestic law, Member States must prosecute in all cases where a criminal offence is committed on the territory of a Member State independently of the nationality of the perpetrators and victims. It is interesting to note that the Convention also mentions the principle of universal jurisdiction, namely that all Member States are obliged to pursue the perpetrator if it is found on the territory of any Member State. By including this principle, it is visible what the Convention attaches to forced disappearances, or perpetrators of these crimes, declaring them enemies of all mankind. In addition, Member States are obliged to cooperate in supporting victims and persecuting perpetrators. They are then required to establish a registry of the perpetrators and to allow a review of the register of victims' families and their advisers. Finally, Member States are obliged to provide victims with the right to reparation, compensation and compensation for material and immaterial damages. The Convention defines the establishment of a supervisory body of the UN Forced Exclusion Committee, composed of 10 human rights experts which Member States are obliged to submit reports on steps taken to fulfil these duties prescribed by the Convention. In view of the fact that according to the documents of the Centre for the Facing of the Past in the 1990s wars, 40,000 people were missing, with the Ministry of Defence still searching for more than 1800 missing, it is clear that the ratification of this Convention was necessary. Unfortunately, though, forced disappearances are not only a element of the past, and they do not appear exclusively in the context of war crimes. Forced disappearances are also out of this context, are still being used today as a means of intimidation, as a means of control and combating first in the context of the burning migrant crisis. From these perspectives, I conclude that the Green-Left bloc club supports the ratification of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Loss, above all, because we hope it will contribute to solving the problems of the missing in the 1990s wars and thus contribute to reducing tensions and improving relations and establishing lasting peace. On the other hand, we hope that this ratification will contribute to better handling Croatia with the migrant crisis. Since Croatia shows daily ignorance in the management of the migrant crisis in a way that does not respect the rule of law and does not respect human rights as recently confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights in the case of the Afghan girl Madina Hussini. But this is also witnessed by numerous testimonies contained in the black book of pushbacks, so the black book push backs collected and recorded by the Border Violence Monitoring. Unfortunately, even today overnight, people disappear on or off the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the expected achievement of this ratification also prompts today's news of BiH's HDZ supporting the idea of Milorad Dodig abolishing the law on the punishment of genocide denial in Srebrenica. The protection of all persons from forced disappearance also includes a dignified attitude towards victims and their families, so these examples of direct calls for the denial of genocide supported by the Honorary Doctor of the Zagreb University and the HDZ of BiH necessarily warn about the potential selective application of the obligations of the international convention, and all according to the standard key of HDZ, the key to the most frequently distilled political opportunism. In this case, the noble intention of this Convention, which should ultimately lead to a better understanding of the suffering of the protection of the dignity of the victims of better relations with lasting peace and of course to the protection of human rights in the future, will not be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76164	Ms Ljubica Lukačić will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76165	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have already heard before us, is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Peters. This law confirms the International Convention to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The International Convention on the Protection of All Persons From Forced Missing, which was adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2006 on 20 December, and the Convention entered into force on 23 December 2010. 98 UN Member States signed the Convention, while 63 Member States are parties to the Convention. On 6 February 2007, the Republic of Croatia signed the international convention. Its purpose is to prevent and combat the forced disappearance of persons by incrimination of certain acts. Its purpose is also to protect the rights of victims of criminal offences established in accordance with this Convention, facilitate cooperation at national and international level in measures to combat forced disappearances, as well as prevention measures at national and international level. For the Republic of Croatia, this Convention is of particular importance because the Republic of Croatia already has experience in cases of forced disappearance from the Homeland War, and all of this is used by the Republic of Croatia to contribute to the further repression of this phenomenon in all circumstances and global scales. This Convention is also an additional mechanism for the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, as well as for a new step towards the improvement of international humanitarian law and for supporting international efforts in the context of the fight against terrorism. For the Republic of Croatia as a party to the most important international legal instruments in the field of human rights and international humanitarian law, this Convention is a continuity on the international agenda, but also a further commitment to the implementation of modern standards in national legislation. The Convention provides for the incrimination of the following actions, hence the forced disappearance which, within the meaning of the Convention, involves retention, kidnapping or any other form of denial of freedom committed by official persons of the State, persons or groups of persons working with the approval, support or acceptance of the State, followed by refusal to recognise the denied freedom or concealment of fate or place of residence, etc. Furthermore, the attempted crime of forced disappearance, the surveillance of acts in connection with the crime of forced disappearance knowingly neglecting data that clearly points to the intention of committing a crime of forced disappearance or clearly points to crimes of forced disappearance and to the taking of necessary and reasonable measures to prevent or prevent the committing of a crime of forced disappearance. Furthermore, this Convention also contains provisions on the purpose of the scope and application of the concepts, provisions of criminal material law in addition to those incriminations and provisions on jurisdiction, liability, provisions on sanctions and measures, difficult and easy circumstances, and provisions of criminal procedural law on the initiation and course of proceedings, investigations, international cooperation, provisions on protection measures, on the protection of victims and their families, witness protection, provisions on prevention measures, etc., etc. By confirming this Convention, the Republic of Croatia would like to join an initiative to strengthen international cooperation mechanisms, to prevent or effectively sanction such practices. The Republic of Croatia, therefore, has its view that only the universal application of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons against Forced Exclusion can prevent the perpetrators of the most serious criminal offences protected by international law from being unpunished and therefore the Republic of Croatia advocates that all States of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons against Forced Exclusion are implementing this Convention in their national legislation and creating appropriate mechanisms in accordance with the Convention to ensure the cooperation of States Parties. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to the Croatian Parliament that the debate on this Act be held in one reading, given that nothing can be changed at this stage in the Convention, nor the Convention to supplement the text of the Convention. For the implementation of this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore provided funds in the state budget in the area, in the positions of the Ministry of Justice and Administration as well as the Ministry of the Interior. And here, finally, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76166	Thank you, Mrs. Lukacic. Despite your laptop's insubordination, you've done a great job. Thank you very much. Now it's your turn, sir, these are now individual debates, Mr. Jure Bourkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76167	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons From Forced Peters. As we have already heard the term final in this case does not mean that the law has passed the first reading, so we are now discussing it in the second reading, but given the nature of the process of confirming international agreements and formally expressing consent to be bound by an already concluded international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, it is not generally possible to modify or supplement the text of the international contract, this Final Proposal for the Law is discussed and accepted in one reading. Unfortunately, the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons From Forced Peters adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in December 2006 was created after the terrible experiences of all mankind, mainly after experiences in the great tragedy of the 20th century. The International Convention is based on charters, declarations and pacts that protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, and in order to prevent forced disappearances, it fights the impunity of criminals and confirms the right of every victim to know the truth about the circumstances of the forced disappearance and the fate of missing persons. The harsh truth is that this International Convention does not see as a criminal any ordinary criminal, but rather any form of depriving freedom committed by official persons of the state or persons or groups of persons acting with the approval, support or acceptance of a state followed by a refusal to recognise the committed denial of freedom or concealment of the fate or place of residence of a missing person. I'm not saying there were no forced disappearances before, but in recent history, it has been reported that the Soviet Union, under Communist leadership, has damaged a large number of its own and its people. Nazi Germany, by its achtung nebel terror, led to the fact that much of its population swallowed night and fog without the families of the missing never knowing the fate of their loved ones. In the Wind and Tragedies of World War II, few of the warring regimes remained innocent of the guilt of forced disappearances. In the second half of the 20th century, we remember the news of the missing from the countries of Southeast Asia, South and Central America, Africa, news of the missing from the communist countries of Central and Eastern Europe, including Yugoslavia, almost from around the world. Since the second half of the 20th century, the only oasis of security since forced disappearances have been countries of Western democracy. At a time when Croatia, together with Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, decided to join the state legal arrangement as it existed in the countries of Europe, the communist, and the large Serb and Yugoslav regime did not allow it. In addition to armed aggression, military occupation of territories, persecution of the population, killing and destroying the large Serb and Yugoslav regime has also applied a familiar practice of forced disappearances. The legacy of this bloody practice to this day in Croatia has a thousand 455 forced missing persons whose fate is unknown and 398 dead people who are unknown to the site of burial, a total of a thousand 853 unsolved cases from the Homeland War. The legacy and responsibility for this bloody practice is also borne by the Republic of Serbia because the perpetrators are citizens of Serbia. At the time of the crime, they were just as the International Convention states official persons of the state or person, or groups of persons acting with the approval, support or acceptance of the state, followed by a refusal to recognise the denied freedom, concealment of fate or place of residence of a missing person. These persons are also responsible for the victims of the newly discovered mass grave in 151st row between Pacettin and Bobota, as well as for many more mass graves that keep secret and do not want to reveal their location. The international convention on the protection of all persons from forced disappearance is worth the law we must adopt. As far as I understand it can't be applied retroactively, but at least I hope that by adopting this law, we'll grow a little stronger on our starting point in solving the fate of missing persons, and I also hope that by adopting this law, we will come to an end to this bloody practice from the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76168	Thank you very much. Sandra Bencic replica first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76169	Thank you. Since you have cited the important reasons for the adoption of this Convention, it is precisely the resolution of those who have disappeared in war conflicts both in Croatia and elsewhere in the world. And when you list all this, I wonder how it is possible that your representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina Dragan Ćovic voted together with the club or representatives of the Serbian People's House yesterday against banning the denial of genocide in Srebrenica and it is not the first time. They voted against amending the Penal Code at the 4th month. Yesterday they voted in favour of the Serbian Home initiative to actually prevent the initiative from denying genocide in Srebrenica. Why does your representative side with those who deny genocide in Srebrenica, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76170	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76171	Dear Mrs. Bencic, as I read earlier, you said that you listened to the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Loss has absolutely nothing to do with what you're saying, this is the result of the alleged denial of genocide by Mr. Dragan Ćovic. It has to do with the disappearance, the forced disappearance of people who worked, bloody regimes in history such as the communist regime of Yugoslavia, such as the regime that broke into Vukovar, killed and destroyed all people and whose day today we don't know where the remains are. So the international convention has nothing to do with the alleged denial and in the BiH Parliament exactly what you're talking about, but the prevention of a bloody practice that has been done with mahogany... 20th century, Fascisms, Nazis and Communisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76172	Mr. Mlinaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76173	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It was when you mentioned the mass graves at Bobota that were unearthed. Do you know who's in Bobota in power or in Pacettin? SDSS, I'll tell you, I know. So then ask a coalition partner why he kept quiet for 30 years, and she knew probably every grandmother out there in that village that people were buried there, didn't it dig a click hole, but it was a bagger to come and dig up that they had to see, a lot of people had to see. Why did they keep quiet for 30 years that people... lay down and the families die in the worst troubles? Here's what I'd like you to answer, and in the end, I said in my speech to the coalition partner, Milorad Popovec, who probably knows about Dr. Schreter. There was one so at least written by Slavko Degorcija who was the same in HDZ to know about this, so why don't you ask him to solve a peacemaker's case like Dr. Schreter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76174	Thank you very much. I would only pray that we don't talk about MPs who aren't in the House, at least while they're gone in the House so I can answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76175	I understand your words. However, thanks to HDZ, multilateral and democracy, we have the opportunity to discuss this in this Croatian Assembly. Until the first multiparty elections, there was no way to talk about forced missing persons in this way. Local self-government units are also conducting their local democratic elections. Also, citizens, the population of Bobota and Pacettin chose their own current power. Why didn't they point the finger so far and tell us where the tombs were? I believe it has nothing to do with democracy and who chose whom and who was currently in power at the local level, either at the state level. It has to do with a mental set of people who support and approve mass murders and disappearances now in the Homeland War and the end of World War II.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76176	You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Sandra Bencic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76177	Thank you. Therefore, in the light of this proposal for ratification of the Convention, it is stated that this Convention is of special importance for the Republic of Croatia and that, as a state with direct experience relating to cases of forced disappearance in the Homeland War, it would contribute to further countering this phenomenon in all circumstances and global scales. Furthermore, this Convention represents an additional mechanism for the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, as well as a new step towards improving international humanitarian law. We absolutely agree with that, and we absolutely support it. In Croatia we are still looking for more than 1800 missing persons in the Homeland War and we consider this absolutely one of the priorities of Croatia's foreign and internal policy and we have just pointed out that. At the same time, however, our relationship with the missing in other countries under the same war circumstances is opposite, even contrary to the basic ideas of humanitarian law but also international solidarity. You see and citizens in BiH are still looking for 1200 missing in the Srebrenica genocide. It was mostly about senior minors. People born in '77. The years were 88, people who were born my age, so '78. in the year 177. Also, people born in '79, '80s, so at the time of the disappearance, some of them were 15-year-olds, sixteen-year-olds. At yesterday's session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a conclusion proposed by the Serbian People's Club is being asked that those who have created a decision to ban genocide in Srebrenica be the same and annulled. In addition to the political representatives of Serbs, HDZ delegates in the House of Peoples voted in favour of this name Dragan Covic, Marina Pendesh and Lidija Bradar. It is a shame that another HDZ representative in BiH has raised hands against the ban on the denial of genocide in BiH, it is embarrassing that they did so in April of this year when they voted against amendments to the Penal Code that would prohibit the denial of genocide. And what will HDZ BiH say to those who seek missing in Srebrenica genocide? Was it genocide? Is he gonna tell them that? Will Dragan Covic tell them that? On whose side the HDZ classification and its large representative in BiH are known for the honorary doctorate of the Zagreb University is also known for what we have just talked about the disproportionateness of property and income that it has known for everything the HDZ is known for in Croatia. So whose side are those who justify genocide? Since we are not ashamed in front of ourselves, but also internationally against what is a civilizational fact and how we can not only condemn, but stop, but also side by side of those who deny genocide – a crime in which 1200 missing minors, minors still are. And you vote in BiH against the ban on denying that genocide? At the same time in this House, you will adopt the Conventions on Missing Persons and stress that this is especially important for us because we have this experience. Yeah, we'll do what the International Community asks us to do, but when it's the same thing to apply to our neighbors, when we need to have the same criteria for other victims, we don't do other crimes then. Because for you, crime is not a crime, but a crime depends on who the victim is and who the perpetrator was, and that's the fundamental difference between you in HDZ and us on this side because for us it's a crime -- crime. And every missing, every missing person no matter who he is or whose victim he deserves to be discovered and that his loved ones know what happened to him. And when you accept that, you will be able, with full right, to stand by international conventions and international and legal and civilizational achievements. As long as you vote like this, you can't vote in BiH! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76178	Stay here. You have a replica. Mrs. Bencic, you have a replica. Mr. Jure Bourkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76179	Dear colleagues Bencic, you are reversing means a complex situation in BiH,... ban the denial of genocide in Srebrenica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] None of the HDZs deny genocide in Srebrenica, and you're very much saying it, you know a lot about it. And I'd like to beg you now, do you know anything about the fate of 19 missing Bugoyan Croats? Did you know we found four last year? And do you know there aren't 15 more to be looked for? Ada and Djevad Mlado and Djevo Cikotic are well aware of their whereabouts. Why don't you talk about it? Mine's from Kupres. We're looking for our own dead from World War II to this war. There was no international convention. Now there's gonna be no more cases like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76180	Yeah, yeah. You can answer that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76181	Thank you. Exactly what I've highlighted to you last is a victim, a criminal is a criminal and a crime is a crime. And every missing person has the right to equal treatment. And all of that, every war crime should be treated as a war crime no matter who committed it and on whose behalf and on whose behalf every victim has the right to justice. That's our attitude. Unfortunately, you have a selective attitude in the application of rights and humanitarian rights. And for that reason, you interpret every regulation as selectively as any regulations we have here are always interpreted in behalf of you and your members, and to the detriment of others. Because there's only you and no one else for you!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76182	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. And now, at the end of the debate, our first breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76183	Thank you very much, Vice President. Unfortunately, I don't have a different way of doing business, but use this to make Article 238 irrelevant. What I want to point out to all my colleagues and colleagues present at the moment, unfortunately as I speak, there has been a tragedy in Split. She suffered from a woman, stabbed in Lidl by her ex-partner. And I just want to point out all this time, this whole month we've been talking about preventing violence against women, preventing domestic violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76184	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. I can't. Mr. Hajdukovic, with all due respect for the subject you are presenting, with all respect for the topic you are presenting, I must give you a warning because it was simple as a first was one attempt at replication, and then it was totally out of the question. [[Intruder Hajdukovic: Please just consider this tomorrow when we discuss...]] And it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You don't agree with me? Mrs. Romana Nikolic, please. The Social Democrats' club is final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76185	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. So here's the Social Democrats club just to recapture this debate today. This law confirms the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Exclusion in order to ensure its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Given that the forced disappearances of persons pose a direct threat to freedom and the lives of individuals in the Republic of Croatia, the Convention seeks to join an initiative to strengthen international cooperation mechanisms at the prevention, i.e. effective sanctioning of such practices. And once again, I will remind you that there are 1853 missing persons in Croatia and 398 remains in the list of missing persons. In the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, there are 520 missing persons from the list of 386 from Vukovar. Among the key characteristics of the forced disappearance are the refusal to recognise that such a denial of freedom has been committed and the denial of information on the whereabouts of the missing person. In order to ensure effective protection against the forced disappearance of the Convention, it prescribes a series of obligations to be imposed by Member States on the launch of a mandatory thorough investigation into all forced disappearances and bringing in responsible perpetrators of justice. Member States are also obliged to ensure that victims and those directly affected by forced disappearances are entitled to reparation, compensation and compensation for material and immaterial damages. So far, 98 UN member states have signed the convention, and the Republic of Croatia has signed the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons since the forced disappearance of 2007. Since 1853 missing persons are wanted in Croatia, it is clear that Croatia must launch the ratification process of this Convention and thus assume the legal and moral obligation to assist families and friends of victims of forced disappearances in their search. Generally looking at forced disappearances are not just a crime of the past but a widespread means of fighting, and ultimately a strategy to spread fear and create a sense of uncertainty within society. Any shift towards solving the past would also mean reducing tensions in these areas, and improving international, interethnic and good neighbourly relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76186	And in the end, Mr. Nikola Mazhar will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear State Secretarys, colleagues and fellow MPs. As we have heard before us, the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons against Forced disappearance. The subject of forced disappearances is a global topic and a global problem. A large number of missing persons due to armed conflicts and violations of human rights throughout history are a strong indicator of the failure to preserve individual rights and maintain the rule of law. As a forced disappearance of conventions in its content, it involves the arrest, detention, kidnapping or any other form of denial of freedom committed by state agents, persons or groups of persons working with approval, support or acceptance of the State. The essential characteristics of the forced disappearance are the refusal to recognise that such a denial of freedom has been committed and the denial of information on the whereabouts of the missing person. That is why the victim is placed outside the protection of the law, and the irrefutability of the right to freedom and personal security as an absolute human right must not, for example, be a threat to war, war, political instability or crisis of any kind questionable and cannot be justified for any forced disappearance of a person. The awareness of the importance of this topic, as well as the awareness that this problem is still somewhat unknown to the general public, and the need to raise awareness of this subject is also updated through the marking of the International Day of Victims of Forced Missing Persons, which is also known as the International Day of Missing Persons, and is marked every year on August 30th. Forced and permanent closure of persons except as it spreads terror in societies and creates a sense of uncertainty and human rights violations can also represent a violation of international humanitarian law if this occurs in the context of armed conflict. According to the United Nations, forced disappearances also violate different economic, social and cultural rights both for victims and for their families. This may include, among other things, the right to education, health and a number of individual fundamental human rights. What we need to know is that anyone can be the victim of a forced disappearance either as a person who has been kidnapped or as a friend or as a family of missing persons. In order to ensure effective protection against the forced disappearance of the Convention, the Convention prescribes a series of obligations that Member States are in charge of launching a mandatory thorough investigation into all forced disappearances and bringing in responsible perpetrators of justice. It is important to note that the Convention also mentions the principle of universal jurisdiction that all Member States are obliged to prosecute the perpetrators if they are found on the territory of any Member State independently of nationality and perpetrators and victims. Member States are also obliged to ensure that victims and those directly affected by forced disappearances are entitled to reparation, compensation and compensation for material and immaterial damages. The States shall also have an obligation under the United Nations Forced Loss Committee to the supervisory authority established by the Convention to which Member States must submit a report on the measures they have taken to fulfil the duties prescribed by the Convention. Of course, the ratification of this international document has its importance beyond the context of war crimes, especially today when in the context of the refugee crisis, internal conflicts and the fight against terrorism and violent extremism when the world faces new patterns of practice of forced disappearances. In order to combat the tragic phenomenon of forced disappearances, it is extremely important that efforts are made at international level and that conventions such as the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Peters in As many Countries as possible, as well as raising awareness on the subject will achieve stronger, more comprehensive and sustainable protection of persons, individuals and vulnerable groups. And for the accuracy of the data in this debate, I must point out, therefore, that this Convention will not apply retroactively, will not apply to the missing in the Homeland War, but we must also point out that, thanks to the Ministry of Croatian Defence in this high house on 12 July 2019, the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War was passed unanimously and that all these activities in the area of beautiful ours were applied thanks to it. For this reason, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Peters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-30-0.u76188	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and we will vote when the conditions are met, at 9.30 p.m. with the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022nd year and projection for 23rd and 24th. So, the most important law is tomorrow at half past ten, nine and a half. The session was interrupted at 17.25 p.m.
