ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u42751	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.08 HOURS]] In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. I will first propose to supplement the 7th session agenda with 8 new points. The proposal for a supplement was submitted by electronic means. Art. The 227 determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted according to an emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under the point of the first proposed supplement, this is the proposal for an IPR Law with a draft final draft law proposal? If there are no objections, I believe the motion for an emergency procedure has been accepted. How appropriate. 225th century 4th of the written objections to the remaining points of the draft agenda, I note that all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 7th session. Now we're going to the vote. Before that, a colleague of the Grmoys will come forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u42752	Thank you, Your Honor. We're like the MOST Club today, signed by our vice president, Zvonimir Troscott, made the conclusion, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u42753	Excuse me, are you looking for a break or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u42754	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u42755	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u42756	...referred to the conclusion that we are asking for a recount of the signatures for the two referendum initiatives, those on the amendment of the Electoral Law "The People Decisions" led by our representative, Zvonimir Troscott, as well as the referendum initiatives "The Truth About Istanbul". Two key actors counting the signatures of former Minister of Management Lovre Kuščević and HDZ political secretary, as well as state secretary from the same ministry, Josip Rimac, are on heavy charges, Mr Kuščević for change means re-use of land, but also for offering bribes for false testimony, and Mrs. Kuščević for change. Romec in the “Wind Power Plants” affair also for taking bribes. Such people cannot possibly be a credible guarantee that the numbering of signatures was carried out correctly. I remind you of this tall home that it's Mrs. Devereaux. The Roman and Mr. Kuščević refused to deliver HS's insight into invalid signatures. From this place Kuščević invited us to the Ministry of Administration when we arrived at 9am, they refused to give us an insight that the Secretary of State of Rome would come to the club MOST only with our signatures, so Mr. Dolnjak, Mr. Sladoljev and I and told us that this is the insight. So we're asking for a re-count of the signatures, please this high home, this HS to come to a conclusion on the re-counting of the signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u42757	I let you say it all the way, and I'm giving you a warning because this has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure and this is not connected to any agenda. What you said can, of course, be said outside the assembly, but I repeat once again, I deliberately let you not say that I didn't let you speak, but this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you know that very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u42799	Now, as we announced yesterday, we're going to move on to taking the stand of representatives' clubs and independent representatives. Since we are even faster than I expected to finish this point, without a break until 12:00 yesterday we announced it, I hope that all colleagues have perceived it, if I am not sorry, but here we have so far registered a Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement in the name of which will be spoken by a respected representative of Ante Prkačin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u42800	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. So I said the last time, and the last thought was that the HoS problem had to be solved in World War II. World War II was welcomed by Serbs and Croats in the common state. As far as this country is worth, as much as it meant to them both, it best tells itself the beginning of this Second World War, where the state enters completely unprepared, without a plan, without ideas, even without a desire to war, but the English secret service agents in the image of three Yugoslav air generals Simovic, Ilic and Mirkovic. They execute a coup, coup, Hitler reacts very fiercely to the 6th April attack on Yugoslavia, Yugoslavia capitulates in a short time. The formal capitulation is 17th, but in fact already 12th, General Kalafatovic ordered General Jankovic and Aleksandr Cincar Markovic to sign unconditional capitulation. And now comes the time and the events that need to be considered and decided both on Hos and on many other political matters and events in our country. In fact, then Croatian nationalists try to create their own country, then Serbian nationalists, or a complete Serb people attack the country just as they attacked us in the '90s, '91s. When we tried to create a state, though not the same as much harder because they were more willing, they were more bloodthirsty. They had hundreds of Chetnic subcommittees in the NDH area and began the furious slaughter of the Croatian people that we celebrate with some kind of antifascism. And I said the last time and three times I said that these Serbs fired at Italian fascists on 19.12. and that same year means half a year before that, and before and all that time, they were successfully and successfully hanging out with the Italians, negotiating. The most important mention is Otriæki and Benkovici Agreement, which Croatia's history mostly avoids mentioning because there is cooperation with Italians with the Chetniks written by late Broz General Djoko Jovanic, they agree that the Italians will cut off a piece of Croatian space and join Italy. It's a very interesting event, today it's 7, 8.5.'41. The Italian occupation paper San Marko, which exits in Split on the first page, announces that two Serbian representatives, representatives of the Serbian people Niko Novaković Longo and Bosko Right, on behalf of 100,000 Orthodox Serbs, are asking for Knin and the environment to join Italy. I need to get Mr. Klasic and the company to get up in Knin until the 22nd, a little later. What's Broz doing at the time? For the first time, he was completely calm, respecting the Ribbentrot-Molotov agreement until Hitler attacked the Soviet Union without him when he entered the work, this one-sided, simple war between Serbs and Montenegrins against others he made him a diverse war. Instead of ordinary civil war, there is a frat-killing war because they slaughter Croats on the route of Ustasha-partisans because they slaughter Serbs on the route of the Chetniks—partisans, he tries to raise all the people, headed to so-called. The NOB, which, unfortunately, no country in the area has succeeded in doing so, for this reason, we have had less and less victims than we have. Last time I told Bulgaria that 20,000 were killed, I thank my colleague Jozic who corrected me because the Bulgarians were somewhat smaller at the beginning of the war but the principle is the same. To one of Bulgaria's dead, 50 Yugoslavs. I also explain why fewer victims are made by Albanians and Macedonians. Because Broz failed to raise the people's uprising in Macedonia, in Kosovo, I will not explain now why, there will be an opportunity at another occasion. Generally, despite Macedonia's milder passing, Albanians, Yugoslavia is coming out of war with millions of victims. The debate whether Broz is the greatest historical figure or the greatest war criminal can be discussed, but it is doubtless that he is the greatest loser in the history of these spaces. He created Yugoslavia, Yugoslavia fell apart, created a non-classified, non-classified fall apart, introduced communism, Communism disappeared. Nine. Nine. '43. Mr. Capitulates Italy. At J. Broza headquarters, William B. Dickin, an English liaison officer, receives the capitulation of 2,000 Italian soldiers, Broza will not report it. If Broza had informed him, Broz would have picked up with his army a mass of war material, so the allies would prefer to pick up Hitler and get up than his ally, J. Broz. Incarcerated about 50,000 Yugoslavs in the Italian army, Churchill doesn't let any... Anyone who wants to come back, join Broza in what's-his-name. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nob. It's his work. And there will be opportunities to talk about both character and deed. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u42801	Thank you very much. [[Intruder Splash: How I pass the time quickly.]] Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u43155	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Are we aware of the fact that 230 000 people have moved out of Croatia since 2013 and especially has been devastated by Lika, Dalmatian hinterland and Slavonia? From the position of a young person or some perhaps relatively young and also from the position of a mother, so far three children, can speak very relevantly about the things that young citizens in Croatia face. Personally, I have seen almost always the same problems with socializing and talking to young people, which are the inability to hire after school, economic instability, and the housing issue. And the most important and frustrating thing is the feeling that it cannot change or that in the future in Croatia it will even change power. If we look at statistics, although statistics here are not particularly necessary to be aware of this problem, it is important to point out that unemployed young people in Croatia make up a town the size of Karlovac. And so until these days we listen to a pre-election promise from different directions, young people in Croatia are still on hold without a certain perspective for the future. So from statistics and research, we have clear indicators of the overall deterioration of the social position of today's youth compared to the position of the generation 10, 15 years ago, even though it wasn't satisfactory then. This is, among other things, the consequence of a years of economic and social crisis that most young people face by further withdrawal and distance from both social and political issues and ultimately correspond to leaving the country. Of course, in line with a crisis that is burdened with risks and social uncertainty, the confidence of young people in society and the social perspective falls, and in the hope that this will be ensured in some other countries, as I said, they will go away. But I'm asking you here today, is anyone worried? Because here we have on the social networks of the "Young People, We Leave Croatia" group, which among other things offers advice and transfers of experience to those who have already gone over the border and what is worrying is that Croats have the highest degree of emigration from all EU member states and we actually have a very low rate of return. Therefore, all of us in the EU can be a role model because no one has lost as much population as the Republic of Croatia in such a short time. With all this data, there is still nothing or very little to do in the rest of young people in Croatia. What young people expect is to provide them with the conditions for optimal social integration, security and the possibility of progress because the low standard of living, the lack of a life perspective and unemployment in the end are the inability of self-indulgence, home creation, family planning, that is what young people in Croatia are facing. And the environment, instead of offering them perspective and opportunity, is currently offering them risk and uncertainty. Demographic problem in Croatia is a complex issue and requires the overall cooperation of all parts of society in creating a positive atmosphere and favourable conditions for families, as well as for staying and returning young people to Croatia. For now, there is no mood, and neither is the government, even though the government has been working on our 6th demographic strategy, with none of the previous strategies being implemented so far. It is therefore necessary to create opportunities for young people from the state level to a greater extent. I believe and suggest that through a quality package of measures for resolving and living issues and the survival of the village, it can be helped by revitalising abandoned houses, especially in Lika and Slavonia. And we have examples in some parts of Croatia where young people are helped to get to the first property through the construction of apartments for rent, which is good, but in order to meet the conditions, young people must have a secure and well-paid job so that they can pay rent, so they can raise credit to end up buying that apartment and it's very little. A good example is also from the municipality of Legrad, which has offered municipal property to citizens, young people for one kuna, which is an excellent demographic measure. A well-paid and secure first job is what will keep young people in Croatia. So here, let me say, let's include young people with their freshness, knowledge and ideas making decisions, building and developing and creating the future because without active participation, this group of societies doesn't actually have overall social progress. It is very important to ensure progress in the position of young people, education, labour market and to support them in family formation and positioning in society and to advocate quality education and it is up to all of us to help them because the problem of demographicism is the problem of all of us. And I urge you, in addition to writing another strategy, to make a package of concrete measures to help young people because time is no more. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u43156	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marin Mandaric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u43250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. I need to talk about two topics. One topic concerns the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, and another topic, of course, logically and in the time in which we are located, the local elections that are ahead of us for, here, 10 days. As far as the National Recovery and Resistance Plan is concerned, and here in HS, there has been a long, summed and very constructive debate, I can say, from all sides. We also had opportunities to see the announcement that by the end of the month the government would hand over the EU to the Commission a document that had left. We had a summary of that document here and in front of us at HS. I would only recapitulate the whole process, it is 6.3.../incomprehensible/... potential 6.3 billion euros of grants that should come to the Republic of Croatia, I repeat, which should come to the Republic of Croatia. It's not the money that's coming, it's coming. I once spoke here with this pay phone about these assets based on the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, and then they said I was talking nonsense, talking nonsense that none of that money came. Of course it didn't come, those money should come. I repeat once again, 54% for the economy. 54% for the economy, and everything else that goes indirectly, the vast majority of it will turn into our economy. But other than the 6.3 billion euros alone, what's really important, and I have a feeling that somehow it goes all the way under the radar and falls into another plan are actually a national reform plan. This is what will provide us, in the long run, for the whole country to be competitors and to catch up with developed EU countries. We're going to get this money, we're going to absorb it, we're going to spend it, but what we have to do in the long run for the good of us, for the good of our children, we're going to implement reforms. Structural, layered and deep. So we hope that, as soon as possible, the European Commission will assess our National Recovery and Resistance Plan, as well as other countries, and that we will finally be able to contribute to the business. The other thing is local elections. The Croatian Parliament is taking a break this week ahead of the election. I would like to wish all my colleagues and colleagues of the candidates who compete, who in the elections next week wish them luck, wish them a fair and correct political match from whatever side of the spectrum they come from. I believe a fair and correct political game is simply an necessity today. The level at which the perception of politics is, of people dealing with politics is not at the levels at which it should be. And we all actually contribute to what people are going to think about us. Let's focus on programs, ideas, visions, development, future, less on personal attacks, ad-hominem, personal-level polemics, focus on programs. That way we can help ourselves. I mean everything here. As far as we're concerned, the same people will keep to us. Let us therefore use these elections as another opportunity to raise the level of political communication and political speech in the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia. There are among the people who deal with politics a vast majority of those who are worthy and honest people, honest and upright, honest intentions. Let's not let this campaign drag us back into battle under the belt, drag us into the fungi. I personally won't allow it, I'm also showing it in the campaign in the city of Djakova. I just don't let any characters drag me into some stories that aren't appropriate, not decent people who do business and who should be involved in politics. Here, once again I wish everyone good luck, let's keep the level, because let's be aware, and after each of us's choices, we have to live and work together again. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u43251	Thank you very much. Here, since there are no more applications to make the point, we're going to take a break. As scheduled at 12 o'clock there will be a vote, so please come and inform your colleagues to come, so we can all be here at 12 o'clock at the vote. Thank you very much. It's 10.24 hours. The next club of representatives will be that Mosta in the name of which the respected representative, Nikola Grmoja, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u43349	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here, we have one pre-election announcement. The suspension of work on Sundays and the abolition of compulsory membership fees for smaller businesses means HGK. I can, with joy and pride, declare that we are happy that our pressure is here in HS, remember that colleague Troscott wrote two laws on the abolition of mandatory memberships for HGK and HOK and that this HGK law has divided the ruling majority. Remember that they had no quorum, that they had to postpone the vote, that they had to negotiate within the ruling coalition and that they eventually agreed that the ruling coalition had agreed on that one conclusion that it would go towards the phase-out of the HGK membership. And here, the government now, the best possible timing, might be better if the elections were more frequent, announcing therefore, the abolition of mandatory memberships to smaller businesses, that would mean a lot, I would say, to our entrepreneurs and craftsmen because every kuna is important to them, especially at this time of the epidemic, we see what happens to business and we can only welcome it. I would like to congratulate this opportunity, primarily, the Voice of the Entrepreneurs on their brave struggle, despite their favours for entrepreneurs and craftsmen, we have the fact that Economy Minister Tomislav Ćoric is constantly insulting them, insulting their leader, they have also asked for an opening, now ahead of the election, Minister Ćoric says it is foolish. So we all know that, ahead of the election and so on, not because the rulings care about, I don't know, Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen, but they care about going to the elections, so let's remember the previous parliamentary elections when the crown was defeated before the election. So, the closer the election, the closer the victory over the crown gets. So it will be this time and what is here, I can also thank our representative who recognized this important initiative of the Voice of Entrepreneurs Association and who wrote these laws and this shows how we in opposition really need to act. Thank you and colleagues from the opposition, from all the opposition clubs that supported those laws at the time, we made the ruling to divide this one, and that in the end, here, somehow, the Hrebaka got, they had to promise him something so he wouldn't completely compromise, even though I don't know if this would help him. So here it goes in this direction. And another important thing, my colleague Troscott and I have now had a press conference, you know that two top people of the Ministry of Administration, so former minister and former HDZ political secretary Lovro Kuščević and his right-hand man, State Secretary, Josipa Rimac, are charged with serious crimes. There are different cases, this in Kuštević is about re-purposed land and giving bribes for false testimony. For Josepha Rimac, therefore, it is this wind power plant affair where she was taking bribes to please the investor. Even there is Minister Maric involved, the affair is not yet over, but what is important is that two key people from the Ministry of Administration who counted the signatures during the national referendums were actually shown as almost criminals, people who receive or give bribes. How can we trust such people to be a guarantee of proper counting of signatures? You remember that the Parliament did not get to see the checklist with invalid signatures, we representatives of the Mosta we asked for it, Kuščević was here, from this pay phone invited us to come to the Ministry, we came in the morning at 9, they say you can't see anything, you will reach Josipa Rimac in the Parliament. You know what Joseph the Roman brought to the Parliament? He signs me, the Downworlder, Mark Sladolev, he says, "Here, you can see this." You can't see these invalids. So, we are now looking for, here, fellow Troscott wrote this, conclusion one, and we ask you to support it, we are asking for a re-count of signatures in both the referendum initiatives, and "The People decide" and "The Truth About Istanbul". It also affects the legality of these choices. Let us continue this battle in HS, the fight for a fairer Croatia, the fight for a fairer electoral system, but also for helping our entrepreneurs, craftsmen, our workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u43350	Thank you. and now we move on to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Supply Chain, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 96. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Marija Selak Rasdic and SDP Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak. Here you go. First of all, Amendment No. 1 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46955	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46956	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 2 MPs, sorry, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46957	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46958	It also becomes an integral part of the law. Then we go to Amendment No. 1 Honored Representatives of Marija Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46959	The amendment is not accepted. The concept of related companies is defined in the text in accordance with Commission Recommendation 361, 2000 of 6 May 2003 on the definition of micro-enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises. The contract between the buyer and the supplier may regulate the moment of transfer from the supplier to the customer with respect to the exemption for placing on the market of products which do not have to comply with the marketing standards within a given production area, such as under (a) products which the seller of the sale or delivers to stations for preparation and packaging or storage facilities or equipment from its holding in such a cell and under (b) products which are shipped from storage facilities to stations for preparation and packaging in accordance with the provisions of Art. 4th century 2 of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 543 of 2011
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46960	Since MP Selak Rasdic is not here, we will have to vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 2 Honored MPs Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46961	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the lower threshold of annual turnover for the buyer is EUR 2 million in an indicative manner in accordance with the EU Directive. In this way, the law includes a number of addresses. Furthermore, the dynamic approach from the Directive leaves certain gaps within the range that are indicated, and the proposaler concept is stricter, does not allow such gaps.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46962	Since the respected MPs, Selak Rasdic, are not here, we will have to vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 3 MPs Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46963	The amendment is not accepted. Procedures in the event of the occurrence of deficiencies that may occur in the delivery of goods will be arranged by a contract between the buyer and the supplier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46964	As MPs Selak Rasdic is gone, we will have to vote on this. Amendment No. 4 MPs Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46965	The amendment is not accepted. This provision allows the official to act in accordance with other regulations when carrying out unannounced controls.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46966	Since MPs Selak Rasdic is missing, we will have to vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 6 MPs Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46967	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the general conditions of business are prescribed by the Law on Mandatory Relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46968	Since MPs Selak Rasdic is missing, we will have to vote on this amendment. Now we're going to the SDP Representatives' Club Amendments. First, the 1st Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46969	The amendment is not accepted. It is provided for the adoption of a Regulation containing a detailed list of products, including other marine organisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46970	On behalf of the counsel club, the esteemed representative Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46971	Thank you, Vice President. So we think that it should still stand in the law because fisheries products are not sufficiently highlighted in this provision. Fisheries is an important branch of the economy which, we have not noticed, is in one strategy, and with agricultural and food products we need to list sensitive fisheries products that are not only related to fresh fish, so we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46972	Amendment No. Two SDP representatives clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46973	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment significantly affects the content of specific rules governing taxes. The time and method of meeting the obligation to issue a ransom block in case the buyer purchases goods from a supplier that is not in the tax system and the time and manner of meeting the obligations of the supplier to issue an invoice after the delivery of the goods to the buyer shall be governed by specific regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46974	On behalf of the counsel club, the esteemed representative Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46975	Namely, it remains information from farmers, sometimes the ransom block is not issued at the time of the takeover, but after some time with the aim of protecting those small and medium-sized farmers who are not protected enough by this law, it is necessary to clearly define the moment in which the ransom block that has the function of the account is issued, which is the handover of goods to the buyer or to the buyer. I note, this law did not protect small and medium-sized farmers enough. I demand that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46976	And Amendment No. 3 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46977	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment would abolish the important provisions contained in Article 1. 12. Art. 10th of which is changed. 12th in St. 2nd Post. 2. The method of payment of the product is also regulated if it is not sold during the promotional period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46978	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected representative Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46979	Thank you, Vice President. In general, most of the provisions of the law are very vague, clumsy and ambiguous. Many natural and legal persons are asking questions, and the clarification by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Competition Protection Agency is given in writing in response to the address book of the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Supply Chain. The law itself does not stipulate whether these answers are legally binding and whether natural and legal persons can be punished if they act by their answers because the law does not clearly provide for certain provisions. We ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u46980	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 96. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Marija Selak Rasdic and SDP Representatives' Club. We have held a statement earlier in the session, and we will now vote on those amendments that the Proposer does not accept. Let's take it in a row. The first is the Legislative Committee, the first is accepted, the second is accepted, so that they become an integral part of the law. We are going to the amendments to Maria Selak Rasudiæ. The first amendment is not accepted by the Government, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 2nd Amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 3, re-legislator Marija Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number four, same representative, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 5, re-legislator Marija Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. And we're going to the last 6th Amendment of the same MP, the government won't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. Now we're going to the SDP Representatives' Club's amendments, and there are three of them. The first amendment is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The second amendment of the same club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. So we're going to the last third amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. And we are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 117 MPs and advocates, 79 for, 4 abstentions, 34 against and thus passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Educational Inspection, second reading, P.Z. No. 108. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on Educational Inspection. Who's in? Excuse me, excuse me. I see, my colleague Sacic called, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47045	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47046	Someone's got a microphone on, so please turn it off. There he is. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47047	Dear President, we demand a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club because it seems appropriate and appropriate to point out a terrible aberration in the democratic life of the Republic of Croatia when key body actors defined in the Republic behave outside the constitutional frameworks in a non-democratic, non-civilised manner and require this Parliament to adopt a clear declaration to all participants and the president of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament and all those concerned to comply with their views publicly, not to disturb the Croatian public, and in particular not to lose the reputation of the international community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47048	Comrade Sacic, you've done the same thing as your colleague Grumo and I must warn you. This has nothing to do with an educational inspection. Yeah. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on Educational Inspection. Let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 115 MPs and MPs voted, 113 for, 1 abstention and 1 against and the Law on Amendments to the Law on Educational Inspection was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47259	Good morning, dear colleagues and one colleague, not many of us, we will still move on to our work today and, as announced, we will first start with a statement on the amendments. First of all, a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 95, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, and I would ask the Proposer's representative to show the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak, please. First of all, Amendment 1 of the Advocacy Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47260	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the development of a food security and food crisis plan is foreseen at EU level as one of the activities of the action plan published in the "field to table" strategy. The European Commission has launched activities to develop this crisis plan at the end of 2020, so the future crisis plan will also be part of the joint organisation of the EU market that is regulated and decided at EU level. For that reason, at this point the same topic cannot be laid down by the Agriculture Act until guidelines for the Member States of the EU crisis plan are known after it has been adopted, the need to regulate this issue within the Agriculture Act can be considered in a way that will be in line with the EU crisis plan. We reiterate that the EU's crisis plan is also part of the Croatian representatives who represent our national interests in this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47261	Thank you. On behalf of the club of representatives, a respected representative, who, Nikolic or Grman Kizivat? Who? Here you are, then, dear representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47262	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47263	The amendment has been withdrawn. And Amendment 2 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47264	The amendment is not accepted. The delivery by mail is prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act, so it does not have to be prescribed by the Agriculture Act. Unlike the delivery by electronic means. Namely, art. 6th final proposal of the law, sayingly, the method of delivery by electronic means, or AGRONET, is prescribed in accordance with the requirements of the provisions of the Article. Article 94(1) The General Administrative Procedure Act. This does not exclude the application of other delivery methods of the administrative procedure in accordance with the general rules of the cited law governing the administrative conduct of the order which is not excluded by the mail recommended by the consignment. Programmes or regulations will prescribe a way of delivering decisions for certain measures of agricultural policy, taking into account the potential of farmers of older age.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47265	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the club of MPs, respected representative Grman Kivat will.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47266	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask that this amendment be voted on. Unfortunately, there is still an end in Croatia, especially in rural areas where the internet connection is bad or even unreachable. The age structure of the OPG bearer points to a partial possibility of using the computer, for these reasons we ask that the law leave the possibility of delivering a decision through mail to help those who need the most help.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47267	Now we'll go to the vote. The first is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 95. The promoter is a government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. We held the statement at the session, and now we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. We have Amendment No. 1st, he also withdrew Amendment No. 2. The government does not accept it, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We will now vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Agriculture Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 116 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 10 abstentions, 29 against, and thus passed the Law amending and supplementing the Agriculture Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47336	Thank you very much. The following amendments will be made to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 71, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP representative club, representative Romana Nikolic, representative Ruzica Vukovac and representative Marija Selak Rasdic. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak, please. First of all, Amendment No. 1 MP Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47337	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, Annex 1 to Part 1 of Regulation 1012 of 2016 on zootechnical... conditions for the breeding of animals of pure breeds, breeding of valid and hybrid pigs, their... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] products and trade therein as well as for their entry into the Union, and amending EU Regulation 652 of 2014 and repealing certain acts in the field of animal breeding, it is prescribed that each recognised breeding society shall keep a parent book for approved breeding programmes and shall have a sufficient number of breeders participating in each of their breeding programmes when recognised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the above, it is apparent that each recognised breeding society is required to keep registers of breeders for that species and breed for which the approved programme is implemented. Art. 1st paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals shall be governed by the area of breeding of grey bees through housing of fertilising cells, fertilising material of grey bees, queens and drones shall be grown on fertilised cells.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47338	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47339	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47340	The amendment has therefore been withdrawn. Let's go to Amendment No. Two MPs of Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47341	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as for the amendment under regular number 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47342	Thank you very much. Since MP Vukovac isn't here, we'll have to vote on him. Amendment No. 3 Representatives of Maria Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47343	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as for Amendments 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47344	Since MP Selak Rasdic is not here either, we will have to vote on the amendment. Amendment No. 4 SDP representatives clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47345	The amendment is not accepted. The reason for the elimination of bee pasha cadastres is to reduce unnecessary administration due to the similarity of catastra data with data covered in the pasture order. The cadastre is a base in the spatial layout of bee Pashas, the data collected in the catastrus are operationally unusable. Beekeepers shall not have the necessary data on the shaded surfaces at the time of the bee migration plan. In a catastro which is said to have been established in 2011, no updated bees have ever been recorded but only the locations of bees in space. The introduction of a bee pasha cadastre, not interrupted since 2008, has been carried out by pastel commissioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47346	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Honored Representative Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47347	Thank you, Vice President. Namely, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals is proposed to delete the Article. 23, which is prescribed that the bee pasha cadastre is run by the ministry. Previous public institutions, which are now part of the ministry, we mean HPA and the advisory service can run a cadastre. Transferring tasks to others will lead to new costs for beekeepers, and the ministry alone has more than 1,000 employees and jobs can perform on official duty, for which citizens pay. As far as we know, this cadastre was established in 2011 and has been allocated significant funds from the state budget. The disaster is the basic base of beekeeping and monitoring of the inter-relevant potential as an important factor for sector development and growth in production. With this ministry he throws away the money and abolishes the cadastre that leaves part of the business to the Croatian beekeeper's alliance, which is unacceptable. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47348	Amendment number 5, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47349	The amendment is not accepted. So the operational management of the pasture order and the schedule of stationary ovary bees, the time of arrival and departure of bee communities from pasture, the way of editing and marking the position, all of this is carried out by the Croatian beekeeping alliance throughout the Republic of Croatia since 2008, with what I have already stated through my 125 beekeepers as a pastel commissioner. Detailed implementation of the operational part, the management of the pasture order will be prescribed by that Regulation. The proposed law also plans to adopt one regulation which operationally regulates the area of breeding and keeping the grey bee and the implementation of the pasture order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47350	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Honored Representative Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47351	Thank you, Mr. President. In this regard, Article 4 of the final proposal states that the operational part of the business of introducing the pasture is carried out by the Croatian beekeeper's Union. This provision is not clear enough because it does not prescribe what is meant by the operational part of the business and whether the state or beekeepers will pay compensation to the Croatian beekeeper's Union for them. Paragraph 6 shall give the Minister the right to regulate this by means of a regulation. We believe that such a provision should be clearly laid down by law, especially because there are no infringements in the event that the operational part of the business is carried out, is not implemented in accordance with the regulations. In addition, in the applicable law of Article 22, there is no paragraph 4 to which a call is made and in paragraph 6 of this Article, and in the final proposal of the Law, paragraph 4. Article 22 suggests that conditions for the fertilisation of cells are prescribed by the minister. For this reason, we propose to delete the word "in paragraph 6" and ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47352	Amendment number 6, MP Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47353	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the unique list of domestic animals with a shortened JLDZ is an integrated database covering the register of farms, the register of bovine animals, the unique register of sheep and goats, the unique register of pigs and the central register of copies. In the framework of the livestock registers, the JUDG shall contain data on animals for which the specific rules are laid down in the rules on the conduct of the unique registers. And within the farm register, it contains data on locations where domestic animals are kept in the Republic of Croatia. The farm register shall contain, in addition to the data on the location where the animals are kept and the data on their owner shall contain information on the type of animals in that location. The number of animal statuses shall be recorded in the registers of certain species of livestock or in other prescribed records. In the case of bees and bees, a number of conditions as well as other data relating to bees and bees shall be recorded in the records of beekeepers and bees that are part of the JUDG and shall be governed and kept in accordance with the specific regulation. The Croatian Agricultural Agency, which you consider to be able to keep the mentioned records, ceased its work on 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47354	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47355	Thank you, Vice President. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47356	That amendment has therefore been withdrawn. The next amendment is number seven, MP Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47357	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as for Amendment No 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47358	Thank you, but since MP Vukovac doesn't have a vote on him, we're going to have to vote. So Amendment number 8, representative of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47359	The amendment is not accepted. The interpretation is the same as for amendments 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47360	Since not even MP Selak Rasdic has a vote on the amendment, we will also have to vote. Amendment number 9, MP Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47361	The amendment is not accepted. Article 34 paragraph 17 of the Law prescribes the infringement provisions applicable to the placing on the market of queens of bees which are not produced at registered fertilising cells. The Regulation referred to in Article 34(1) of the 18th Act lays down the conditions for the accommodation of bees, the way bees are moved, the conditions of holding, the exploitation of bees, the protection of bees, the preparation and implementation of pasture, the way of management, the exploitation of bees in the field of pasture as well as the obligations of pasture users. The required obligations shall ensure the protection of human and animal health and also ensure transparent conditions for the proper accommodation of bee communities. The accommodation of bee communities on private property must meet minimum requirements in such a way as not to endanger the bees of other beekeepers by spreading disease or prey. Also, accommodation on the private surfaces of bees should not endanger the safety of people and other animals by using public areas or other private owners in their vicinity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47362	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47363	Thank you, Vice President. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47364	And that amendment has been withdrawn. 10th Amendment, MP Rose Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47365	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47366	Since MP Vukovac is gone, then we will have to vote on the amendment. Amendment number 11, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47367	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as for amendments 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47368	Since not even MP Selak Rasdic has a vote on him, we will have to vote. Amendment number 12, MP Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47369	The amendment is not accepted. Article 5 of the final proposal of the law lays down a transitional provision which provides that the applicable rules on bee-keeping and the catastro of bee pasture shall remain in force until the rules laid down in Article 1 of this Act enter into force. By way of derogation from the existing Regulation on the keeping of bees and catastro bees of pasture, pardons, there would be legal gaps since the same conditions for the proper accommodation of bee communities, the way bees are moved, the conditions of keeping and exploiting bees, the protection of bees, the preparation and implementation of pasture, the way of management, the exploitation of bees pastures within the grassland line as well as the obligations of pasture users.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47370	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47371	I'm withdrawing this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47372	The amendment has been withdrawn. 13th Amendment, MP Rose Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47373	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as for Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47374	Since MP Vukovic is not here on this amendment, we will have to vote. Amendment number 14, representative of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47375	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as for amendments 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47376	Since MP Selak Rasdic has no record of him, we will have to vote. Amendment number 15, MP Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47377	The amendment is not accepted, and the argument is that, by the fact that amendments 1, 2 and 3, are not accepted, neither 15, 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47378	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47379	Thank you, Vice President. I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47380	This amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 16 MPs, Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47381	The amendment is not accepted, also by the fact that amendments 1, 2 and 3 have not been accepted, neither are amendments 15, 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47382	Since there is no MP Vukovac, we will have to vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 17 representatives of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47383	The amendment is not accepted, as well as the fact that amendments 1, 2 and 3, are not accepted neither amendments15, 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47384	Since MP Selak Rasdic is not present either, we will have to vote on this amendment. This ended the amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47385	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, second reading, P.Z. No. 71. The promoter is a government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP representative club, representative Romana Nikolic, representative Ruzica Vukovac and representative Marija Selak Rasdic. The review of the amendments was submitted by electronic means, we discussed them earlier in the session, and now we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Let's go in turn, the first amendment of MP Romana Nikolic has been withdrawn. The second and third amendments are identical content, the government does not accept them, so we will vote. These are the amendment representatives of Ruzica Vukovac and representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic. So let's vote on amendments two and three. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 4. The SDP representative club is not accepted by the government, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 5, again SDP's Representatives' Club, the government does not accept it. Let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 6 by MP Romana Nikolic has been withdrawn. Amendments 7 and 8 are identical content, the government does not accept them and we will vote on the 7th and 8th amendments are representatives of Ruzica Vukovac and Marija Selak Rasdic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 9 by MP Romana Nikolic has been withdrawn. Amendments 10th and 11th of the same content, the government does not accept them, we will vote on one and the other. So, the 10th is the representative of Ruzica Vukovac, and the 11th representative of Marija Selak Rasudić. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 12, MP Romana Nikolic has been withdrawn. Amendment number 13 of MP Rose Vukovac, the government does not accept, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the necessary or the amendment did not receive the necessary votes. Amendment number 14 of Parliament's representative, Marija Selak Rasdic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. Finally, we have 15, 16 and 17 amendments that are identical content, the government does not accept them, we must vote, MPs Romana Nikolic, Ružica Vukovic and Marija Selak Rasdic. Let's vote on all three amendments. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes, so we move on to a vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 115 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 3 abstentions, 35 against and passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on raising domestic animals. Proposal for a law amending the Water Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 129, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Water Act and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 115 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 33 abstentions and 5 against, and the conclusion was reached, as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47691	We now move to a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on Official Controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 98. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives Club and by the SDP Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak. First of all, the amendment to the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47692	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47693	It becomes an integral part of the law. The SDP representative club has submitted several amendments, first I would like to request a statement on amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47694	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, as regards the system of official controls and other official activities and the registers of delegated bodies, easy and transparent access to data on delegated bodies entrusted with the exercise of official controls and other official activities has already been ensured. Registers are published, are regularly updated on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture. The obligation to keep and publish the notes in question on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture is already prescribed by legislation in the Republic of Croatia and is published on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture and that list of delegated bodies in veterinary law. 113th century 3. Veterinary law, list of delegated bodies to confirm the conformity of the product with the specification ZOI, ZOI, PDO and PDO of agricultural and food products, Art. No. 94th century. 14th century. The agricultural law, the list of delegated bodies of authorised control bodies to carry out part of official controls in relation to the confirmation of compliance with organic production rules and the issue of certificates in accordance with Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. 27. Regulations 834/2007 and Art. Paragraph 104. The agricultural law in accordance with Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. In the 16th century, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47695	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected representative Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47696	Thank you, Vice President. It is generally known that in the Republic of Croatia one institution has several databases. When it comes to a number of institutions, the number increases, as well as the number of companies that develop and maintain these databases. We have witnessed the development of an application in the health care system, and we wonder when such a way of working will end. On the subject of the system of official controls, we believe that in the interests of the public, but also of all stakeholders in the food supply chain, it is important to create a single database that would refer to this area. The first step in creating this base is to publish a single list of all legal and natural persons to whom authorisation has been granted, and to carry out official controls and other official activities entrusted. Many legal and physical persons need unique access to information. Now they are located in a number of non-connected bases, tied up, and sometimes even updated. The Ministry of Agriculture has already had to prepare a unique application in order to ensure transparency, increase and efficiency of the system of official controls, as well as to assist entrepreneurs and farmers. We ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47697	Amendment No. 2. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47698	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, procedures to be arranged by art. 12. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Furthermore, Articles 5 and 9 of the Regulations prescribe general obligations and rules which are required to comply with authorised persons and competent authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47699	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected representative Grman Kizivan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47700	Thank you. We hope that the procedures to be prepared or updated for the implementation of official controls shall contain checklists and fill-in instructions. They should also be consulted with the public in order to make the documents clear to all, and the controls themselves were faster with less doubt and open questions for entrepreneurs, but also with inspectors and authorised persons. It is clear that it is not prescribed. 12. EU Regulations 2017/625 but Member States may always carry out additional activities in order to increase efficiency and transparency. We are witnessing that inspectors and authorised persons in certain cases have a subjective approach or different treatment in the same situations which leads to suspicion of regularity and impartiality. By public publication of these documents on the basis of which official controls are carried out, the system itself would be more just and would reduce suspicion of conjecture. For that reason, we ask to vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47701	Amendment No. 3. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47702	The amendment is not accepted. Subject Art. 7th century 1st subparagraph 16. The final proposal of the Law shall be prescribed to draw up an annual report on the implementation of official controls and other official activities in cooperation with the competent authorities referred to in Article. 5. The law. The drawing up of the annual report shall be subject to the provision of an article. 113. EU Regulation 625/2017, Art. 7th century 1st subparagraph 6. The final proposal of the Law provides for the production of guides and procedures related to the implementation of other official activities, and is publicly published on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture and are regularly updated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47703	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected representative Grman Kizivan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47704	Thank you again, Vice President. In particular, guides and procedures for conducting other official controls should be prepared and updated through public consultation and subsequently made public on the official website under the designation of official controls. In this way, stakeholders in the food supply chain included in the official control system would have clearer guidelines for working and handling, and only the conduct of legal and physical persons would be much easier, it would not waste time on long-term procedures and addressing certain issues. The procedure itself, as I said, would be more transparent, faster and fairer for that reason, and I demand that this amendment be voted on as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47705	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with saying about the amendments submitted. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47706	Final proposal of the Law on official controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection, other reading, P.Z.E. No. 98. Proposer of the Government, debate concluded, the amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and the SDP Representatives' Club. We held the statement earlier at the session, so we will vote on those amendments that the motionor does not accept. We have amendment 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club which is accepted and becomes an integral part of the final draft law and we have 3 amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives, the first government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number two of the same club representatives, the government is against it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. And the 3rd amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. So we are going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on Official Controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, animal food, animal health and animal welfare, plant health and plant protection. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 116 MPs and MPs, 83 for, 6 abstentions, 27 against and thus passed the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47769	We now move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 97. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendment submitted, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47770	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment makes it clear that the amendment's proposer has accepted the government's progress proposal, as well as the day-to-day reasons for reducing the necessary work experience in the profession, primarily raising the quality of education for veterinarians. What may need to be explained here once again is that the maximum number of authorised veterinarians carry out simpler tasks of official activities such as pre-emptive vaccinations or samplings for prescribed diagnostic checks and tests under the national control programmes for infectious diseases. In addition, authorised veterinarians who carry out more complex tasks are exclusively staff of delegated bodies in accordance with Article. 5. Regulation 625/2017 on official controls or only the international standard under which they are accredited, therefore with 17 thousand 20, they are obliged to train veterinarians professionally and are responsible for the quality of their entrusted tasks. An additional 6 months of work under the supervision of an authorised veterinarian, as set out in the proposal from the Government, shall be sufficient to ensure that authorised veterinarians acquire the necessary knowledge and skills to carry out all the tasks entrusted to the delegated body in which they are employed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47771	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected representative Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47772	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, we disagree with you and have submitted an amendment because the applicable Veterinary Act states that a veterinarian who has at least 2 g may appoint a veterinarian for an authorised veterinarian. work experience in the profession and licence, passed a state and professional exam for the authorised veterinarian. You are proposing to reduce your work experience to only 6+6, which I explained yesterday on behalf of the club. We believe that this work experience is too short to carry out quality and professional tasks that an authorised veterinarian has. And we're aware that the veterinary study, even though it's 5, has been extended to 6. And that veterinarians have completed their studies under the new study program, probably now have higher competences. We do not insist on working hours of 2 years, but we consider our amendment to gain greater work experience. Thank you. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47773	You're looking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-07-0.u47774	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 97. Proposer of the Government, debate concluded, the amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. We held the statement at the session, so we will vote on this amendment which the applicant does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. So we're going to vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 115 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 12 abstentions and 26 against and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act was passed. Proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 44, Anka is a representative of Mrak-Taritash, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act is not accepted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 117 MPs and MPs voted, 74 for, 5 abstentions, 38 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue the session after the local elections, on Wednesday, 19 May at 9:30 p.m. 88 of our colleagues and colleagues participate in the elections, some of them are candidates for executive positions, some for congregations and councils, I wish everyone good results, a lot of success and good luck to you. I'll see you. SESSION FINISHED IN 12.39 HOURS
