ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27275	Let's move on, now it's SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Mirela Ahmetovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27276	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. According to repeated repetitions, the government of Andrej Plenkovic has not learned anything on the debts of the wholesalers. He doesn't seem to want to learn. By persistently avoiding recognition that the problem exists, by sticking his head in the sand and seeking transparent excuses, the debts will not be deleted. For months, the SDP club has warned that the problem of debt to wholesales must be resolved systematically. We also warned this last year in the 10th month that it was this situation when the debt grew to more than six billion kunas, which is about 4,07% of the state deficit and 4,07% of the Croatian state budget. We're talking about a budget deficit that's pretty much above the one that's qualified us to enter the Eurozone. It is an incredible ease to justify Minister Beros who accuses of this situation of course of high-priced drugs. The minister's justification is that the HZZO has registered 3.6 billion kunas of debt because it is driven by a maturity of debt, not how they do it by making a big deal out of bills. What is the level of underestimation of the common sense of Croatian citizens is the fact that certain hospitals owe more than a year, which is certainly longer than the legal payment deadline of Minister Beros. However, the fact that hospitals are late with payments is no wonder if we know who is leading them, they are led by prominent HDZ members, both in Zagreb and in the counties where HDZ is in power. For example, the Dubrovnik hospital was put into crisis, led by the director, who is the town council director of the HDZ in the City Council of Dubrovnik, a gentleman who vaccinated the family, priests and chief of police administration. The question arises when Minister Beros talks about blackmailing wholesalers why does the Government of the Republic of Croatia's irresponsible staffing and management allow such blackmail? Why must the debt of large-scale drugs and the irresponsible management of the finances of the Government of the Republic of Croatia be broken over the back of Croatian citizens? If we ask citizens to settle their debts, to settle their obligations, why don't we do it ourselves? Why don't citizens have the luxury to owe more than a year? Why is the government hypocritical, and why does it allow her irresponsible behaviour to be questioned by the health care of Croatian citizens? The SDP government reduced debt to half of 2015. She reduced the payment deadlines should have just kept going. You had a complete recovery plan, I know that your problem is to admit when someone else is responsible or more responsible than you, but try to overcome your enormous ego for what Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic teaches you and in the interest of Croatian citizens listen to suggestions and others and do something positive other than corrupt affairs that you have destroyed Croatia. To begin with, listen to our two concrete proposals. The government of the Republic of Croatia must come up with a plan to determine in agreement with the wholesales the dynamics of the cross-cutting return of the due debt at a time interval that will not burden state finances. The government of the Republic of Croatia must reorganise the hospital system, optimise consumption and bring financial experts at the head of the hospital that will make a complete recovery plan without touching the salaries of the medical staff and make an audit of public procurement. They release stories about the establishment of state-owned drugstores in which HDZ and the Workers' Front are just fogs with which you're clouding reality. Such an idea would not solve anything because of whom the state's wholesale drug supply would be available. You'd get drugs for free? Hardly. There is no free lunch gentlemen from HDZ, all of which are paid by Croatian citizens, they pay their debts, as well as those left by HDZ. You act like a nog, you know all the problems, and you stick your head in the sand. You must remove it from that sand and start solving the problems you have accumulated and do so quickly, efficiently and preferably without criminal activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27336	The third will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27337	146 days lasted by the only Croatian government in which minorities were not participated. It was the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, and at the time it was the most influential, most important political figure Tomislav Karamarko. Today, Tomislav Karamark is not mentioned by anyone, and even though a few days ago, the administrative court gave him a great satisfaction because on February 24th, the administrative court decided that the decision of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest was to blame or that Tomislav Karamarko was not to blame as the Commission said in 2016. Let's try to remember that 2016. Every day, all day, from all the portals, from all the TVs and all the media, there were headlines about the alleged conflict of interest of Tomislav Karamark because his wife worked for a company that she allegedly worked for the INA, a terrible delinquent. And it was created in the Croatian public literally a link of one person to Tomislav Karamark, and today when it was declared innocent nobody talks about it. No one says Tomislav Karamarko is innocent, not guilty. How about we go a little deeper into the metrics, where was the problem? The problem was that Tomislav Karamarko wanted to get out of INA-MOL arbitration. Did he make it? He didn't make it. Because that's when the SDP and the Bridge, and the HDZ behaves as it is today, no, they decided they should get out of arbitration and, excuse me, that they should stay in arbitration, and what happened in the end? Croatia has lost no less than 5 billion euros, 5 billion euros. Is that what this is about? Don't talk. Is the report by Andrej Plenkovic to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the "Borg" Group on the solution to the Agrokor problem? Don't talk. That's not what the media is talking about. I know that this speech of mine will not come on national television because it must not come, as well as on national televisions in central news shows will not come news that Tomislav Karamarko is freed and not guilty and that he has no conflict of interest and no one is bothered that today the head of the SDP office at the SDP Club is GONG, and this same person was the main advocate of the destruction of Tomislav Karamark. No one is bothered that Dalia Oreshkovic is today a representative in HS. No one. And she was in charge and responsible for destroying Tomislav Karamark. So obviously we have double standards. Obviously, we have one kind of rule, for other rules of the other kind. Tomislav Karamarko, that by any chance some guilt has been proved, I'm sure he would still be in all the headlines, and since he was found innocent, or not guilty, we won't talk about it, we need to keep quiet about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27388	Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Bojan Glavasevic, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27389	A few days ago, the CNB published on its site only a century ago under the heading "Macroprudenceal diagnostics" which discusses risks to financial stability in Croatia. As one of the most important and major risks, the further rise in real estate prices is said despite the deterioration of the economic situation and particularly the apostrophe of the adverse role of APN, which the CNB says is guilty of the fact that the average housing prices are at the highest levels so far. This CNB report has finally confirmed what we from the green-left coalition have many times warned that this subsidy policy not only does not achieve the desired effect, but achieves the effect exactly opposite of the desired one and especially among young people. In Croatia, housing policy has been neglected, it is reduced to encouraging and borrowing households by residential loans, not a single government in the 1990s has recognised housing policy as a complex problem and social task that requires a sustainable financing strategy for public and non-profit housing, regulation of the relationship between the tenant and the tenant, and the capacitation of local self-government to put this problem under control and manage it in a sustainable manner. Housing policy, housing issues especially affect younger generations, between 70% and 80% of young people aged 18 and 34. She's still living with her parents. Young people in Croatia can't even find a job, and even less can afford to buy real estate and thus have been denied emancipation. This and this policy of subsidising residential loans only achieves that hundreds of millions of kunas of public money eventually end up as profits from banks and real estate sellers rather than investing in the construction of public rent apartments. The first reason why such a housing policy has been missed is that in months, state subsidies for real estate prices have been granted, especially in Zagreb and on the coast. The most beneficial of these are banks whose loans are subsidized by the state helping them in a better lending process. As the average price increases during the bank's subsidies, they generate higher profits, as well as real estate sellers. Another reason why such a policy has been missed is that credit subsidies are not available to a large number of young people who are not creditworthy because they have a fixed-term working contract, an occasional working contract and the like. It is clear that this policy is not based on facts and the truth about how young people live in Croatia. Although declared to be a younger population, this measure does not take into account the important and increasingly present trends towards which young people are increasingly working on short-term contracts and in other forms of temporary work, which is why they cannot receive loans or are eligible for them. The priority of housing policy rather than subsidising bank loans for the purchase of apartments should be the development of a public housing fund, such apartments are only 2% in Croatia now, while the European average is 15%. The advantages of public rental apartments are that they cannot be resold, remain in permanent public ownership and are available to a wider circle of citizens and citizens, including young people. In addition to opening up a life-saving opportunity for a more favourable lease available to a much wider circle of people, public housing for young people also creates greater security and indirectly affects a whole series of life decisions. The offer of a cheaper public lease would stabilize the overall movement of real estate prices, but none of this seems to interest this government. I would suggest to the prime minister and ministers that, in the future, they are not based on their privileged party subjugation but on real young people, those who are not and will never be like Carlo Ressler, Davor Filipovic or some other privileged party bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27451	The fifth will be the House Movement Representatives' Club and dear colleague Davor Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27452	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public, good afternoon, everyone. Let me introduce myself. My name is Davor Dretar, I'm a parliamentary representative of the Homeland Movement, and like the other members of my party, I'm most likely a terrorist. It's not something a man would easily admit. To be honest, I'm not entirely sure that's the case either. Anyway, I'll present my case to you, so you can judge for yourself. When I started thinking about the fact that I was obviously a terrorist, it was reasonable to start from the source. What is a terrorist and who is the person who has the knowledge, ability and authority to call me that? I started with the definition, it's not hard to find her, I found her in books, and I immediately recognized myself, a terrorist is namely a person who is deliberately acting at instilling fear with the intention of scaring the government to achieve goals that are generally political, religious or ideological. So that's the definition and where and in what part of that same definition I recognized myself, I'll tell you right now. I have thoughtfully acted, lived in Croatia since birth, purposefully and very thoughtfully, here I've been studying, here I've started working, here I've started working, here I've started my family, here I'm going to be taken to rest forever, but all the time I've thought about how in this Croatia, corruption, nepotism, social injustice, how one is rich over every measure, and the other is begging for bread, after 30, 40 or more years of working time. I deliberately observe, admit, how and how powerful, how wheels, fists or bows of their yachts take human lives, how entire families throw on the street, how they lock up a grandmother who sells cheese on the road for 20 kn, how they make people into debt slavery, how they rob defensive apartments while these same defenders kill each other out of despair. I've got nothing to say, I've made up my mind, and I've made up my mind that it's my right, my duty, my privilege and my mission to do everything in my power to change this situation for the better. But if I just stop, I talk about all of this, I'm going to get a sticker label, hate speakers, and there it is, Davor Dretar, a nice, verbal terrorist. The second part of my thinking, who told me I was all of it? I'll try to describe it to you. He's intelligent, well-dressed, charming, eloquent, confident, based on complete understanding of anyone or anything, in short, anything. She has the ability to enlighten the truth to those who are not able to see her alone or to know her and to do this insecurely in a modest and mentally weaker manner, as some wise old man from a folk story or a cloth of dangerous yoga at the mouth of Ganges. Speaks understandablely, using simple syntagms and that's important. This won't work for you, there's people catch, there's a serious threat to wrap it up like that, it just depends on how you read it, it's clowns, that movie you won't watch or sometimes propheticly, they'll never come to power. If he's caught in the outing of the truth, the amazingly easy way to get in front of a new network of old threads, right by the ballad, there's always a top excuse ready to take him out of everything, I didn't know. But when the ink is spilled, when the entrepreneurship boys and girls are not with the fingers but to the elbows in the jam, they'll say again "I didn't know" and they can use and tell everyone everything they need to know, use someone's compassion and install half or completely invented conspiracy theories, humbled to elevate him and humiliate anyone who thinks or does otherwise. Now, I've brought up my case, and you can estimate whether Davor Dretar and the MPs of the Homeland Movement of Terrorists or just people who want to change this country to be just, true and truthful? Because I love mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27525	Let's move on, the 2nd Club is a Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27526	Thank you, well-respected President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The term "single-horn", a mythical creature, similar to a horse with one horn except for the picture books and cartoons, has become increasingly attached to business lately. The unicorn is namely the start-up of companies worth more than a billion dollars. The name "one-horn" for such companies began in 2013, and the mythic being was chosen as a symbol of the low statistical probability that the "Startup" of the company is worth a billion dollars. For now, Croatia has one company of unicorns and one that is on track to become by the end of the year. Our unicorn is a Vodnjan "Infobit" whose market value is approximately six months ago after a major investment exceeded a billion dollars. The company is well on its way to becoming the "Rimac Cars" who plan to enter an elite unicorn society by the end of this year after two rounds of capital collection. Neither about "Infobit", nor about "Rimac", I hope no one in Croatia should be explained much more. High technology, knowledge and products at the top of the world, constant new employment, growing markets, success not thanks to the usual situation with companies in Croatia. These companies are all what the Croatian economy should look like to become a country of good jobs with added value. A billion dollars, therefore, worth of Startup to become a unicorn, is on the way to say a little less than six billion and 300 million kuna. I don't know what kind of mythologies that mention unicorn beings call a being that's a purely opposite, but in our country it's called the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health. Because, exactly how much the most successful and pervasive Croatian Startup company is worth so much to this government's debt to the wholesalers. For medicines, we owe no less than one "Infobit" or one "Roman". The only thing I don't know yet is whether the value of these most successful Croatian companies can grow at the rate that the drug debt is growing? I honestly doubt if debt is growing 20 million kunas a day. Debt for larger delivery goods is mass disregarded and does not pay, even more than 365 days, so for a whole one year, which is 6 times longer than the prescribed deadlines. Of course, a regular and timely supply of drugs and other materials has come into question again, and hospitals will again be charged millions of kunas in judicial and executive costs. In order to make things even more tragic, the great drugs of their commitment to the state, taxes and contributions must be paid in time. Croatian citizens give about 30 billion kuna per year for healthcare. Nevertheless, debt has completely out of control, which is a huge threat to the stability of public finances. And what does Minister Berosh do? He commented on the situation with the usual combination of debt denial and the guilt of citizens who do not stand out enough for health care, and on the other hand still use his services too much. I would like someone to finally come to the assembly in front of Croatian citizens with a serious analysis of this financial and organisationally abandoned system, so let's see where all the unnecessary leaks thousands, millions, billions of kunas before all the guilt comes back to who knows which way to the citizens. Until then, Croatia may also get another unicorn because of a private initiative. Unfortunately, they will still be mythical beings who are actually impossible to meet until the unicorns in power stop hoarding billions of kunas or dollars in debt due to ignorance, irresponsibility and inability to take anything seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27624	It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and esteemed counterpart Ivan Celjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27625	Dear president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The tax application deadline expired on Monday. A large number of taxpayers did not have to submit a tax application on their own, but the IRS did so for them. This year's tax return will have a particular impact on young people in Croatia because the state has introduced a measure concerning the tax status of young workers. The aim of the tax change was to keep young people in Croatia and to commit in Croatia, and this should ultimately result in higher personal incomes. The government of the Republic of Croatia has provided new measures for young people whose effects will be seen in their accounts already in the summer, and so today I look back on the measure for young people because all young people under the age of 25 are exempt from paying taxes on income and cut, and those who are in the age group of 26 to 30 pay only 50% of the tax. The total return on more tax and income cuts will amount to around 2 billion kuna, with this measure concerning the tax discharge of young people, 300,000 young people will receive 700 million kuna tax returns. For young people, this will mean a number of savings, which can then be rerouted to other needs. And I will remind you that our government has taken another step forward for young people and for housing. As regards housing, subsidisation of housing loans for young people was continued until 31 December 2023. for each calendar year or budget year. This measure covers persons up to 45 years of age, the amount of the subsidy depends on the development index of the place where the property is bought or built and ranges from 30 to 51%, and is granted in the first five years of payment of the housing loan. This measure is also a demographic measure as two years are extended for each live birth or adopted child during the subsidy period. The government has taken concrete steps with these measures for the benefit of young people, and I believe that with these measures we will find some other models for young people, especially from the area from which I come from Sisak-Moslavina County where young people live in the conditions of the disaster that hit us at the end of last year. We must do everything possible to keep young people in our area, first of all restore schools, develop high school, higher education programs that will ensure that young people are competitive on the labour market. We are also proud of the project developed at the New Regional Centre for the Development of Video Games in the fastest growing industry in the world. The next step is Campus for the gaming industry which will include, among other things, colleges, accommodations for students and students, accelerator gaming industry and entrepreneurial incubator for e-sports. In my Sisak soon begins the arrangement of the former Domobrana military station, which will give part of the city not only a new appearance but also bring young people through the Regional Centre of Competence to learn, develop new skills and encourage them to innovation. This will make Sisak the centre of Sisak-Moslavina County a centre of education and innovation. All these major projects would not be possible without state support and funds from eu funds. It is precisely an emphasis on education, youth employment, their competitiveness in the labour market, the establishment of a family in our homeland, the subsidisation of the purchase of a house or apartment, and the tax relief part of the concrete measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia implements, and which then cities, municipalities and counties can further extend, for example, through benefits for newborn children, the release of kindergarten payments, school meals, etc. We need to inform as many young people as possible about their rights and the measures the state brings for them so that they can use them and improve their quality of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27693	Honorable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives, good afternoon. Before the start of today's meeting of the Croatian Parliament, I invite you to remember the late mayor of Zagreb, Milan Bandić. After Mr. Bandic remains a rich political career, we will remember him by the great and working energy, the political passion and love he had for the city of Zagreb, which is why citizens and citizens of Zagreb chose him six times as mayor. Also, 5 times has been chosen as a representative in HS in 2000, 2003, 2008, 2015 and 2016. I extend my sincere condolences to his family, friends and associates once again, and now I ask you to stand up for a minute of silence. - A minute of silence – Make it an easy Croatian country. Now we're going to take the stand of representatives' clubs and independent representatives. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most and Honored counterpart Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27694	Thank you, dear Mr. Jandrokovic, Mr. Bukarica, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Generally speaking, populistism is often defined as one form of politics that shows closeness to the people and instrumentsises a form of dissatisfaction with that same people. However, the sociological concept of populism in its habitat means the thin ideology of its species, which has a view of a society in which there are two antagonistic groups. On the one hand, dissatisfaction or people, as such, and on the other hand a corrupt elite. In this view, the people are groups of small, honest, honest, and even naive people who have lost the ability to participate in political decision-making processes and who are no longer sovereign and depend entirely on the decisions of these political elites, and the political elites in this view are a compact and networked group of individuals represented by prominent individuals, morally depraved, corrupt and guided only by their own interest in the damage of an honest and naive people. As in our Croatia, everything is different, starting with the blue sky, which is yellow, through the glasses that the rulings observe life, the everyday life of the citizens of our country, and then the meaning and ownership of public money, the distribution of the same and not counting further, so is the definition of populism. For the ruling, populism is all that comes out of the mouth of the opposition, regardless of the volume of truth spoken or the suspicion of which the opposition as such points out. And not only that, they took the ruling right to define themselves and who this patriot is, who loves our Croatia, who can work where they can work, who can have what, where and what they will invest, who can say and write and not list a sequel to the series. But how does it all work? Well, it's very simple, the principle of the Indian tribe's functioning. By ruling to protect each other, solid coalitions, from local to state level, where all the prostitution of politics, honesty, attitudes, ideology, programs, and everything. Under cover of how they want the common good, everything at the cost of taking the prey they later share with each other. The culmination occurs at the moment of the replacement of that sheep's humble suit worn before the election into a predatory wolf, a boastful suit after the election and all under cover of something new, something different, fairer, more God-fearing, more patriotic, etc. And then again after the old man, take care of yourself first, and then, of course, take care of your own, and it's your turn even to the younger ones who come. And the people, and the state, and the cry for the graves of those who created this land? It's for the ruling populism. The pulsism and the extinguished candle of hope in a better life. Popularism is the number of all those who have long ago lifted the anchor and gone elsewhere. The population is totally devastated by Dalmatia. The population is completely displaced and devastated by the Imotian landscape. The population is 65,000 people who have been robbed and have remained on the street for bankruptcy. Popularism is everything but a humble bowing and beating of water at all levels of government that do what they want and how they will, and if you rebel, the rule of law reacts because there is only one end in Croatia. You have to keep quiet, survive and be a sort of mutative sheep, and maybe something from you when you're in line, because, they privatized regional-local leaders and public money, they consider it to be their hard-earned sheep, so they give it what they want, the criteria they've defined without any criteria, and again, of course, by May, follows the period of piety, humility and smile and promises of the political Indians in white shirts, ties, suits, and after that, how we've already accepted all of this, and we're watching the kickings. Keep us from ourselves, God. [[Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27739	4th debate, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27740	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. 1.1.2020 entered into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship. This law contains two very important solutions to which the Club of Representatives of the SDSS has given special attention. One of these solutions is the correction of 30 years of long injustice, made by a pure administrative error in the former state. Namely, they did not have the number of children.../incomprehensible/... Croatian citizens who did not exercise the right to Croatian citizenship because the error of the matrimonarian was written in another republican citizenship, not Croatian. They are not considered Croatian citizens. These amendments, which entered into force in 1.1.2020, corrected that error. Another important thing is the solution that concerns citizens living abroad, who, due to their own failure, have not been included in the citizens' home book and these changes and additions, have been enabled. These children are now of age and have a period of 2 years to ask themselves to be enrolled in citizenship, in the home book of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As I said, these two very important provisions are really important and important, and for this a period of 2 years has been ensured, however, under normal circumstances, and two years are indeed enough and enough for all interested parties to act in accordance with the applicable provisions of the law. However, the coronavirus, a Zagreb earthquake, a banish earthquake, have further complicated and requested adjustments to the regime of the work of state and public bodies, as well as diplomatic consular offices of the Republic of Croatia abroad. Well, it looked like this in practice. According to the Law on Citizenship, the parties to the State's residence were referred to the appointment of an appointment, the date of arrival to an embassy or consulate, and given the number of interested citizens, this appointment took several months. In some offices, the first term was exclusively advisory and then the next one was waiting for several months. On this occasion, the parties would receive several recommendations and would be given the opportunity to make payments to the necessary fees and to schedule that second and new term. This, of course, unless they are deterred from applying because they are suggested to have no basis for exercising the right to Croatian citizenship without further elaborated. There is another problem, and that is the restrictive implementation of that same law. The Implementing Body is the Ministry of the Interior and has published on its web pages instructions on the procedure in which the procedure is explained in detail on request for acquisition, request for termination or establishment of Croatian citizenship. In doing so, the provision of the law of the Member States is clearly cited. Article 5(2), however, even though this provision is clearly cited and it is unequivocal, the MUP added in the abovementioned instructions on the procedure another part which does not stand in the law or even in the sublaws that follow this law, which is that the cited legal provision applies only to persons born after 8. Ten. 1991. With such restrictive interpretation, a good part of the person has fallen out of the circle of authorising officers who can consume the rights provided for by this law. Therefore, for the sake of correct interpretation of the uniform application of the law, I hereby announce that we will use, that the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will use the legal institute of credible interpretation of the law in situations of the wrong and different interpretation of this law. At the same time, I urge that, for the above reasons that I have said something about the crown of the virus and of the banish and Zagreb earthquake, the deadline for obtaining Croatian citizenship should be extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27780	And last registered on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU, the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, just a little please wipe out the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27781	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I don't have any prepared paper, I'm going to speak from the head and heart because I find it very irresponsible in some way to blame the citizens or blackmail the citizens with a possible shortage of drugs, to even place that information towards them. Why is that rude, irresponsible? Because the citizens have fulfilled all their obligations. Whether workers are paying contributions, whether they are pensioners and pay 3% of the additional health contribution, whether they are not insured and paying for participations, whether they are provided supplementary health insurance and pay for the monthly health insurance policy. So, citizens in this big drug dispute have absolutely no responsibility, so they have fulfilled all the obligations, if they hadn't already had to do, therefore, they have to get the drugs. Where's the mistake? There's a mistake on the system. The health care system, the health funding system. If one system generates debt to large-scale drugs for 20 years, what should it do? So we need to change the way we work. You need to change the way you work. Of course, I understand also the directors who get some money from HZZO and the first thing they do, pay the workers, their employees, doctors, healthcare staff, other employees. And at the end of the ballad, the drugs remain and debt remains to the big drugstores because they can wait, because they've been taught to wait for years, they orderly charge the cost of funding and then when they cross a certain line, then there's this blackmail that goes very unethically over the back of citizens instead of name and last name saying where is the responsibility for this condition. Of course, in this whole health care system, not even the pineapples that get hospitals by the number of beds, services, and everything that's planned is enough. And there's an objective problem. There is a problem with the overall financing of the health system. How do you get out of this vicious circle? Very simply, medicines must be paid at a lower price than is now in a way that HZZO pays directly for the use of medicines. In a centralised state such as Croatia, that would be no problem. And what should we do before that? It is necessary to sit down with large-scale drugs, reprogramme that debt which is already too large and overcharged by the cost of funding because no normal can endure late payment for a year, should be refinanced for 5 years of those 6 billion and start paying regularly every month for the use of medicines. Then never again will the citizens of this Republic be set up as hostages and that someone will call for an artificial shortage of drugs due to non-payment. Citizens absolutely have no need for any fear that there will be no medication in the pharmacy. That's where the citizens pay neatly, get paid, and they'll be there. The only fear they can have is that because of a system failure they don't get the right medication at the hospital. Where it has to be. And that's the essence of the whole problem, these are just bickerings, who, in order for a chicken or egg to need a cut, needs a debt reprogramme and should introduce a direct regular payment of the consumption of drugs without creating these financial tails. Until this is resolved, happiness is gone, this will be repeated every six months, every year, every government, hence, no one will avoid this. I only ask citizens to be calm, they have to get their own medications, the mistake is on the system, they're completely correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u27782	I thank everyone who participated in the debate. We now move to the agenda, as we have announced, first item: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 116 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Now, I would like to ask the proposer's representative to further explain the bill's proposal. With us is the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Željko Plazonić. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36884	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Therefore, in view of the need to bring national legislation into line with the Law on Foreigners in the field of health insurance and health protection of foreigners, this legislative proposal regulates the way in which the right to the health care of third-country nationals, so-called ‘Treasury’, is exercised. digital nomads. The adoption of this law will allow for the achievement of and the right to health care with digital nomads, etc. the digital nomads, i.e. third-country nationals who are employed or who carry out their tasks through communication technology for a company or own company which is not registered in the Republic of Croatia and which does not perform business or provide services to employers in the area of the Republic of Croatia, which has been granted a temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia. The application for compulsory health insurance is not required to submit a third-country national to a temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of staying, etc. the digital nomad, and it is required to bear the costs of using health care in a health institution or in a healthcare professional of private practice or other healthcare provider in the Republic of Croatia. The following is what we propose to adopt this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36885	Thank you, too. Please stay here because there are several replicas, the first is the respected colleague Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36886	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, this Health Insurance Act and the Health Protection of Foreigners defines who is obliged to submit mandatory health insurance and who pays for himself. Now, so some will go to private health institutions, some will go to state health institutions. One of the articles and this legislative proposal, i.e. those referred to in 2018 and 2013, says that the time limit for providing health care for those who have compulsory health insurance must be aligned with the waiting list with other users of compulsory health insurance. Did you give instructions to health institutions how to behave, means when a stranger who has compulsory health insurance comes to you and sees the waiting list, how they will react, will give him an appointment before or especially the one who pays alone or will have to manage it and go to a private health care facility where safe and higher prices are, you know what the miserable prices HZZO pays to hospitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36887	Here's your answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36888	I thought I'd talk to you now. I hope so. The law clearly cannot go into such details because it would then be a great detailing and determining something that, for example, would not be right on our side of the ministry. Each of these health care users can choose where they will achieve their health care, it is his right and does not have to pay the obligation to contribute to health care as is mandatory for all Croatian citizens. Thus, depending on the nature of the disease in the first place, he will contact someone who can and is confident that his service will satisfy his health needs. Therefore, such things are difficult to prejudge with legislation. The important thing is that he doesn't have to pay mandatory as so far there have been 400 kunas for the use of our health system services.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36889	Thank you. The second is honorary colleague Ban Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36890	Dear Secretary of State, I am interested in whether foreigners have the right to cash benefits which include salary compensation during the temporary inability to work caused by a recognised labour injury, transportation costs related to the use of health care from compulsory health insurance resulting from a recognised labour injury or funeral costs when death is a direct injury recognised at work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36891	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36892	The answer is very short. They don't. This is the right of our health insurance companies to do what you have all stated, but usually they are called digital nomads means that they deal only with most of the communication technologies, so by example they work in some Western or overseas countries by their electronic means of work, they live in Croatia because it is much cheaper than living in New York, for example, and they exercise health rights as foreigners without paying contributions to compulsory health insurance. Therefore, they only use the cheaper status of life in Croatia than they would be if they were working in the United States or anywhere else in the West.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36893	Now it's time for your colleague to find it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36894	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, we are talking about health care that requires the supply of medicines, and regardless of what it is about foreigners, the same thing as it is necessary when it comes to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we know that the supply of medicines is at least questionable. So why is it that this government's priority is to take care of, for example, state-run losers such as "Croatia airlines" and similar or refurbishing apartments in Mažuranc, and not the priority of supplying medicines? And second question, what happens if someone, whether a stranger or a citizen of the Republic of Croatia doesn't pay for additional health insurance for a year, does he still have that health insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36895	So on this first question I must say that this probably government is clearly concerned that there is no shortage of medicines in the Croatian health market as a whole. That this is how we can only testify by one fact that the Republic of Croatia is one of all EU countries with the highest number of authorised, especially expensive medicines for the treatment of malignant diseases in Europe. Our range that we have and which HZZO has approved has no country that is significantly richer than Croatia in Europe. Therefore, one is the market for medicines, and the other is the health system as a whole. Therefore, it will certainly not happen that our citizens will not be able to get the medicines they need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36896	Now it's my friend Selak Rasdic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36897	Dear Secretary, it is known that digital nomads are digital nomads because they are not prone to the system. Therefore, they would prefer not to have to follow any regulations when entering the country in terms of regulation of their status. In that sense, my question is, do you see the possibility of abuse of this legal provision, can it happen, for example, that someone who does not work as a digital nomad takes advantage of such privileges, or will digital nomads be checked, checked for their status, that they have a visa as digital nomads before using any health service? And who exactly are you targeting with these legal provisions, do you have a broader plan of what's still going to happen, this is the third amendment to the law that goes towards digital nomads, which is going to change everything to create some kind of coverage space that should include digital nomads?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36898	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36899	This term of digital nomads and the definition of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia is actually an example of content in one law and another. We only wanted through that law and in our legislative framework to classify that term and define it more accurately. We need to start from the fact that health care is providing services to someone based on something. Therefore, the one who is insured, and these health nomads can have their own insurance in their home countries, then their services, will be charged, beyond that, by our accounts in their home country. If he doesn't, he'll have to pay like any other citizen who doesn't have health insurance in some form of direct payment. And whether it's abuse, it's not exactly a question of this law or the Ministry of Health, a question of the status that someone gave him, and that's what you know who gives him that status.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36900	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36901	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, just for a little while. Do we have any information on the current number? digital nomads in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36902	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36903	I don't have that information, that should be asked by those who give these people that status, and that's known to be the Ministry of the Interior, not the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36904	And the last replica, dear colleague Cappelly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36905	Dear President, Secretary of State, I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore recognised the importance of resolving the issues of categories of digital nomads because we have been witnessing for a long time now that the shift in global tourism is and that digital nomads, one of them and Croatia are recently and rewarded for the way of promotion of the Republic of Croatia around the world and Europe. I just wanted to ask if these digital nomads, for example, we have that type of solution of family doctor, etc., etc., how are they regulated since they move around the area of the Republic of Croatia, a month in Zagreb, a month in Dubrovnik, etc., how do they solve the question, when they appear, in the hospital, and how are they treated in that case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36906	So it's normally in our interest as a state that we have as many of these digital nomads as possible because they're raising probably our standard of living there in the places where they live, because they're citizens of these places, especially our coastal cities, islands, etc., they clearly communicate and transfer some of their technology and locals, so that's the same kind of so-called. passive transfer of knowledge, because these are usually highly educated personnel who use the most technological opportunities to communicate with their home countries and with the whole world, in the end line. I didn't even know I had a digital nomad family, but now I do. However, if they experience any need for a health care system, they will use that service where they are at some point. Depending on what service they need, that will be the answer. The health system at that service. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36907	Thank you, Secretary of State, no more replicas, so please return to your seat. And now I'm going to ask the representatives of the board if they'll take the floor? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] No, I don't. Then we open the debate. The first is a respected colleague, Marija Selak Rasudiæ, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36908	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Parliament. So, this law deals with that, we simply say, with digital nomads and regulation of their status in Croatia. This is the third in a series of legal changes that should go towards facilitating stay in Croatia with digital nomads. How'd it all go? We didn't find out, but we can assume from some media inscriptions that someone made a proposal, and the government did it with some kind of sexy solution, so they threw a little of that notion through our laws naively thinking that it was just like that and that it would be an instant advertising campaign for hordes of submerged world wanderers that would, you wouldn't believe, blow up the local economy. And what exactly is going on? We won't mention that this is another law that goes according to emergency procedures. What other laws are we going to scratch to regulate the status of a digital nomad? Where's the plan? Ladies and gentlemen, where's the digital nomad regulation plan? We here need to accept another legislative amendment that I'm going to say something more detailed about, and I don't know how many more legal changes we're going to make so that we can assess how much this approach is relevant and how much of it will benefit, so on and so on. digital nomads, but also the Republic of Croatia. What's really going on? What's going on in the world with digital nomads? We're here playing or copying Estonia that regulated their status as early as the 8th month, and that's maybe positive, but why are we taking just a few ideas if we want to be Estonia? Estonia is one of the pioneers of the so - called electronic status. e-Citizen and one of the pioneers of electronic voting. Would we be able to copy from Estonia the electronic voting system to finally enable the democratisation of the voting process in Croatia when we are so brave and so quick to accept these modern terms without even considering and offering a plan to implement them in our entire legislative framework and to make some assessment of what this will even mean in practice. Or should we think about who the digital nomads are? Will the local economy really explode because of them? Digital nomads are not some relaxed dominoes of individuals who lie on the beaches and spend furiously, they are large workers, not dominoes, who choose cheap countries and countries that generally have a low rate of labour taxation. We do not really tax their work here, or we have already changed that by earlier amendments to the Income Act, but for digital nomads it is important because the country is in principle highly taxing work because it can happen that after a year of staying in the country they stay and decide to settle in it more permanently. In this sense, the question is open, is Croatia really an attractive place for digital nomads and its prices, but also the way it treats the work of the domicile population? So if you really want to make Croatia attractive with digital nomads first make it acceptable to its own residents. So, we've regulated digital nomads by the Foreign Law. In 57, we haven't explained how someone will prove that they are also digital nomads in view of this fluid interpretation. What we have done has just introduced a new purpose of temporary stay regarding the stay of the digital nomad. Thus, the digital nomad is a third-country national and it is important to point out here, so this does not apply to countries belonging to the EU and to countries that are usually more frequent visitors to Croatia because in order to even talk about the digital nomad, it is necessary to bear in mind how many foreigners are coming to Croatia. So are we dealing with some modern cosmetic changes or something that really weighs in Croatian society, which is an acute problem or a quick solution, so that we need to change the legislative framework urgently by emergency procedure? According to eVisitor, the latest data showed that only 4,000 foreigners were currently reported in the country in those foreigners to be preceded by guests from BiH, Germany and Slovenia while citizens of the United States followed the citizens of Serbia and Italy in 4th place. So part of these citizens, of course, are related to Croatia's fact that there may be a cottage here, perhaps, of these neighbouring countries, while for these further countries this is probably not the case. So it's about 90 Brits, for example, that's not big numbers that make us expect the economy to flourish. Another issue that is being imposed and that shows one trend that is worrying is that we are once again putting all hope into tourism. So, as we know 20% of Croatian GDP depends on tourism, it is one of the largest percentages in Europe, and we are re-positioning ourselves as a nation that is fixed on tourism, which deals almost exclusively with attracting new tourism potentials and which is slowly turning into a service nation, although I will repeat here, given all the available data that the government was supposed to present to us earlier, it doesn't seem like it's some kind of large number of digital nomads, so nothing that will lead to an economic boom of the Republic. This issue is also important because it has been announced that it will very much invest in a campaign that promotes the status of digital nomads in Croatia. In this sense, the issue remains open how much resources do we plan to invest in attracting digital nomads and do we have any estimates of whether this investment will really be justified in the Croatian context? Furthermore, if we are really going to regulate the status of digital nomads then of course it is assumed that we should have, and we should have had them already, and some clearer regulations have not yet come out that will more precisely define who digital nomads are, primarily in terms of their income. So, in some ways, Croatia as a country ensures that someone who can end up here on a "prosperity stick" or stuck in our social system. Other countries that regulated the status of digital nomads offered, for example, Dubai $5,000 per month of receiving digital nomads' requests, Estonia 3,504 euros, Georgia 2,000 dollars. Croatia? We have no idea. Otherwise, while noting that Croatia is not currently advertised in the community of digital nomads as a country that is tempting to them, it is rather an emphasis on Dubai precisely because of what I have highlighted, because of the wider acceptability of their tax system. So what is the primary idea of regulating the status of digital nomads is to attract as many situationed persons as possible to contribute directly to our budget and to the revenues of local entrepreneurs. I like this innovative and brave approach where we've got rid of digital nomads because we're hoping that they'll spend, that few that's coming up for now, and we're going to spend on that campaign that might attract a few more. But it would be nice for the Republic of Croatia to think in a similar way about its own citizens and to tax them out, and then see how they can invest in the domestic economy by the same principle, which will also fill the state budget. So, we cut labour tax, reduce parafiscal burdens for entrepreneurs, treat our citizens as digital nomads, and we will have a really better budget, instead of such micro or sexy solutions as we offer within this law because this law regulates foreigners on temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia who do not have to have compulsory health insurance. In this sense, I will remind him that he is equating him with persons who are high school education or who are studying in such a way as to regulate health insurance, which in some way shows how we treat a digital nomad and raises a serious question of who is a digital nomad, is that an eternal child at the level of a high school student or is it someone who is a serious worker and who should in this sense submit to the laws of the Republic of Croatia as well as everyone else? Besides, what is he going to verify his status for? So far, there's still no interest in digital nomads except in some kind of attempt at definition that we ourselves are offering. So the digital nomad shows an individualistic approach that is very much present in modern society and that needs to be discussed wider, where the state increasingly replaces the personal responsibility of the individual who is expected to care for everyone without anyone and also for his own health. If we are to accept digital nomads, let us consider facilitating the position of Croatian citizens in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36909	Thank you very much. You have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you can go to the scene, it's not a replica. Here you go, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36910	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Selak Rasudić, has been injured by an article. 238. The Rules of Procedure, at least 10 times, have been false, and I have therefore reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, on how it is necessary to reduce the income tax rate in Croatia, or less taxing the work. I would like to warn her that Croatia is among the lowest in Europe, among the lowest Mrs. Selak Rasdic, we can do this part about VAT rates, where we are among the highest, but when it comes to labour taxation, we are in Europe among the lowest. You can check that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36911	I thank you, colleague Bačić, of course this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and that you get a warning, this was a replica, it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, now it's up to the respected colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36912	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. We're talking about digital nomads, first of all, to clarify a little bit what digital nomads are for citizens who are following this session to know what we're talking about. The first thing is nomad at all? Nomad is a man who deals with primitive agriculture, more specifically livestock that goes after his cattle, so after his herd, he seeks a new better pasture and then a digital nomad would be a man who deals with communication technologies, who is looking for better conditions for his work. Only the existence of digital nomads is ridiculous and absurd because if someone can use digital communications to work with any point in the world, why should they move somewhere? So he can work from New York, I don't know, from Sydney, from Beijing, just like he can from Sibenik or Zagreb. Then why would we make it easier for him to come here and be careful what they make it easier for me? For example. That digital nomad that comes out of I don't know, here it is, from Florida, from America, there's an x-ray, if you have good insurance, 1000 dollars and we're gonna let him in here to secure himself with a couple hundred kunas and make that X-ray for cheap or free, it's gonna pay off coming here, but who's gonna carry that burden? It's the Croatian state again. On the other hand, we have waiting lines in Croatian hospitals a mile away. We have thousands and thousands of Croatian citizens waiting for therapy and waiting for reviews, waiting for diagnostics, and we here will allow everyone from around the world to be declared digital nomads and to come here to work, cheaply secure and do whatever they want. That's what it looks like to me. For those of you who don't know, here's the definition of what it says, it says what a digital nomad is. The digital nomad is a third-country national who is employed and performs business through communication technology for a company or its own company which is not registered in the Republic of Croatia and does not perform business or provide services to employers in the area of the Republic of Croatia. So, he must not have anything to do with the Croatian economy, absolutely nothing, and then we will allow him to be provided cheaply and to actually be treated here. Now, another question, given that in this agreement here, this is the Marrakech Agreement, it has nothing to do with migration, this none, this document, however, mentions the health insurance of foreigners in the 45th place in the Marrakek Agreement. So I'm curious, there's a migrant who crossed Plješivica and came here to Zagreb and has a gaget in his hand, has this cell phone, does he have a digital nomad? Can he declare himself a digital nomad? At what point does he declare himself a digital nomad or what institute do we even estimate when someone is a digital nomad? A-ka is a migrant, for example. who escaped from Syria or I don't know Bangladesh and came to Croatia in an illegal manner? Do you need a laptop, do you just have a cell phone, do you need three laptops, which are the gadgets you have to have, and how will you possibly assess that man's doing some work? Today, we can see that anyone who comes to Croatia is declared a digital nomad because this is very wide. You tell me, dear Proposer, do you know a man who is not used by communication technologies? I don't know anyone. So everyone uses communication technologies. So they're all digital nomads and everyone who works in the private sector, in the real sector, he works for a company, and that's a digital nomad. If he's not in his place of residence, where his company is registered. And finally another thing that's very current. This morning when I traveled from my Sibenik to Zagreb, I listen on the radio, I do not know how many billions more there are, tens of billions of dollars, excuse me, kunas that are due to Croatian hospitals with major drugs, will this contribute to making this debt smaller or will it be bigger because we will allow someone to receive almost free treatment in Croatia under unclear criteria? I think it will be, that we can only additionally burden the Croatian health system. Let's think about this, all by the criteria of who this digital nomad is because this is definitely unclear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36913	Let's move on, now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Maja Grba Bujevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36914	Mr. President-in-Office, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Mandatory health insurance and health care of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, which is currently valid and in force. Subject law contains, inter alia, provisions relating to the 1st compulsory health insurance of foreigners with an approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, foreigners who have an approved temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia, health protection of non-mandatory foreigners and provisions providing for the health care of foreigners in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the provisions of the applicable law on compulsory health insurance, it is mandatory to provide parties with a permanent status in our country, nationals of the EEA Member State and of the Swiss Confederation who have an approved temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia provided that they are not compulsory health insurance in one of the Member States and nationals of that State other than the EEA Member State, as well as the Swiss Confederation on temporary stay. The rights and obligations of compulsory health insurance on the principles of reciprocity, solidarity and equality as for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia shall be guaranteed to the parties mentioned above. In accordance with the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance and Health Protection of Foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, any foreigner who is not subject to compulsory health insurance or who is not provided with health care in accordance with EU regulations shall be provided with urgent medical assistance including emergency transport to an appropriate medical institution, and medical care during transport which is necessary to eliminate the immediate danger to life and health according to the standard of health protection rights from compulsory health insurance, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the Act on Foreigners, which entered into force on 1 January 2021, and in relation to which amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act are proposed, the new two concepts are actually being introduced. The first is the "foreigner on a permanent stay or long stay in the Republic of Croatia" and the second "to a third-country national" that is so called. digital nomad. By law itself, the legislative proposal shows the primary need for conceptual compliance with the Foreign Law, in particular in part of the above new concepts. The digital nomad as a concept in the Foreign Law is defined as a third country national who is employed or does business by means of a communication technology for a company or own company that is not registered in the Republic of Croatia and does not perform business or provide services to employers in the area of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the concept introduced into the Foreign Law, the digital nomad, the same concept exists in its context for a long time in the world. The coronavirus pandemic itself has shown us that thanks to technology, most of the jobs can be done in both the office and anywhere else, with enough to have a laptop, a mobile device or an Internet connection. Some individuals have been taking advantage of this technology for years, and instead of working in an office in New York, they work anywhere in the world that defines them as digital nomads. So you have to have a registered company out there, you have to do that kind of work and you can live on like Hvar Island. It is not surprising, therefore, that many decide to move their office to a safe and pleasant environment such as the Republic of Croatia. According to one of our Croatian digital nomads Tomislav Pancirov, I quote: Some destinations in Croatia are ranked among top 30 global places for digital nomads according to the nomad list which ranks the destination for remote work on the basis of factors such as cost of life, speed of the Internet, safety and climate. This also puts us and global perception into desirable destinations for digital nomads. With previous amendments to the Foreign Law, Croatia has, as previously stated, introduced the term "digital nomads" and caught a step with the global trend of regulation of digital nomad status. This introduces a regulation that, that temporary stay can be granted to the digital nomad for up to a year, which will greatly contribute to the greater response and fluctuation of digital nomads in the area of the Republic of Croatia, which should certainly be of interest to us. Among other things, tax exemption for the reception of natural persons accomplished in the pursuit of non-permanent work or activity for an employer not regulated in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the acquired status of the digital nomad, means that status is acquired in accordance with the law, not that you declare yourself “then I have come as a digital nomad”. This way of regulating their stay in Croatia, allowing them to stay for up to a year with preferential tax treatment, will significantly allow better access to the Republic of Croatia's digital nomads because they are provided with legal requirements. The preliminary estimates of a prominent one institute say that expectations regarding these positive changes are that up to 50,000 digital nomads a year would provide additional spending of 500 million kuna that would be significant for the Croatian economy. Let's not just write off 500 million kunas. So these are the people who then live here, have high incomes and, of course, spend at our place, buy all the groceries and work here. Another idea I've heard here, so these people aren't free from paying for health services. So they are defined under the same conditions as for Croatian citizens, because they live here. Proposed amendments to the law will allow the exercise of the right to health protection by a digital nomad, a third-country national who is employed and does not carry out tasks through communication technology. Following this legislative proposal, it is proposed to regulate the exercise of the right to health care, the right to health care by digital nomads, as well as to harmonise the concepts in accordance with the adopted Foreigning Law in relation to the concept, foreigner in permanent residence or long-term residence in the Republic of Croatia. In view of the proposed amendments, it is important to mention that there were no comments in the public debate, so zero. And it is also important to mention that there was also no objection on the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy that spoke of anything that would potentially cause doubts. The HDZ Club will support these legislative changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36915	Now, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, a respected representative, Marijana Puljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36916	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of this law harmonizes the concepts with the Foreign Law and, as we have heard, will enable the exercise of the right to health protection with digital nomads, by definition of third-country nationals who are employed or engaged in remote business for a company or own company which is not registered in the Republic of Croatia and which does not perform business or provide services to employers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, who are granted temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia, so it is by definition. What are digital nomads? In addition to this definition to tell a little bit, so mostly experts, it's mostly IT experts, experts from some creative industries that travel around the world and work remotely. So I can work from Croatia, Estonia, China or wherever, and their companies are elsewhere in the world. Since now we're living in these pandemic conditions, it's kind of a pandemic and it has improved this digital age when all people are working more and more remotely. Estonia is the first European country to allow digital nomads, Croatia has done so since this year on the 1st of January this year we introduced this possibility to us. Therefore, Croatia becomes a place where such people who are usually high in wages will be able to work and live, work at a distance, and here spend their income, and will contribute indirectly to the budget of the Republic of Croatia and local entrepreneurs. So this law only further defines how health care is used. I agree with those of you who said we're from Estonia, so this may be some sort of fashionable thing, but here's at least that we're in something first or here's at least another in Europe or the world. From Estonia we could also copy other good practices, so Estonia would say the world's first to digitise the state and local administration, so Estonia is a country of a million people, it's home to five so-called. Unique, it means five Startups worth more than a billion dollars. We're here 4 million or now we're going to see it by the list this year and less, we're on our way here to get one company that's worth more than a billion dollars. 20 years ago, Croatia had a GDP greater than Estonia, today Estonia has 50% higher than Croatia. So, in 2001, if we compare Croatia-Estonia in Croatia $5,300, Estonia $4,500, 2020 in Croatia in 15,200 in Estonia 23,000, so here we go in one thing to copy Estonia continue to do so. Another information, therefore, according to the regulation on how to calculate and the amount of funds to support third-country nationals who came into force in mid-February, since the digital nomad that wants to stay in Croatia must prove that there is at least two-and-a-half average monthly net salary paid for last year. It means at this point that it must have a minimum of about 16,000 kuna per month, so that's the one condition someone I think has mentioned before. According to estimates in the world, there are currently about 5 million people working as digital nomads, and given these conditions of the pandemic and what more people are doing on this principle and the development of technology that has actually accelerated this trend, a digital nomad is being considered somewhere around 17 to 20 million people. Some believe in Croatia that their arrival in Croatia is beneficial for the economy, here they would spend their money to benefit the wider community, on the other hand some critics believe that their arrival and rise in some prices of rents, apartments, etc. But I personally believe that attracting digital nomads is an opportunity, not a threat. So there will be no figures that will now save the economy in such a proportion, but a good certain impact will have an impact on branding countries and on the message to those people that Croatia is a good country for life. What is the problem in Croatia is that we cannot cross that line, so other than the sea and the sun we offer to foreigners and tourists and to all those we want.... /. attract, so it is not good to work in Croatia. The tax burden is so much so that none of the foreigners come to mind here to open a company and a company. That's the problem, and that's what we should be working on. Reduce burdens on entrepreneurs, reduce parafiscal burdens, make it attractive to foreigners not only as a tourist destination but also as an entrepreneurial destination. So, not only is it pleasant here because of the sun and the sea, and I don't know other benefits, but it's really attractive for foreigners and opening up companies and paying taxes in Croatia. So on behalf of the club, we'll support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36917	As the fifth, she will be the SDP advocates' club and respected counterpart Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36918	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues, the proposed legislative proposal in question is a conceptual alignment with the Foreign Law that we adopted last year especially in part of the new concept, a foreigner at a permanent residence or a long-term residence in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, this proposed amendments to the law further regulates the area of compulsory health insurance and the health care of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia and addresses the issue of the health protection of foreigners, in particular third country nationals, digital nomads. The adoption of this law will allow for the right to health care by means of a digital nomad, so we have already heard from a third-country national, who is employed and works through communication technology. It must have a company for which it operates or own company which is not registered in the Republic of Croatia and which does not carry out operations or provides services to employers in the field of our country, which is approved for temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, applying to compulsory health insurance is not required to submit a third-country national staying with us for the purpose of staying in the digital nomad. Therefore, he is obliged to bear the costs of using healthcare in a healthcare institution or in a private health worker or other healthcare provider in the Republic of Croatia. So he chooses where he will seek a favor depending on the clinical condition and knowledge of our health system. If we remember the current legal provisions of 2013 and 2018 to which these amendments apply now, it is defined who must submit mandatory health insurance and who does not have to. So here is a clear memory meaning that foreigners with an approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, nationals of a Member State of the European Economic Area and of the Swiss Confederation who have an approved temporary stay with us provided that they are not necessarily health insurance in one of the Member States and nationals of a country that is not a member of the European Economic Area and of the Swiss Confederation if the EU rules are not otherwise defined. The rights and obligations of compulsory health insurance rest as for all of us on the principles of reciprocity, solidarity and equality. Those who are not obliged to apply for compulsory health insurance are parties to a temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia who are staying for secondary education and study purposes. Such are required to bear the costs of using health care on their own. And for a foreign child on temporary stay, for a foreigner who turned 18, he is a regular high-school insurance student in the Republic of Croatia who is paid by a parent, guardian or person whose child is invited to the Republic of Croatia. The state pays for those who have a solution to the welfare center. For a foreigner child who is a victim of human trafficking, abandoned, victim of organised crime without custody, no parental protection and no escort. Application for compulsory health insurance of a foreigner whose temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia is granted for the purpose of secondary education, study, specialisation or scientific research, who are scholarships to the authorities of the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia or the bodies of the units of local or regional (regional) self-government, shall be submitted by the grantor and shall be subject to the payment of contributions for compulsory health insurance, if the contract otherwise is not arranged. Application for compulsory health insurance is not mandatory for parties to a temporary stay with us for study purposes if they come for the purpose of the youth mobility programme, exchange of students, inter-universal agreements, etc., and then implements the body responsible for education and science activities again if health insurance is not covered by other programmes. Then, applying to compulsory health insurance is not mandatory to submit to the citizens of the EU Member State who have been granted a temporary stay with us, who possess evidence of comprehensive private health insurance. When we recently discussed the Foreign Law, the proposaler's representative pointed out that the Institute of Digital Nomads will not use a large number of persons, but by facilitating the conditions for them, it goes in the direction of promotion of Croatia, but also the achievement of additional revenues. When you ask existing or potential digital nomads or foreigners in Croatia which are the benefits of our country, they say it is EU membership, security, good Internet, good climate and favourable private health care. And given the miserable prices HZZO determines state health care institutions, what would they say then that there's a ruckus meaning in non-private health institutions where these figures are cheaper. According to the current rules of law of 2013 and 2018, health protection standards for the categories of foreigners have been defined, from emergency medical aid, the necessary treatment, or appropriate healthcare and other assistance, especially for vulnerable groups. For healthcare professionals in our country, especially in health institutions that are the founder of the Republic of Croatia or local unit, regional self-government has always been a priority for us to provide health care, not first to ask if you have money to pay for the service or whether you have health insurance. It is also important for us as medics to identify whether it is an emergency or not. I would like to remind you that under urgent medical care within the meaning of this law, the provision of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures necessary to eliminate the immediate danger to life and health is meant. Of course, reception workers are obliged to seek valid personal documents or evidence of the way in which healthcare is achieved which is easier when it is not an emergency when there is a more peaceful atmosphere, especially when you are in a private health care facility where users who pay themselves usually do not even go if they are an emergency. So, new times, new rules, should be considered of course and funding, but we hope that our Croatian health care especially for our residents will always be the first concern for patients, and the state is responsible for not doing business with the loss. It is an interesting provision from previous laws that I have mentioned continuing these additions. Therefore, health institutions whose founder is a local and regional (regional) unit of self-government are required in the case of a non-emergency medical condition to require a foreigner to make a previous payment of the cash amount at the level of the expected costs of the requested health service. The healthcare institution or healthcare professional of private practice or other healthcare provider whose stranger refuses to pay in advance a cash amount or refuses to offer another payment guarantee may refuse to provide medical services. Now, if the healthcare provider does not charge the costs of treatment or providing health care services, then that bill and medical documentation shall be forwarded to the Ministry of Health for the purpose of suffering. This goes then from the state budget and the state has to pay within 60 days, and if, in the meantime, the user still pays the bill in some way, then the one who charged it from the state must pay back the money. But we hope that it will not come to this and that all will actually follow the legal rules. One more thing was interesting to me when I read these laws from 2013 and 2018, says that the healthcare institution or healthcare professional or other healthcare provider who has a contract with the institution on the implementation of health care from compulsory health insurance is obliged to comply with the waiting list of persons from compulsory health insurance in a way that does not affect the order of implementation of contracted healthcare with the institution. It was also in the sense of that, that replica I asked the secretary of state, so you have those who pay for themselves, okay, he's going to choose where he's going to look for his health service, but the one who's a stranger so he has compulsory health insurance and comes in and tells him you hear the waiting list is your 6 months in the hospital question where he's going to look for his health care service. In any case, we believe that this is all expensive progress for providing health care and for foreigners so that the SDP Club will support this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36919	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36920	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, and I don't think there's a need here for the third time, for the fourth time to repeat the system of compulsory health insurance in the Republic, when someone is obliged to secure themselves, etc., I think it's really a waste of time after a couple of great discussions that have cut down the whole, the whole system. What should be said is that this law is really not the key to the survival of the economy in the Republic of Croatia and is a small procedure. Let's get this straight. So no one has the illusion that it will save something, and especially a small procedure at the time of the pandemic Covidom-19, since most jobs are done in the country and in the world by means of electronic media, so by means of video connections, through everything that stands for us today, thank God at our disposal otherwise life would seem almost impossible, or there would be a return to the past. In my opinion, this is a law that has the character of sacred leadership, so it won't help much, but it won't help, because it defines one exception, one exception to insurance, one exception to compulsory insurance, and that's so-called insurance. digital nomad. Now, how many such people will be forecasts are very ungrateful, very, very ungrateful. We all think of people in the industry, in the information industry, but either our attention or our focus here is just the question of whether that's the case. In the IT industry, they mostly work from their own house and exchange technologies and send solutions to make it difficult for these digital nomads to be concentrated. Maybe more where there are so-called. digital technologies that must be tested on site. Perhaps Mr. Rimac will have more needs for these people than he will have some informative, informative companies in the upward path. It should be recalled that in Zagreb, a campus that should have 800 people is expected to open soon, and this is one information firm from my surroundings, so the Infobip from Vodnjan should open that campus. So surely some small number of people will come here either for training or for exchange of experiences, etc. So here's my contribution to this discussion that we don't have a lot of expectations because those who have already, who offered challenging 10 years ago, have already taken advantage of it and time has gone by irrevocably, so this is not the time when Estonia has declared itself a digital nomad. This is very, very late. What I'm sure is, colleague Maria was here discussing whether it would increase or reduce health debts. They will be reduced safely because that man will have to pay for everything alone unless there is an emergency where he does not wonder whether anyone is insured or not but first provides a health care service. Talking about the potential of around 10,000 digital nomads is a little excessive and their consumption. How much, as far as I have a picture in my head of these people, they're very secretive, they can work 20 hours closed with chips and let this fast food, so no matter what they have money, they're not big, they don't throw away, and you don't see them in restaurants to honor, honor society, and to have some big consumption. I haven't seen them, and I live in the tourist hall of the Republic of Croatia. So I didn't notice, and I'm not even among those who are always in the house. So it's important to say to reduce expectations, to say that this is okay, it's okay we have an exception, we've defined something that's undefined. The HSS and HSU club as well as the board will support this and we have no dilemmas, but we do not need to create illusions about some epochal proportions of this law. What is certainly in the limbo is certain that a large number of young people are thinking about whether they might have an alternative to perhaps private compulsory health insurance. Especially when they hear about the problems of our health care system every day. Is there an alternative or is it for centuries of amen and is carved into stone that every 10 years further and again and much shorter than those 10 years we will also solve debts with major drugs and that we have a very bad health system and a great departure of personnel and therefore everything our health system is burdened with. Surely, then, this exception will also encourage our younger citizens to think further about whether there is an alternative. It's not forbidden to think like that, you know. It's not forbidden. In addition, we already have public insurance and private insurance, in addition to health insurance, which is a small segment and covers a small segment of the costs of the overall health system, not insignificant. And there's over two billion kunas a year. 2 billion kuna in additional health insurance to a private and public insurance company is not a small amount of money. It's not small money, it's about 7% of the total health budget of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to think about what would happen if they had an alternative. Would you or would you conflict those two alternatives to see what is more effective and correct. What we have today is ineffective, generating problems, we're being re-tracted, we've got tremendously large costs and terrible debt in the health system. We will, without regard to the criticisms in the health system, consider this law small but fine by step and, as I have already said, the Club of HSS and HSS will support this law and vote for amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36921	Thank you very much. We will now go to individual debates and will first speak the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36922	My colleagues and colleagues opened Pandora's box. So, okay, you've heard of digital nomadics, someone thought it was super modern and that we might be able to implement something like that in our legislation, is to turn out to be one of the most progressive countries in Europe if not wider. Someone else added to that that's why our domestic economy is going to explode, that we're going to have an ad that we haven't had in these places, and that all the forces of third-country citizens are going to blend into the Republic of Croatia so that under the palm tree on our coast, they're going to drink cocktails furiously, they're going to spend on the most expensive accommodation in Diocletian's palace, and we're all going to rub our hands together. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, you have opened Pandora's box. Why? If you have asked the question of who are digital nomads and tried to regulate their status within the Republic of Croatia then a whole series of other issues regarding meeting with the modern age and regulation of this non-permanent preliminary work in the era of digitisation are being opened. We can't take a term like the concept of a digital nomad now, but in order to have a super tourist season, although I've listed eVisitor's data is not to be expected, at this time of course it's nothing to expect, but otherwise we'll have the effects that we've imagined, but we can't change it, and we can't ignore the situation and the situation of workers in Croatia who are also facing a new time of digitisation and who expect their working, health and other rights to adapt to new weather. If we're going to introduce these changes, if we dare to be one of the pioneers within the EU, let's continue, ladies and gentlemen, you have our full support. Where's the electronic vote, when are we going to go after the democratisation process? Let us imitate Estonia in the fullest sense of that word if we have already begun this way. When are we going to introduce the right to disenfranchise, or the right to disfellowship? When we recognize the fact that now at the time of virtualization, especially at the moment of the pandemic our workers are doing more and more than home because they are nonstop available through technology and do not have the right to disfellowship. Our Law on Labour in Art. 60 defines the concept of working time. When we will finally deal with this Labour Act, and we have announced its changes, so that we can implement the challenges of the modern era. Ladies and gentlemen, we opened Pandora's box. I'm going to say one more time, we can't just do digital nomads, and we can ignore the technologicalization of our reality at all other levels and ignore it most where it should be most important to us, which is in terms of the domicile population. Because are we thinking about how many Croats have become digital nomads? How many Croats leave Croatia to a third world that is more acceptable and accessible to them, where they can work and where they can enjoy the benefits of these eastern areas for money that they could never in Croatia. So when you see that all those who can leave in Croatia to be digital nomads in third countries, then ask a return question for whom you expect them to come here. We can't once again pretend that a beautiful shore is enough. We cannot once again push the only story as sustainable, and it is exclusively touristic. Already 20% of our GDP depends on tourism, and now we're all shaking if there's going to be a season to survive. Something so unsustainable can't condition life in Croatia. This may also be a positive step that recognizes technology, but also shows our confusion in the lack of a broader vision of how we will make our economy sustainable except for another marketing tourist trick. Ladies and gentlemen, we opened Pandora's box. If we want to step forward with time, think about the right to exclude, think about the electronic vote, think about all the other needs of a modern man who will do what is primarily important, which is to keep our citizens here because we only confirm Croatia's trend as a flow country, which we have already done with the Foreign Law, the countries in which people like the station They come and go, but no one stays. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36923	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36924	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleague Rasudic. I think it is commendable to actually open Croatia in this form of digital nomads as such. However, a key starting point, at least it should be, the quality of all those currently living in the country, not all those who will come to Croatia with one such form of law. In this context, what will be the future of all those who create and work in this country, in particular craftsmen and businessmen, and then all workers?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36925	Dear representative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36926	Dear colleague Kujundzic. This is an important issue because the question that is not answered is, if we recognize the flexibility of work and jobs, as something important and decided to make it easier for third-country nationals to come and stay in Croatia, although the question is whether this really makes it easier for them because most of them are staying as tourists in third countries, and no one is touching them just because they expect some benefits from the local economy, so no one comes and doesn't check whether they break the laws because they work there and they're not tourists. If we were able to identify the needs of flexibility and relief at the level of digital nomads, why not do the same for the citizens of Croatia? Why don't we cut taxes, remove parafiscal burdens, and then more will be spent, and then the domestic economy will breathe, just like the arguments here explain the introduction of these legal changes for the purpose of digital nomad status.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36927	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36928	Dear colleagues Selak Rasudiæ, a global economy and a global society are changing as a result of the pandemic, we are turning to more and more digital forms and work and this, the way we do our daily jobs and in this sense one question for you, Estonia may have gone the farthest, why here in HS when we vote on Friday, we can only vote by this electronic means if we are in isolation, not if we are sick because of some other diseases and whether finally both HS and Croatian society will go through e-voting which Estonia has already applied and why the ruling does not go in this direction?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36929	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36930	Thank you. We really live in the theater of absurdity. And I was recently hospitalized before the discussion of the Croatian Strategy and after presenting evidence that I could not stay in the Assembly, I asked to get involved in the debate online because I cared about such an important topic, of course that they refused me, although all the preconditions were there and although the same might happen if you were in self-insulation, not even disease. Instead of rewarding the will to work, she makes it impossible. Those questions really need to be answered. And as for the electronic vote, Minister Malenica said, the countries that tried to introduce this estimated that the risks were greater than the benefits that could come from these elections. Of course, we're thinking about it, but I think it's a question for the future, when the pre-conditions come to pass. So, which are the preconditions, now be careful, citizens' confidence in the system, its availability to all voters, the security of the system, etc. Yes, yes, citizens' trust in the system, we wait for that prerequisite to be acquired, with this authority, never.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36931	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36932	Dear MPs, it is quite absurd that you have now quoted the minister as saying that informing is the future and that in the future we will be able to use information technologies because information is everywhere around us, IT is everywhere around us. But to get back to the law. You have concentrated here in fact, most of your speakers have concentrated on digital nomads, but let's not forget that in Croatia and other countries people who are using digital platforms are not related to IT industry. In particular, there you open up a very large area in the field of coworking and coleading centers. Croatia is devoid of such centres, it is not expensive, it has beautiful landscapes, there are very nice places where you can live and work normally, where there is silence, peace, where you can create an environment for those people who want to work in a different environment compared to their country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36933	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36934	When we talk about digital nomads, there is a big question besides that landscape that we are not worthy of and obviously the only thing we can sell if not devast, the big question is whether or not we have such preconditions that would keep these people and allow them to work in Croatia, so other than the available, fast internet, they are also coworking cooperatives, let's try translation, spaces. They are very few in Croatia, recently a large space has opened up in Sibenik, several people are staying there but this has not yet become a practice for us. And it is known that precisely digital nomads in such places where they meet other people and consider acceptable working environments. Indeed, in order to introduce these new concepts, it is not enough to make several legal changes, but to ensure that infrastructure is widely accessible that suits such a type of worker so that they can stay in Croatia at all temporarily.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36935	And the last replica of the respected representative of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36936	Dear colleague Selak Rasdic, do you think these measures will help with the digital nomads? Please, say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36937	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36938	In order to answer that question, we need to know what is happening now in practice, how digital nomads function. They go to the land of eternal sun, to the countries of the Far East and come there as tourists, with tourist visas and no one touches them, stays in the country, enjoy the advantages of the domestic economy, most often go to those countries where living standards are cheap. So any form of regulation of their status is not important to them or not appropriate to them because for them the only prerequisite for coming is to avoid all-powerful red tape. I'm not sure it'll make it easier for them because one of the important criteria is what the tax system is like in that country because it can happen that they want to stay or get stuck and apply rules that apply to other citizens. Thus, it is important to know that neither Estonia nor Spain are tax havens, far from that and that this is an important criterion unlike Dubai, which is promoted as a country suitable for nomads, precisely because of its tax system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36939	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Davor Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36940	Thank you very much, dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary of State, welcome to all, colleagues and colleagues. As we have heard in this very high-quality debate, of course, we work in one, we are discussing a law that is quite ok and there is absolutely nothing controversial about it, but, sometimes through certain emphasis in this debate, it's kind of pulling about as if we're discussing a Croatian space program. So, we didn't exactly determine what digital nomad is, where it comes from, except that it comes from a third country, how it will exercise its rights, whether it will, of course at all, have the right to do so, so we decided that it will, will pay something, there are, of course, a few questions that the law would have to do more precisely in case of a possible health care service according to a digital nomad from a third country, as we do this charge, whether it will simply receive that health care service, go to the bill and maybe not pay, and then we'll have some problems to charge the health system, and that's where the law or this legal proposal might be a little more precise. As for our imagining of a digital nomad, it seems to me like a gentleman in swimsuits or I don't know, or a lady in a costume sitting next to a cocktail on the beach, not exactly like that. The respected representative Pavić mentioned and, of course, another possibility and these are call centres, so it is not a digital nomad of a person who works exclusively through some IT services, it can be called centres, Croatia is well placed here, located in the EU, at us and not using certain costs when talking about traffic, and perhaps it should build up the legislation a little more precisely. How are we going to attract him besides the laws? It's a very difficult fact at the speed of the Internet. We all know very well that possibly in Croatian urban areas we can count on secure Internet speeds of at least 100 MB/s, unfortunately in other parts of Croatia, the network is not so developed and I think it will be difficult to offer some quality service or better quality conditions for the operation of digital nomads, obviously we will have to wait for the benefits of 5G technology, at least those through the speed of Internet traffic. Anyway, we're a little late for Estonia, but we're not technologically ready to offer ideal conditions for digital work nomads yet because we simply can't provide them with everything they need, at least technologically speaking. And what I still wanted to remind all of you once again. I also wanted to make some of these proposals as proposals for amending the law in the second reading, but we're here in the emergency procedure, and I'd like to remind you once again what's really urgent here. Once again, I remind you, however, of the abuse of constitutional authority prescribed only an exception. For what reason do we talk about this, talk about it, and pass the law in an emergency procedure? It is not quite necessary to intervene urgently to have buses and trains of digital nomads frozen, tortured and waiting for us to pass these amendments to the law, so that they can pile up in Croatia because without it they will not be anywhere near. The fact is that such laws as they are, and they are not important and they are not crucial, and we need to bring them in as soon as possible and devote ourselves to some very, very, very important topics. What exactly are we going to have from this urgent amendment to the law, so I suggest that time evaluates. Either way, let it be this law, we'll support it, it's a little pebble on the way forward, but I'm going to harden it one more time, we're calling for a digital nomad, and we don't know how to attract an analog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36941	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Stipe Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36942	A fellow Dretar, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36943	And I'm sorry, the first respected representative is Selak Rasdic. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36944	Thank you. Comrade Dretar, in the last assembly of nearly 50% of the law was passed by emergency procedure, so far we're somewhere at 35%. I agree with you that this is a major problem that we have already been warned about and which is one of the basic problems of this legislative body that we feel is that everything is urgent, that we cannot set a priority or have any strategic plan, even in such situations where something that is not currently important for the Republic of Croatia on the agenda. In that sense, I'd like to ask you, isn't it logical that laws are passed when recognized for a need? Let's say that if the e-Visitor system shows that 4,000 foreigners are currently staying in Croatia, and it is the front of the guests from BiH, Germany and Slovenia, and in 4th place are citizens of the United States, it is already, already, some 4,000, these have no idea, 100th, for whom, for whom, for whom do we aim, and who can we attract? The numbers say the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36945	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36946	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36947	Excuse me. Thank you for asking, dear colleague. Yeah, well, maybe we just want to meet the United States for quality relations now after Mr. Biden's presidential election and inauguration, but now they're joking aside. Yes, the fact is, and we keep saying it and we can say it like that all the time, "we honk" as rules are used and the abuse of constitutional powers prescribed as an exception to the adoption of laws. Unfortunately, we can only notice it, and who can change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36948	The next replica of the respected representative, Stipe Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36949	Dear fellow Dretar, I'd ask you if you knew, but I know you know everything, how long he lives and works, so on. digital nomads in the Republic of Croatia, in the area of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36950	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36951	My fellow Mlinarić, thank you very much. Unfortunately, I don't have that information, and I asked the respected Mr. Plazonic, and he doesn't, of course, referred me to the MUP. I'm going to ask this information with a parliamentary question, although of course it's not of crucial importance to us. The fact is that these people have the right to a health care service, if they need it, of course we know and the health itself is first, it will be given to them, as they will be charged once again, it is not here that this law is precise, we do not have the right instrument, nor do we have regulated payment methods or possible forced charges in case the digital nomad of a third country decides to go home with an unpaid bill. We'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36952	The next replicas of Honorable counsel Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Dratar, I got the impression that you're not too happy that the laws are changing quickly. Usually, in Croatia, citizens are unhappy because they seem to be changing laws too slowly sometimes, so they fail to achieve everything that they could do faster. The fact that there has been a change in the Foreign Law, that tax laws have been amended, that we are now discussing the amendment of the Health Insurance Act in order to meet with digital nomads that have already been proven to be entrenched by every destination where they come and I think that in this covid crisis it is a very important instrument that can help us, including our tourism, but also other segments of the economy. I'm curious to know how you're estimating that if we really came in here, we'd say open hearts and prepare everything, in what way will this trend of digital nomads continue to take place because as far as I've heard Mr. Jan de Jong run this initiative, he has a lot of optimistic prognosis?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36954	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36955	Thank you very much. So let me point out once again, I'm not against the urgency of passing this law, I'm just against the fact that it's being brought by an emergency procedure, there's a slight difference. So, I have nothing against digital nomads from third countries and from the EU or whatever the legislative proposal defines them, just, just 100 times here, when I've talked about some let's say it so little less important parliamentary debates let's speed it up and agree absolutely that we have much, much more important issues in this country that require a longer, concrete not only parliamentary debate but also a change of legal procedures. As for the plan or my expectation of the development of digital nomads, we are at a time when we can freely say as a civilization, change ways, communicate, change the way we do jobs. I believe and firmly believe that 5G technology, one of its benefits, will be one mass acceleration and, of course, easier to do work for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36956	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36957	Here's a thank you. Dear fellow, here we agree that this is one small step in attracting digital nomads, and we also think together that it will not remain to save the economy, but here it will help these people to feel more comfortable here, to be more. This comment on Coworking spaces can testify, they have been in Split for several years. I know, this trend I know about two companies that open up in the Omis area as some kind of agencies that will help digital nomads stay on and along our coast, etc. So this is one step, some kind of legal basis, and the market will continue to work on opening and coworking space and some of the other elements of the economy that will help this small sector. Here's just my comment on that side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36958	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36959	Dear colleague Puljak, I agree completely. So again here we meet with one fact about which we here in the Croatian Parliament are bringing a legal framework, and in fact a digital nomad or digital nomad will attract a positive business environment in these areas and, in fact, our comparative advantages to another country. So once again, let's not call too much state interventionism in this area, let the market do its job, but once again I will stress, the market cannot exist, nor can it do its job without an adequate legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36960	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Hrvojo Simic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36961	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's the last few years if we shut down 2020. where a large pandemic started with coronaryvirus in Croatia we note a significant increase in the interest of foreigners to arrive, live and work in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, with this increased interest, we also record further loss or further negative immigration trends in our population. Also, what was recorded through data at the State Statistics Office is a major increase in requested work permits for the work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, so more than 50,000 such requirements were registered in 2019, and this trend was continued in early 2020. where more than 70,000 work permits were requested. Unfortunately, the pandemic has changed a lot with the coronary virus, and we'll see what the State Statistics Institute will record when that pandemic stops. Given this significant number of foreigners and this significant interest in staying and working in the Republic of Croatia, we are obliged, of course, to adapt and bring our legislation in line with these changes. The law on foreigners entered into force on 1 January 2021 and regulated the stay of foreigners under, on the grounds that a foreigner is a person who is a national of one of the EEA States or of the Swiss Confederation, and is also a third country national as a person who does not have citizenship, citizenship of the EEA Member States or of the Swiss Confederation, has the nationality of a third country or a person without citizenship. The Foreign Law also regulated the possibility of a third-country national staying on the territory of the Republic of Croatia as a short stay for up to 90 days as a stay treated for a temporary period of up to one year and two unlimited categories, which are a long-term residence and permanent stay. The topic we are talking about today is a temporary stay for the purpose of staying digital nomads, also regulated by this law, and the Republic of Croatia has thus become involved in a global trend as we have heard very recently and absolutely in the debate today. The entry into force of this Act on Foreigners with digital nomads will allow temporary stay for a year. It will, of course, be made possible after that deadline and requested, it will also be possible to request an extension of the further temporary stay. The primary idea, as we know, and what was also said when the Foreign Law was adopted, related to digital nomads, was to attract as many people as expected to contribute directly to their consumption and to fill the Croatian budget, of course to contribute to local communities, depending on the place of residence, contribute and develop local entrepreneurs, local OPGs and in any other positive way to work for, to a more quality life in the Republic. It is also very important to mention that, in addition to the adaptation of the Foreign Law, certain adjustments were made to the Income Tax Act also entered into force 1.1.2021 where it was also defined that foreigners staying in the Republic of Croatia would not pay income tax based on acquired digital nomad status. It is also worth mentioning that recently there is also an online form available on the MUP site of the Republic of Croatia for issuing visas to interested digital nomads. According to the latest amendments and amendments to the laws of application to compulsory health insurance, a foreigner who stays in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of staying in a digital nomad shall not be obliged to submit to the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of staying in a digital nomad, and shall be obliged to bear the costs of using a health care service either in the case of a contracted healthcare professional or an institution, either with a private healthcare provider. New legislative changes regulate this new category directly and without additional costs per HZZ and budget of the Republic of Croatia. This law is passed by emergency procedure. It was made up by the Ministry of Health and HZZO. Thank you very much. And during the month after the e-consultation, there was no objection. Committee on Health and Social Policy He adopted unanimously [[Intruder: Thank you]] This proposal. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36962	We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36963	Dear fellow, whether or not to regulate how much must be the minimum monthly receipts of the digital nomad that plans to stay in Croatia, such as some other countries, e.g. Estonia, which we obviously look up to or Dubai, and how much this level of reception should be, which is not an irrelevant issue for Croatia because this person must be able to self-sustain if he wants to stay here without falling on the burden of the system. Whether any other laws will be amended to regulate the status of the digital nomad or whether we can finally hear some broader plan for introducing digital nomads into the legislative framework, and obviously the Republic of Croatia and you mentioned that the form is available. Do you have any information on how many clicks there have been on that form or anything like that, I doubt there's any application at this point, at least we know of any transparent interest in this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36964	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36965	Thank you very much. Well, distinguished MPs, preparing for today's debate, of course, and looking at the data and on these laws that we've passed, of course, it's hard for me to answer your questions precisely, but I can only say that we've been very active and in time responding to even interested digital nomads who see news throughout the EU that I don't say and beyond, and I think we've made these moves possible for those who are interested, and I believe that we will adapt to these problems, that we will adapt and respond to the current experience and others, of course, to our own experiences. Regarding your question with an online form, of course I also asked for data on the total number today mentioning the total number of digital nomads currently in Croatia, I did not find it except that several of the first interested digital nomads appeared and that the first digital nomad in Croatia was officially registered in February.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36966	Thank you very much. The following is the replica of the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36967	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you are the director of the health care facility. What instructions have you now given beyond the pandemic to your employees at the reception of the polyclinics where usually there are no emergency situations when a foreigner from one side who has compulsory health insurance comes to them, and on the other hand someone who pays himself? I'm asking that considering the big waiting lists. Then how do your employees behave? So someone who pays alone probably wants a favor as soon as possible, and on the other hand, they'll skip whoever has mandatory health insurance is our citizen, and then they have to wait. How do you do?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36968	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36969	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, as we do in this case as well as all other cases and foreign insurance companies, private insurance companies, means waiting lists are absolutely respected with us. Of course, it is legal to adopt a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2001 where we are obliged to respect cross-border healthcare and regulate all in accordance with the law on insurance, health insurance and health protection of foreigners. Of course, the waiting list is transparent with us and that any stranger who comes as well as a digital nomad in the future will have the opportunity to respect the rules and waiting lists in our institution as well as others. Of course, he will be given information that healthcare is also available in private polyclinics where he can achieve his health care otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36970	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Simići and CNN and Lonely Planet have published great news these days that Croatia is a desirable destination for digital nomads, thus providing us with a huge free media space and a huge global reach, so we are now seeing great benefits from these activities that we have launched. But by analysing a small situation related to digital nomads, the assessment of those who know this area better than we do is that they could spend more than 10,000 kuna per month on life in Croatia, which is quite realistic given their receipts. To estimate that it could come to Croatia about 50,000 digital nomads, there are so many of them in Bali, and you will agree with me that the Adriatic is a wonderful destination and that it can deal with all of the world's tourist destinations. This would actually mean an injection of about 500 million kuna per month into the Croatian economy. So can you agree that these are actually good indicators and that it is good that in time we started preparing activities for the arrival of digital nomads in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36972	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36973	Dear colleagues, I thank you for your extensive data and your knowledge, and I can see that you have been sent a little bit more than I have and thank you very much for your information. So I know that we are all also as the Croatian Parliament and by adopting the Foreign Law, but here is this debate that we are having today that we will also provide legal frameworks and welcome all those who want to act, live and work in the Republic of Croatia and promote it in every way possible. I think that here we are all together today by supporting this law, but also by mentioning all the laws that we have passed is the ones that we will bring into the future as I have said in accordance with all the experiences of others and ours exactly to enable and fill the budget of the Republic of Croatia, of course and one more quality life for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36974	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36975	I don't think there's any doubt that it's a good idea to establish the rules of the game, especially as regards these foreigners who work with us, who are also with us, who are secure in their countries, we have those contracts with these countries, so it's not a problem to charge and services provided to them or members of their family, so this part that's connected to digital nomads, I think, in fact, is the most important part of this law, given that we've actually opened up space for people who are members of.../incomprehensible/... generations, means plus a minus a few years around 2000, that have a very different way of thinking, a different approach to work and a different approach to thinking life itself and their obligations. They don't want any commitment, they're not interested in being tied to one place, and on the other hand they have big incomes and what counterpart Petir said, it's extremely important that we allow them to come to the country and actually live here and spend their money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36976	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36977	Dear colleague Pavić, thank you very much, so here, as I said before, absolutely all of us look at this law in a good way, through any positive act of any kind, and we are sure that given the way of life, life and the availability of communication technology that this group or people of workers are using will also perform a quality promotion of the Republic of Croatia on a global scale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36978	The next is the replica of respected MPs Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36979	Dear colleague, you've described this in detail very nicely, but I have one question. Can a foreigner, based on a marriage to a Croatian citizen or a Croatian citizen, receive permanent compulsory health insurance without having a fixed permanent stay in our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36980	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36981	Well, colleague Marić made detailed statements about all the provisions of the Law on Health Insurance of Foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, of course their right to health care, which is a series of data regulated by this very law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36982	The next is the replica of the respected representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36983	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned your colleague in your debate, of course, and this pandemic that was impossible to avoid, of course, that he had not enjoyed the journeys and arrivals of foreigners to the Republic of Croatia or as a tourist or as digital nomads for the past year. However, as a state, we are among the first in Europe to introduce legislation to the concept of digital nomads and regulate legislation by attracting digital nomads to the Republic of Croatia. And on the trail that we are a tourist country, that we have beautiful mountains, beautiful seas, a beautiful plain I am sure those who want to choose a new area where they could work for a while, choose Croatia and come here. Well, on the trail of those figures mentioned by my colleague Petyr, I think that although some want to show that it is irrelevant and irrelevant for our economy, I think it will be the opposite and that we will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36984	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36985	Thank you very much. Here's an esteemed colleague, as you said, as we've repeated many times today, the Republic of Croatia has a lot to show for it. Of course, as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we believe that we are always special that we are the most beautiful, the best, but we must prove it through this kind of public action and in time we must recognize and show our beauty and quality before others. All countries have their beauty and can show and become a good haven for different groups of foreigners, however, here Croatia has recognised the importance here and reacted in time and we hope to realize all this nice things we are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36986	We also have a replica of the respected representatives of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36987	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. A brief question, are you not a doctor, that you're an IT that works somewhere on the 14th floor or 70th floor in New York to travel to work for 6, 7 hours, and you might be working from somewhere else that would be the criteria that would take you, say, to Hvar?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36988	Dear Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36989	So we see that for many years Croatia is one of the most desirable tourist destinations, we see that our TZ conducts a series of promotional activities just to make the world public aware of our beauty. Of course, apart from these beauty and besides all the good that makes Croatian tourists desirable, we are just obliged to check and be obliged to check what can make this country worse for me in everything that has been nice to me so far, I suppose that's how you think, right? Of course, I would check the legal frameworks, which are difficulties that would make it impossible to go right to Hvar and, of course, by realizing what was provided, I would check, he referred the line form and waited for a positive answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36990	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, Mosta will finally speak to the respected representative Selak Raspoudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36991	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Honorable Chairman. I am sorry that this topic has not led to a bigger debate, especially by HDZ colleagues who propose these amendments and supplement the law by an urgent procedure because they have had a unique opportunity to advertise the status and position of the digital nomad, news and advantages it brings in the HS. For now, we could only learn about them from the replica instead of from your presentations. I do not think that Croatia is comparable to Bali, which is otherwise treated as the number one destination for digital nomads, followed by Buenos Aires, some places in Thailand, and then Mexico. Bali is a country that has a different climate than Croatia, it is a tropical-Monsoon climate, so half-half, has no four seasons, and it is a climate that refers to the island as such. Croatia still has four seasons, and here, as it should primarily be attractive to digital nomads, we can single out only a coast on which the sun cannot be sunbathed and bathed throughout the year, not even half a year. I'm saying this because I'm not someone who supports that we regulate the status of digital nomads, but I'm afraid it's more of a marketing trick and this enthusiasm that this law is trying to present itself very quickly in reality, which Croatian citizens need to know. Why would they fall into reality? First, three are basic things that make a destination desirable for digital nomads. The first is Internet availability, the second is the cost of living, and the third is these so-called Cooperate Coworking, we will have to apply for, to the magazine "Language" for the best new word to invent a term that will replace the term "Coworking", spaces that allow a quality working environment. I do not see that in one of these 3 things Croatia is competitive in relation to countries which are currently desirable environments for digital nomads. Another thing that worries me is that we only think about marketing when we talk about tourism, and even make legal changes, tourism that takes up a worrying percentage, almost a fifth of our domestic GDP, tourism that turns us into a service nation where we recently had an interesting example of an entrepreneur in Makarska who unseenly built a living space for his employees, and conditioned him not to sell the third party. Why does it matter? Because we are increasingly witnessing that, especially on the coast, the domicile population does not enjoy the benefits of living there, and at least staying in its own space and that means being a service nation. To be a service nation, which is what we've burned at the moment, which we now depend on, so we have to allow the citizens to at least make that kind of profit for their lives isn't something great. This means moving to some village, some place where you will temporarily live in no conditions and leaving your apartment, for example in Split, to someone or someone who should have been given in Makarska, perhaps to sell to someone so that at least temporarily you can live from your work, so it means to squeeze, not to have benefites. This means survival for most Croatian citizens, not wavering. It is rare for those who have not fallen into debt and who have managed to achieve quality life through tourism. In order for the Croatian economy to live, we need to focus on exports and on industry, not on putting emphasis on tourism. And this is not some change that is necessary to change the best because the status of the digital nomad and the failure to regulate even labour rights at the time of digitization, which we should have done at other levels, has another message, which is that we come to a final era of individualisation where the state is increasingly and at the level of the sharing economy, and the taxi driver is replaced by an individual who has no working or health rights, not only does he not pay but he has no rights, and that is something that we should all be deeply concerned about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36992	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We are now going to the next point, which is: - Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2018. and Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2019 The holder is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 46. The island law. The debate was conducted by the EU Committee on Regional Development and Funds. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds Monumenta Djuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36995	Dear Vice President HS, esteemed MPs and MPs. Before you there is a report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act for 2018 and 2019. As you know, in accordance with the Law on the Islands, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds is required to implement and monitor the implementation of the policy but also to report on the effects of the implementation of the law, so that you have a report on the effects for 2018 and 2019. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. They are still subject to the Law on the Islands of '99, and the Impact Report for 2019. is implemented under the new Island Act adopted in 2018. Both reports show how the island law is implemented, and show an overview of the investment and engagement of all state administration bodies, local and regional self-government as well as state-owned legal persons in the development of all our islands and Pelješac peninsulas and at the annual level. The reports cover investments in islands through all programmes and activities of all government and public sector bodies and 65 in 2018 and 75 in 2019. through all sources of funding, whether it is grants from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, whether it is the European Structural and Investment Funds placed through ministries, state and public institutions and companies through the grants of units of regional and local self-government, and through credit funds placed by the institutions of HAMAG-BICRO and HBOR respectively. Compares to the amount of investments in 2018 and 2019. the total amounts in 2019; 2 billion and 960 million kuna, and in 2018 These investments amounted to 2 billion and 70 million kuna. The report, which is before you, detailedly suggested and visible that the public sector was primarily focused on improving investment, improving the economy and providing support for the economy, ensuring transport and improving the transport links between the island and the mainland, and building transport infrastructure on the islands itself, which all islanders and perceived as the biggest problems for ensuring better quality of life on the islands. The comparison of data in total investment in the development of Croatian islands over the years shows that the amount of investment has increased as clearly as possible each year and shows that the Republic of Croatia is an island area, an island population, but also recognises island life as an area of special national interest and as an area of great natural, economic and tourist potentials. Some of the areas of investment in 2018 9.6 million kuna was invested for the comparison while it was in 2019. 12.1 million kuna invested in this same economic support sector, which in itself speaks of an increase of 26% of investment in the sector. The energy area has achieved an almost 40% increase in investments in these two years, transport integration and transport infrastructure almost 80%, investments in the agriculture sector in these two years, thus comparing the year '18. and '19. achieved a growth of almost 240%. Environmental protection and energy efficiency with 28 million kuna invested in 2018. in 2019, the European Food Safety Authority (‘the Authority’) concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, ended up at 43.3 million kuna, which is again increasing over 50% of the investment. For self-employment growth compared to these two years is 17%. In all these investments in all of this growth, the above-mentioned contributions in 2019 are significant. It has increased and significantly increased the absorption of eu funds by launching some major priorities, I would say sectoral very important strategic projects for the island communities, so with investments of around 530 million kuna from 2018. As far as the EUR funds were concerned in 2019, this amount is raised to a billion and 460 million kuna. In doing so, the definition and implementation of island policy with capacity-building to use available funds not only from eu funds but also from all other external sources is imposed as the most important source of funding for large strategic projects and programmes implemented on islands, and the roof strategic document, i.e. the strategic planning document The National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 recognized this and recognised the islands within its developmental direction of competitive Innovation and Recognizable Croatia and Strategic Goal 12 Balanced Regional Development and Strengthening the Competitiveness of the region. The provisions of this new Law on Islands entered into force on 29 December 2018. The possibility of sustainable and thoughtful use of the potential of all Croatian islands is opened, stimulating specific island activities using special features of the island, which will then be further strengthened and economically developed. The creation of this report as a document that combines all investments in islands, state and public sector bodies is extremely important and as such contributes to greater, better and more effective coordination of all stakeholders of island development, better control of the management and management processes of island development policy, but most importantly brings greater transparency of all activities and investments carried out by taking care of development policies concerning the Croatian islands. Through several basic data on Croatian islands that I do not repeat myself, I'm sure you all know that already. Our island consists of 1,244 natural formations, of which 78 islands, 524 islets and 642 rocks and reefs. The second largest in the Mediterranean is after Greece and accounts for 5.8% of the total land area of the Republic of Croatia. The territory of the Croatian islands belongs territorially to seven regional units of regional self-government, so seven island coastal counties, and the islands are managed by 59 units of local self-government and 18 towns and 41 municipalities of which 51 are directly situated on the island, and eight units are situated on land and care for their island residents. A total of 50 inhabited islands that live on almost 13,000 inhabitants, the population density of Croatian islands on average is 37.9 inhabitants per km2. To compare this same data for the Republic of Croatia is 75.8 inhabitants per km2. And it is important to note, with Finland, Croatia is the only country in Europe that has systematically taken care of its islands, and for almost 20 years it has been legally regulated and special by the Law on Islands, which was first passed in 1999. We are recently discussing amendments and additions to this 2018 law which we hope will also be adopted in this House. The analysis of the effects achieved on the islands over the years has to say that since 1995. when the rights of the island administration were established in the resolution ministry and the data were not systematically and systematically monitored and reports were submitted in this way, so that the data has been systematised and shown this way since 2006, so that 23, almost 24 billion kuna was invested in the Croatian islands during that period of 14 years. On average, it is at the level of a billion and 700 million kuna a year. Whether it is grants or funds from the EU amounting to around 78% and credits to the remaining 22% of the investment. The Department of Islands in the Resort Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds has invested 3.4 billion kuna in islands since its draft, with an average annual investment of 136 million kuna and is important for, I must say and mention, so this has been data since the start of the administration, and it has been in the Ministry of Regional Development since 2016. The biggest investment in the then island administrations was and took place in 2008. And then the Resort Administration was called an island and coastal development administration, and there was exposure of as much as 347 million kuna, and we have to note that there were investments in islands together, but also funds invested by the Coastal Line Transport Agency, so that the difference in the amount of that year compared to all other years is so drastic. In 2018, which is the subject of this report, the Board of Islands invested 111.8 million kunas of budget funds, so now we are only talking about budgetary resources while the amount was slightly smaller in 2019 and amounted to 91.3 million kuna. The Management of the Islands has invested these funds by implementing an island development programme, thus investing in infrastructure projects on islands, implementing a water subsidy measure to non-water supply systems, a measure of free public transport on islands for certain categories of passengers, then a measure to support island employers to preserve jobs through an annual public call, the implementation of the Croatian island product through the assignment of Croatia, the marking of the Croatian island product, the implementation of a public call to be granted, the support of the organisers of the event, which supports the winners of the HOP markings and the support of the implementation of projects of island associations that are extremely, extremely important for the islanders. Investments in the islands through the operational programme Competitiveness and cohesion, therefore the envelope for the '14th of the 20th is now agreed on 150 projects implemented on Croatian islands of.../incomprehensible/... with the last date of 31.12.2019, from which almost 6.5 billion kuna was agreed from the EU, and 5.6 billion kuna refers to grants. A little less payment has been made, however, given the amount of contracts almost 50% has been paid, which is also at the level of the general operational programme. Of the more significant projects, it is important to note, it is important to highlight the project of building the Pelješko bridge which, with its agreed amount of 2.7 billion, makes a significant contribution to this amount, and then the second largest investment or by the importance of investments, investments in the construction of the island ports, whether it is investment in the port of Tkon on the island of Pasman, in the port of Cres, in Cres on the island of Cres, investments on the island of the Union, Korčula, Vela Luka na Korčula, the town of Baška on the island of Krk, the port of Death on the island of Losinj, the port of Žigljen on the island of Pag, so that total EUR 337.4 million of grants from the operational programme is awarded. Next in line, in terms of investment levels and types of investments, investments in improving the water transport infrastructure are either large water supply or disposal projects on the island of Krk, Pag, Hvar, Cres, Lošinj where a total of 1.1 billion kuna of grants is agreed. As the current situation on the islands is, we have 45 constantly or occasionally inhabited Croatian islands where we include then Peljesac peninsula, which are connected to the public maritime transport system with the mainland but also with each other. 51 maritime lines that operate almost regularly. About 4970 km of roads on islands, of which 672 km of state roads. 58 is homes of health, facilities, hospitals most in the Split-Dalmatia County of them 18, then Dubrovnik-Neretvanska 13, then in the order of Zadar, Primorje-Gorski, Sibenik-Kninska. 69 are kindergartens on our islands, 102 primary schools of which are 38 parent and 64 district schools. There are 13 secondary schools on a total of 8 islands of which the island of Brac and Korčula has 3 secondary schools and is 23 homes for older and powerless persons of which 8 county, 3 owned units of local self-government and 12 private homes for older and powerless. As regards the island economy in these two years, according to the FINA 2019 data, there were 4954 entrepreneurs or companies registered on the islands, which is an increase of about 5% compared to the same available data for 2018. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 225 new companies on islands, which is, is registered 225 companies more in 2019 compared to 2018, I apologize, which had registered almost 24,000 employees. As regards the island administration, a brief review of the impact analysis of the measures it implements. Incentive of the island economy is a measure affecting the development of the island economy. The aim is to help employers who are based on islands, who employ islanders and carry out their activities on islands to help them operate in a way that reduces their operating costs, and thus create conditions or facilitates the creation of conditions for new employment, and above all preserve existing jobs and facilitate the employment of new employees. Support for small value to island employers for the preservation of jobs is granted once a year on the basis of a public call and it is a measure implemented in continuity since 2006. So far 14 such public calls have been made, on the basis of which the support of small value has been realised or granted in the total amount of nearly 130 million kuna, and the total amount has been made on the basis of 2634 requests from island employers. Some island employers appear continuously year after year, so support has been achieved for a total number of employees who exceed 40,000 over the past 14 years of implementation. In 2019, the total amount of aid is 9 million kuna and has been allocated to 251 island employers and 3275 island employees, respectively. The measure of subsidisation of water prices on islands for the purpose of equating the conditions and quality of life on islands in relation to developed areas, the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds shall implement this measure, i.e. to ensure the benefits of water consumption. Every household on the islands according to the Island Law and each natural person now according to the new Island Act whose settlement is not connected to the water supply system has the right to a subsidized price of water. This measure is implemented on 30 Croatian islands and in collaboration with 15 different water service providers, with which the Ministry signs one-year contracts that are then realised every year and thus this report is done. In 19 years of implementation of this measure on islands, more than 194 million kunas were invested. The data from 2019 are about 4808 households on islands that have the right to subsidized water prices, which actually accounts for 13.58% compared to the total number of all island households. The measure to promote public road transport precisely for islands based on the Island Act implemented and implemented the measure of subsidisation of public island road transport, the transport involving the transport of students, students, pensioners, persons over 65 years of age, disabled persons who are entitled to compensation for the costs of their own transport, took place on 17 islands and has invested a total of 457,.../incomprehensible/... almost 458 million kuna for the islands since 2004-2019. This measure since this year passes into the jurisdiction of the Resoring Ministry of Transport and will continue to be implemented in the same way as it has so far. The island development programme since the basis of the island development policy is equalising the conditions and quality of life on islands compared to those on land given the specific geographical location and their demographic structure... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36996	Thank you very much. You'll be able to continue in response to the replicas we have more. The first will be the respected MPs Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36997	Your Honor, the Bridge Representatives Club will not take part in the debate on these reports. Not because we believe that the topic of the island is not important but because we think that the topic of the island is too important to discuss it in this way, so we want to send a political message about the senseless action of the Parliament. Namely, what's the problem? We discussed the amendments and additions to the Island Act last week, and this week we discuss the report on the implementation of the Island Law. In order to discuss the new law, we should first discuss the effects of the law so far. Only in HS is that order backwards. Either the debate in the Assembly is a mere play that serves nothing or is deliberately sabotaged in reverse order. That's why we don't want any part of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36998	Thank you very much. Uh, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Gary Capelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u36999	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor. You mentioned investment in the islands of '18/'19. which are about 5 billion somewhere, and I think you mentioned the importance of EU funds because they are mostly funded, so, in particular, EU grants infrastructure, so I'm also interested in what the relationship is, therefore, EU funding in terms of grants. In '18. And how long it was in '19. and are the plans, therefore, that already for the '20s, especially through the National Development Plan, surely islands are one of the most important items that have entered the programme by 2030 and will this rhythm continue, therefore, to finance EU grants? [[Please, can we keep it down a little bit?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37000	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37001	Thank you, Your Honor, for this matter. I will repeat, therefore, with the amount of about 500 million kuna from EU funds invested in 2018, the amount of EU funds invested in Croatian islands in 2019 has risen to nearly a billion and a half and this amount will continue to grow. It continues to grow as the implementation of major strategic infrastructure projects that started there in '18, late '17, '18. So then, of course, they were conceding and growing in payments and investments. We continue to invest in Croatian islands some of the major infrastructure strategic projects have already found their place in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, such as investments in water supply and disposal, for example, but at the moment, that is, at the stage of programming and drawing up a programming package for the next multiannual period during which all strategic investments already on and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They found their place. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37002	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37003	.../ The speaker is not on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37004	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37005	I thank you for this question, Your Honor. And as you can see from this brief review that has been provided to you and details are naturally in all contributions, investments in agriculture on Croatian islands from 85 million invested in 2018, 2019 has risen to 293.2 million kuna, you are right, resources exist, resources are recognised, not fully exploited and invested, planning and inclusion in the next programming period of this type of support and on Croatian islands will continue to be encouraged, of course bearing in mind all the basic characteristics, island, development policies and this is the use of all resources to the limit of self-sufficiency and sustainability, respecting all the specificities and specificities of the island as specific communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37006	The next is the replica of the respected representative Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37007	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state, about investing in health care. Of course, the units of local self-government and islands invest in spaces, equipment, etc., but I watched how much funds were invested in 2018 by the Ministry of Health, 237 000 kn and it was only for one project in health tourism, Veli Lošinj's spa. A 2019 of the Ministry of Health 443 600, of which national funds are 66,000, EU funds 377 000 and this 2018. EU funds 0 kn and national funds of 237 000. We aim to develop health tourism, and we really have a lot to do and more to attract money from EU funds. What makes it so, either a little turnout or someone's not following the contests, what's the problem? So that's where you should invest a lot more, don't you think?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37008	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37009	I appreciate the question. Yes, I agree with your findings and on this trail and the plan is done, I must underline and emphasise that for the 2014-2020 programming period there were very limited funds for investing in any kind of tourism given that we were at the time of programming this programming period, tourism accounted for almost 20% of GDP, so EU funds were not available to us at all for investment, greater investment in tourism, but unfortunately or fortunately, things... They have also changed at the stage of making both the National Recovery Plan and investments for years to come, or programming the following multi-annual envelopes where tourism will, in any case, find its place and also invest in specific forms of tourism that certainly involve health tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37010	Thank you. The next replica is a respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37011	Dear Secretary, I believe you will agree with me that the Zadar Islands or islands in Zadar County are beautiful islands, green islands and I am a little confused by the fact of the level of investment by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Forests. In fact, in 2018, in the Zadar County area, about 400,000 kn is invested on islands, and that is the situation in these islands, when you look at forests, what interests me, these are forests, and that is why we have a lot of settlements that are on the edge of the forest, even entering one part of the forest, and it is indeed a great risk for these settlements because, only two years ago, these roads are not arranged and if you come down now, they are no longer passing, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the forests have not been cleared. So please tell me if this trend is going to change since a lot more money has been spent on islands down south, that is, this part that are really beautiful and beautiful islands?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37012	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37013	Thank you for asking. I would agree with you if all the islands, all of them 1244, were too great islands, would not agree that investments are more primary on this or that. What I agree with and what I confirm is that the trend of investment and all public authorities on Croatian islands will continue, and so will the Croatian forests, especially through the programming process where they are already differentiated and set some of the priorities in which Croatian forests will participate with their activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37014	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37015	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, so we have a report for 2018 and 2019 in debate. Through that report, we see how much someone invested and how much money they gave to the islands. In this report, I am particularly interested in the part that is related to energy efficiency, or rather, to some environmental issues. And now that we see the fund, it's invested and funded in the purchase of cars that have electric drive. What would be good is that we have in the report and there's only the amount, how much of it is connected to the local self-government units that they've switched to electric cars and power ships? How much does that have to do with the population? Because if we want to have sustainable islands, if we want to have ecological islands, if we really want to take care of some green aspects that we need to take care of, it would be good to have that information in the report, maybe you know them, so you can tell us something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37016	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37017	Thank you very much. I now have no information from my head, but I do know that investments have been realised, that investments have been made in electric cars as well, and especially in alternative ways of investing in the merger of the island between, inter-islandal merger and merger of some of the nearby islands with the mainland, they have been discussed, planned and included in programming documents that are currently being drawn up for the next financial period in significant amounts. The pilot projects have been implemented through this financial period and we can provide you with these data systemised, so now, as I said, I'm not getting out of my head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37018	The next replica of the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37019	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State Đurić, since I know that you are professional in that section, I would like to draw attention to that, I believe, and you can see that, that this is not an impact report but a report on investments, so some activities, financial activities that have been undertaken. The impact report would tell us something else, which is what are the concrete consequences of these investments, and as regards some indicators of quality of life on islands, it is therefore my question whether within your portfolio you have developed some criteria by which, and indicators by which these measures and financial investments could really be monitored, and whether such a report could be obtained, in particular, I think it is important in the context of the development of a recovery plan and resilience and a new perspective of EU funds so that we can better target the measures that and which and the financial and these others heading towards the islands. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37020	State Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37021	The island's national development plan is currently in its final phase, so the document that is being developed is a fundamental National Development Strategy '20-'30. as a very operational document that will define our objectives, what are the measures, and then have its own ex-ante and ex-post impact evaluation in the right way when we talk about the next financial perspective. Here we are talking about the perspective that is currently under way within the framework of the ex-ante or ex-post evaluation and there have been even some... evaluations have been carried out to evaluate the effects of certain priority parties, for the islands themselves as part of, a specific part of the territory, such evaluations have not been made because in this financial period still under way and not so much, they have not been completed to this end in order to have a basis to be evaluated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For these national programmes we did not have, given their size, concrete impact assessments However, there is no reason not to introduce such a thing [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And still. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37022	The next replica is respected MP Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37023	Thank you very much. As an islander from the island of Brac, I know the privilege and blessing of living on islands, on the island. Here I can express my satisfaction with precisely the comprehensive and effects of Croatian Government's investment in islands, Croatia is systematically taking care of its islands headed by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who is truly sensitive to the island's problem, we read this from this report and all the effects of the law adopted in 2018. It is precisely in this law that you have introduced island coordinators who hire regional coordinators who will plan for the development of the island, so I want to know what part of it is, whether they are doing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37024	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37025	I appreciate the question. Yes, all 11 island co-ordinators, as planned in all 7 coastal and island counties and then regional co-ordinators in these island counties are employed, they received their tasks last year, last quarter the Ministry of Regional Development already participated in co-financing their salaries and they actively participate in the definition of measures and activities in this already planned process, and thus, when they are employed and are working on all those monitoring, evaluations, effects that we will then have in the next periods, which is one of the objectives of their identification, representation, introduction, and I say, we expect, in particular, positive effects in this programming process when the island communities and island programs entered all the programming documents in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37026	The next replica is Commissioner Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37027	Thank you very much, dear secretary of state. At one of the meetings of the advisory bodies related to the development of the island where representatives of the association of municipalities and cities participated, in particular, the leaders of the units of the local self-government of the islands, you said a new form of development indexation for local self-government units on the islands, since the existing, which collects them in fact within the whole of the Republic of Croatia according to the same criteria, do not show accurate data, i.e. the exact situation. In particular, a very small number of inhabitants live in some island environments, so when income per capita is seen, they look very large compared to the actual state of affairs, the state of development of these units of local self-government. For this reason, these units of local self-government are classified as the highest level of development, so my question is, why has the indexation for islands not changed for two years?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37028	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37029	Thank you for asking. It is currently in the evaluation phase, i.e. an existing development index, based on which everyone else will then work, I would say other specific indices, such as the mountain-mountan index, and then that includes, of course, the island index.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37030	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37031	It's about your index, the smaller we are, the more developed we are, so I would write that form. So respected State Secretary, 2017 billion and 600, 2018 2 billion and 2019 Two and 900. So in 2 years, it turns out that almost 100% of the investment in the islands has been increased. It doesn't seem very real to me, I'll show it on one example. So, the only growth that was in 2017 on 2018 is 300 million kuna in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, which we found to be the Peljesk Bridge. How much the Pelješki bridge itself is investment in islands, and how much in the state infrastructure and international we can discuss. So, if I were a landman, I would now object to a little and too much investment, even though that's not the case. So, I think that in these reports, there should be a future focus on what is the specific effect of the Island Law, and what is the regular concern of the state for both islands and for all, so the sidewalk on the island and in Slavonia is the same concern of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37032	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37033	I thank the question, of course I would not agree that investing in the Pelješki bridge is only an investment in land, not a investment in the Pelješac Peninsula itself and that it will not bring well-being and development potentials to the peninsula itself, especially because it includes a large part of its access roads that go all over the peninsula, so that if we put it in relation I think we would be somewhere half of what the investment itself concerns. And as for the specificity of the reporting method, yes, we can think about it and for the future some report show specific investments only in the islands, which will then include an impact assessment. You'll agree with me, all investment in islands is an island worry, so now the source of funding for me isn't so important, it's important to invest and realize the investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37034	Thank you. The next is the replica of respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37035	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state. The report is extensive, but I'll have to agree that we have more investment reports and less impact reports. I mean demographic indicators about islands because we all know that Croatia records extremely negative demographic trends. Last year, more than 20,720 people seem to me to have died than they were born, if I add a negative balance through emigration, it's a very serious problem, not only on islands, but also across the country. So I'm interested, is there any possibility that future reports show what demographic indicators and on our islands have been and have we stopped negative demographic trends by this law and these investments at least on the islands?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37036	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37037	Thank you for asking, but if you look, I don't have a page right here right now, and I can tell you exactly which page is on the level of 51 units of local self-government on islands according to DZS 2018. The population increased by 4,903 compared to the last census year, which is 2011. A positive estimate of the trend in the observed period records as many as 36 units of local self-government on the islands, and the largest positive deviations are recorded by the Vir Municipality of almost 30%, the Šolta Municipality of 28% and the Sutivan Municipality of Brač of 15.57%. Among those units that have seen the population decline is the largest number of those from Dubrovnik-Neretva County and those from the Peljesac Peninsula of the island of Korčula and Lastovo. Migration balance from 2011-2019 is mostly positive. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37038	The next is the replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37039	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, we can be quite a lot, and I am personally satisfied with all the effects that have been achieved primarily on the island of Ugljan. As we all know, it is very much invested in energy recovery, and the Regional Development Administration has called for a tender in which here and there the hospital has achieved significant contracts that will restore energy to its own facilities, but it is also very important that for the needs of the Ministry of Health it is also possible to finance 213 specialists for the needs of both the islands and the primary health care, which is very important for the survival and quality of life on the islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37040	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37041	Thank you. And you're right to, the Special Hospital of Coal is one of the largest energy efficiency projects in which significant resources are invested and the island of Ugljan and the municipality of Preko is one of the island municipalities that records the growth of the population in the '19th of 200, and besides them, I think even more than 20 of them, so that investment will continue, investment will continue in health especially in the next financial period, and in the recovery plan are already these investments and included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37042	The next one is the respected representative of Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37043	Thank you very much for your report. I'd just like to look back on this part where it says what the departments are investing in, and it's good, it's all kind of a story about the long-term development of the island, but I'm looking at what the Ministry of Health is investing in health tourism on the island of Losinj, and it's a good project, but depending on what counterpart Peric just said, some basic things about health on the islands don't work. The island of Hvar, and not only have they been lobbying for a long time for their home of health so as not to be tied to the county. On Vis, they're staring at a newly built empty infirmary, and a pediatrician comes to them once a month, some sort of basic thing. children with special needs have no place to turn on their island, unless, as in Brač, they join themselves in an association such as the Bračka Pupoli. But there's a lot left for them to fight and think and to the authorities on the island, and there's no incentive coming from the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37044	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37045	So here I'm just going to tell you that we're taking care of everything in constant contact with the islanders, all island councils, the island council are involved in all the planning and programming processes and the following financial instruments that are available to us, including island coordinators who are also presented with this intention to intensify the monitoring of all those problems that are present in the island communities and that we can adequately and spotably respond to them, so I'm sure these problems that you've listed will, in any case, come to find their place in priorities in the next reporting year and as regards investments in health tourism Veli Lošinj, that's from 2018, we've already talked about, that's one thing we'd like to have been more, for these or those reasons, and we haven't had that opportunity in this current financial period but, The possibilities open up and we'll know how to use them. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37046	The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37047	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Secretary of State, in this report, sees who has invested and how much in the islands in 2018 and 2019, how much funds. However, our islanders are given care and some laws, so I would like to appeal to you that in some laws the specificity of the island is things to give them some milder conditions. For example, Murter-Kornati Municipality received funds from the Environmental Protection Fund for the construction of project documentation for the recovery of landfills, for the construction of a recycling yard and then by law we prescribed that only those units with more than 3000 inhabitants can do so. It's not all the same, 3000 inhabitants on land or on the island, so here's an appeal from this pay phone to put that specificity in a number of laws so that the islanders have lighter conditions and the possibility of the same as on land.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37048	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37049	I thank you, I will dare to remind you of this because with the Chief of the Murter-Kornati Municipality we have discussed this in the Ministry of the Regional Ministry, we have agreed with the Resort Ministry that such things are addressed in an adequate manner, I hope that this will be settled in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37050	Thank you very much. Since it's been over three and a half hours now that we're in this room, we're going to take a break to get some wind, health for a while, so I'll see you in 1 and 15 minutes. MEETING IN 12.57 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13,18 HOURS]] Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? I guess not because he's not here, so I'm opening up the debate and the first one will be talking to the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. On behalf of the club will be spoken of by the respected representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37052	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian National Assembly, the esteemed little colleague Mrak-Taritash and two colleagues, and so it is, lunchtime I guess is, and then the assembly is as full as it is or empty as it is. Therefore, this report covers investments in islands through programmes and activities of as many as 75 state and public sector bodies, through all sources of funding that are quite detailed in these reports listed and exposed. In 2018, investments increased by 22% compared to 2017 and then increased by 43% compared to 2018, so if it is judged by these figures, they are indeed respectable indicators. This contributes significantly to the enhanced absorption of EU funds by launching priority larger projects of importance for the island community. We can see that there's a Peles Bridge that's really very important. As my colleague Bauk said, I must agree with him, not only for the island community but also for the wider community. These funds are growing, meaning in absolute amounts, and they are also increasing the amount of EU funds, grants that were a billion and 460 million kuna in 2019, let's say 2018. 533 million kuna, which means it is almost 3 times more EU grants, which is definitely good because it means that this absorption power and the withdrawal of these funds is in principle growing. What is also apostrophe as the most important source of funding for projects and programmes implemented on Croatian islands is precisely the definition of these policies and the implementation and strengthening of capacities for the use of EU funds and in the future, so that, I think that when we look at these reports, we can be satisfied with the scale and effects of investment in islands, especially with this measure relating to co-financing of water prices. And I'm going to point out once again that I don't see why this amount of water would increase, which is something we discussed last week through the amendments and additions to the island law last week in the first reading of the plenary session. I am pleased to see these positive demographic trends that the respected secretary of state pointed out and perhaps we should all look up to the islands, so see what they do well on the islands to apply it to the rest of the Republic of Croatia because these positive demographic trends are not random and they do not happen on their own. Last week we highlighted several very important elements that are important not only for the islands but also for other parts of the Republic of Croatia, which are mainly to stop emigration and these negative demographic trends, traffic connection, available health care, etc. because why do I say that applies to other parts of Croatia? If you look at the indicators by county, then it is no wonder that the government in its programme for this term stated that it will have special programmes for almost all counties except Istria and the City of Zagreb. I must refer to this famous "Project Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem" which is a special project for a special part of the Republic of Croatia for 5 Slavonian counties and that is where these regional differences were to be reduced, which definitely did not happen. So if we compare this project to the Island Law, then we are forced to conclude an obvious conclusion, which is that we urgently need the Law to restore our village because our villages will, without that law, turn into a wasteland without people and without economic activity. "The project of Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem" and that should be said openly, it has not received results. So we haven't stopped moving, we haven't increased GDP per capita, we've hired a construction operation in the short term through investments in infrastructure projects, but in the long term we only have the cost of maintaining the same, and there are no new jobs that are priority number 1 and not only for these 5 Slavonian counties but also for the whole of Croatia. What is being raised as one of the questions when we look more closely at this report then there remains one clue and it is difficult to separate what is invested is related to raising living standards and living conditions as isoccurred as such. Children's kindergartens, energy restoration of public-purpose buildings, and what is support again, some indirect support for dominant economic activity, which is, of course, tourism? Here I think mainly of the arrangement of promenades, municipal infrastructures, outdoor exercise sites, parks, squares, cycling trails, because they are honestly not only for islanders but for tourists who come to spend their vacation on islands. So through this law, I'm going to intertwine these two things, and that's kind of logical because it's the dominant economic activity on the islands, and that's how it indirectly affects improving the living conditions of the island. Here we come to what we pointed out and last week when we discussed the changes and additions of the Island Act, which refers to the infrastructure that in this concept of tourism where the concept of the sun and the sea is 85% of our tourism, brings some problems, is it, means the issue that this infrastructure must have in winter and summer months because this extension of the tourist season we have been talking about for years, it remains really only at the level of the idea, so Croatia has a great potential for development and other forms of tourism, but unfortunately there is very little movement because this is the danger of devastation of our most important resource, which is preserved and intact nature. In the end, I won't be too long, and we often hear about priorities in this Visko home that include reducing regional differences. We often hear about solidarity and similar concepts but when you look at numbers a little bit more, then it is not exactly like that and an unbalanced regional development is one constant, one specific and one fact that has been standing in Croatia for years and I see today that colleagues and like last week when we talked about amendments and additions to the Law on Islands, colleagues from VIII, IX. And the X. election units were very active and I'm going to commend them now because they're fighting for their end, they're fighting for their voters, and they're basically Parliamentarians and they're supposed to do it. Also, I'd like all the MPs from IV to be. and V. constituency, from 5 Slavonian counties, no matter what political option we belong to. I don't see that enthusiasm with them and Slavonia and Baranja are home to all of us, and we should always keep that in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37053	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS and will be spoken by a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37054	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. So today we have a report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act for 2 years, for 2018 and 2019. I'm absolutely sure that the hodogram would be incomparably better, we could and should have had a report first and then a proposal to amend and supplement the island law because this report is among other things and should be the basis for you to get into the amendments and additions to the island law but well, which is, there, we have now discussed this. I'm not going to repeat how many islands we have, how many inhabited, uninhabited, but what we need, we have some different data depending on what, which source you're using, so somewhere between 48 and 66 is the numbers that are spinning, the Secretary of State thinks she said 50 islands in her opening speech because what's the topic, the topic is people on the islands. The theme is the rest of the people on the islands. The topic is also this report we have reason to see what we have done in this way to encourage people to stay on islands, to have living conditions and to work because sustainable development of the island means improvement and all conditions for improving and developing the local community, increasing the quality and availability of municipal, educational, social, cultural, sports, business, tourism and other public services with systematic support for the environment, the application of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. What I think should be rather than just thinking, but I'm sure that when we have a one-year report, so that's what we have is complex in a way to see exactly what the sector is doing, how much money is invested. But we're going to see what we want with this report and what needs to be the final result. How many people are left? Which islands did we encourage to move to? What did we do that year to make people feel better? It is no accident that I asked about energy efficiency, i.e. it is a broader concept of renewable energy sources. So we saw in 2020 that brought the crown but regardless, we saw this one self-sufficiency that should be in all branches and of course when it comes to energy, it should be even higher. What I'd like to talk about in one report, and now I'm going to talk about that part, I'd like to see, and that's how much we're investing in renewable energy sources, how much the solar system has set up on houses, how much it's invested in vehicles that are electric and now we've already got vehicles on some other drive, not just for local self-government units, but for individuals. What's going on with the dumps? When you see the investment of the Environmental Protection Fund, which was in 2018. Twenty-eight million and 35 projects were related to the rehabilitation of the municipal waste dump. Did we resuscitate this municipal waste mainly or did we not resuscitate it? What do we have left? What are we doing with that? So apart from the figures we have and some things that can be read from, we should tie to some of them really and see what's been done. When you enter the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2019, it is a small amount, but it is still a recovery of municipal waste disposal of municipal waste. I hope someone, not someone you'll get our debates, but it seems to me that when it comes to this Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, it would be good for the report that we get for 2020 to finally say, there are so many waste dumps on the islands. The islands are opening up illegal dumps so we're doing something with them, the way we take care of these illegal waste dumps, which we still do because if we spend our money on scrapping municipal waste and opening up new ones, then we didn't do anything. If we haven't gotten all the conditions that people really have the ability to dump waste, we haven't done anything. I really do, and I know that again, I'm not a general practitioner, and I don't even want to talk about everything when there are reports like this, I'm focusing on certain topics. This topic I want on behalf of the club is really related to the energy efficiency that is seen and investment in the building industry that is on the portfolio of another ministry, but it is also seen what is the role and tasks of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund because they also started with the project Maping the Seabed with the identification of critical locations where waste is located on the sea floor. It's an absolute problem which is, but let's try in one report really see what our waste situation is like. The waste on land is such an illegal location we have so many, with these illegal locations we do so. At the end of the line we raise drones, we have video surveillance or whatever you want, and we have a problem with waste and in the sea which, we recognize, is a waste, for that we've done this for the education of the population, we've cleaned the seabed on these projects, so that would all be when it comes to waste good that we have and that we know. The same reports that are going to follow so now we have this on him we refer to, but this would be well related to climate change. Climate change is a fact, climate change is something Trump alone said was gone and there were some things that changed in America. We have a European Green Plan and part of the resources we invest in the islands is tied up by this European Green Plan, we will have a Recovery and Resistance plan. So, through this Resistance plan, you should already see what we do about resistance. So assessment by the world expert when it comes to Croatia to up to 2100. So it's a long time ago, but for the human race it's not so strong, it'll rise sea levels between 9 and 99 cm, so it's big, but what's declared in Croatia as particularly vulnerable areas are the delta of the river Neretva, the river Krka, Lake Vrana on Biograd, islands and it's particularly marked the island of Krapalj, it's the lowest Croatian island. So according to this up to 2100. The island of Krapnja should no longer be. Whether it's like that or not, it's hard to say. But in order for you to do something, you have to see it now. So, when you have reports on the effects of implementing a law, of course every single one if it's the head of some community that's on the island or the city he's looking at some sort of short-term thing that's important, communal equipment, public lighting, roads, but I think from the state level we have to look at something long-term. So, if we have a Resistance plan then through the Resistance plan where Croatia as a member of the EU will receive certain resources, we should see this resistance to climate change on islands because our islands in this way as it was living on islands, the islands have been living since the Greek era, people have been dealing with what, first agriculture, then fishing, is today the main activity of tourism. Everything we have on the islands is mainly based on tourism, which is the next problem because you have in terms of municipal equipment, you have to communally equip for this peak period when you have tourists. You have places where you have residents, so in the peak period when you deal with tourism, you have tens of thousands more people living on that island, on a small island, on a large island than they do in the normal remaining 10 months, you have a communal infrastructure working for that period because you can't bring tourists to you that you're without water, that you have no electricity, and now you should actually recognize what investments are state for self-sustainability in terms of tourism, but also recognize what tourism is going to be because tourism is a branch that is developing very quickly in some different conditions. If we continue to decide that the tourism generated by 20% of GDP and about a third of the total jobs in Croatia, which is, in the future, island tourism and what kind of island tourism we are developing. I'll keep the rest in person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37055	Thank you. Next is the club Hrvatskikh sovereign in a name to be spoken by the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. I don't see him, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak. So the next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37056	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Respected secretary of state with an assistant. Report on the implementation of the Island Act in 2018 and 2019 We heard in the opening statement of the distinguished secretary of state, and congratulations, you gave a nice picture of it to the MPs. And indeed this island story here in the second week, after last week's Island Law is something to talk about, given that simply these spaces have shown that politics when it has a commonity, when it has continuity, when it has the means to ensure that it can produce good results. And I'm glad that a colleague from Slavonia realized what I last said when I called them to mean, all representatives from Slavonia do not attack the project Slavonia and Baranja, that it is a joint project, that it is a state project and that it contributes to all local self-government, no matter where it is or where it lives or from which it is a party, and that such a story on the islands is already being carried out for almost 25 years and that it has its results. About these results we are now reported, reported by the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and they are a natural sequence of policies made possible by the Island Act, but also by certain sectoral laws from other ministries. Of course, the investments of numerous public enterprises on islands such as Croatian roads, Croatian waters, such as the stup of forests, etc. And that this story has a real and then its own and final number at the end of every year when it's being watched. 49 inhabited, constantly populated islands are the result of good policies, regardless of how many we have 1244, but we wouldn't be able to expect all 1244 to have residents. It wasn't much, much, long ago or long ago inhabited. It is simply the great islands that we all know more or less about and these smaller islands that consist of certain larger towns on land such as the Zadar Islands, such as the Sibenik Islands, such as Dubrovnik Islands, Lošinj Islands, and they have simply organized themselves to make through their local self-governments 51 plus these 8 on land simply make one good meaningful whole that has a good function today, and that is that all these things that invest in them can be returned to the state that makes them money. investments are about to be made. So this story of billions of kunas has its sequence long ago, long ago there since the early 2000s, when it really went pretty hard towards the islands and when it started to add up what everyone contributed to that development. Of course, I am pleased that in 2019 it was a total of 2 billion 959 million because it is really one for me so far the largest amount, and he is testifying together with 2018, which was somewhere on 2 billion kuna that the funds, the European funds finally did theirs, means on the islands. Of course, the Pelješki Bridge, which is the largest investment, is mentioned here, and since it connects Pelješac Peninsula, then we would add it together in this and this report, we did it both in 2006 and '07. and in '08, Peljesac was always part of the story of the Island Act and as such is part of the Island Act itself although it has as a bridge safe and much greater, much greater importance than it is just connecting Peljesac with the mainland i.e. Finally joining the Republic of Croatia in its territorial part. What was heard here in the debate I will try to explain since perhaps the secretary of state at the time of the debate couldn't say it, and it will look back at a lady who isn't here today, so she kept asking us what we did for something. So I've prepared myself so I can list here what we did about Jadrolinia in 2004 alone. – 2011, 12 new ferrys of beautiful names Biokovo, Bol, Cres, Croatia, Ilovik, Jadran, Juraj Dalmatinac, Korčula, Marijan, Supetar, Sveti Krševan. Supetar and St. Krševan were the first ferry ships we made in 2004 in the first attempt means to go to the full restoration of the Jadrolinija fleet, which in these 8 years I say received 12 new ferrys, 2 new catamarans, then by 2020 another 4 new ferrys built, all built in Croatian shipyards. And not to count 10 small ships of catamarans that have entered the private fleet. And this private fleet was created after we passed the Law on Public Line coastal occasional transport that allowed it to mean competition on all lines, which means that it was best shown on the high-speed lines and there they all found their economic interests and today the islanders are really driving in the proper, of course not just islanders and tourists, because of many things it was done to really when they came to Croatia especially on the islands as they think they should be the best and I think we do a lot there. The question of whether the Law on Islands gives i.e. This report is the real picture that happened or agreed on the islands is what I might think about in the ministry, but I don't think it's easy to implement. We therefore believe that a school is financed with 15 million kunas that this school is then either built or that this reaction will. such a stake to create such a value. So for any other investment because it will be difficult to write I don't know that the agglomeration on the island of Krk is, for example, complete, not connected some settlement etc., etc., it means it's not quite easy to describe it in those figures, but I think only this warning of what is happening in certain projects means that they happen, that they have a realisation and that sooner or later, through a year or two, this one will be completed. That's the part Mrs. Dark was talking about. The Croatian islands have also made a major step here, especially the Kvarners, although we still have some problems with our center of management in Mariščina, we are still doing a lot of work today to solve what the law has imposed on us and what they have provided us with. So we have dumps like on the island of Rab which this morning is a technical review, so we're done, we've done what we're asking for a recycling yard, overloaded, etc., rescheduled dumps, and we drive every kilogram of waste to Mariscina. That's what we want to do on the islands, that everything we've stored for 10 years, and that's where this rest is to be rescheduled, and that's all the new stuff that's come into existence in the last 2 years. You drive away means on the CGO and it costs something, of course we would like it to be something cheaper, but it's just something that, that's the standard we're going to have. There won't be any more, I don't know, lots of plastic bags flying all over the space, which eventually end up in the sea, which kind of pollute the environment, etc., which we witnessed for 10 years and 10 years. That's how it's gonna happen on every island. Zadar Islands have been doing this for 10 years, all riding from their islands to the mainland. We also have private operators like on the island of Brac dealing with this, we have the meaning of a municipal society owned by local self-government, we have the island of Krk which is an example that has long begun with its example of how and how waste should be taken care of, so that we may also be an example of many how it is done. As for tourism in summer, the 50 inhabited islands simply have 3 times as many inhabitants as in winter. Let us imagine the City of Zagreb with 2.5 million inhabitants in 3 months or another city with 3 times the population, so that we can think whether we are good, whether we can or if we have offered enough. I think we are, 300,000 people in the 7-8th month when it's the strongest season, it's staying on the islands and it gets me thinking more or less good services both in hotel accommodation and in car camps and in private accommodation, and then it needs to be served on the beach, have enough parking spaces, have a good infrastructure that can bear that sensational function, have enough water, have enough amount of everything we need, for three times as many residents. It is often forgotten or kept out of everything, but I say if it happened maybe in the City of Zagreb for 2 months we would understand what it means on the islands and how every leader of local self-government tries to deal with it and of course we do it quite well and I think our tourists on the islands are satisfied and that is why here, not only because tourists are satisfied but because this report clearly shows that the Island Act works and we fully support it for 2018 and 19. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37057	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, all colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debates on behalf of the MPs' club, the next on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected colleague Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37058	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing reports on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2018 and 2019. I will discuss them unitedly because they are essentially, essentially equal documents, analyse the amount of investment of the state and public sector body in the island and Peljesac peninsula during that time period. And as reports say, in 2019. EUR 2 billion 959 million was invested and in 2018 2 billion 71 million kuna based on the Island Act. The fact that the total amount of investment is if we compare those 2.g. in the islands growing, she would rejoice if she were to apply, or if she were the result of the island law. But it's not like that. If that were the case, all stakeholders, who were invited to show about the amount of investment in the island, thought and did everything, sought to do everything they could to increase the quality of life and the possibility of the island's inhabitants staying. But not everyone tries equally because they don't really have to, nothing forces them to, which I will explain in this debate. Fortunately, the island of Krk from which I come, if we look at it as one whole, there is no problem of what other islands in the Republic of Croatia certainly have or at least part of the island in the Republic of Croatia. I'm talking about when I'm discussing some of the problems that the islanders are facing, say, in Brac or on another smaller island or even in the Primorje-Gorski County. The island of Krk is one of or even dare to say the most developed island in the Republic of Croatia, it is certainly because we have the exactest island in the Republic of Croatia, and it is reasonable that there are no problems like some other islands. I mean, of course, the development of infrastructure, the transport connection, the availability of health, education and other services important to the life of the island population. And that is how I assure you not because this is the result of the Island Act, although it was first adopted in 1999, if I am not mistaken, but because they lived on the island of Krk, and for the island of Krk, there are wise people who have planned to invest in the island of Krk, how the island of Krk will develop and how, and how we will leave the most important man in the centre of interest forever. However, from the perspective of the people of the island of Krk, I will look back at a few of the facts mentioned in the reports, which, for the sake of truthfulness and clarity, need to be clarified. If you take, for example, the fact that the Primorje-Gorski County has invested in the reconstruction of primary schools on the island of Krk, it cannot be said that it did so because it was forced by the Law on the Islands and here we can already see why this is not the Report on the effects of the Island Act. This reconstructed elementary school on the island cannot be an effect on the implementation of the Island Act because it simply does not. It is the effect of a very effective school and education management department of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, which does not need any document to force him to invest equally in an island school or in a school on land, it does so simply on the basis of the criteria of how many students are in that school, in what state the school is, whether the documentation is ready, project documentation for investing in that school, etc. Not a single article of the Island Law gives primary school on the island before school on land when choosing which school will be reconstructed. That is why this cannot be the effect of the Island Law. Regardless, of course we are pleased to be recognized by the Primorje-Gorski County and what is actually the funds that the citizens of the island of Krk are paying into the budget and which are being allocated to the county budget, are returning through investment right to the island of Krk. We must also point out here that the Primorje-Gorski County and the island units of local self-government in the Primorje-Gorski County are very successful even after the withdrawal of grants. That's how it is, for example. through the Ministry of Regional Development Board, even 1/3 of the total funds invested in projects and activities carried out on the islands of the Primorje-Gorski County and is not because someone particularly prefers us, but simply because our projects are quality and ready, ready to withdraw these funds. Now that's our success, and that's not the effect of the Island Act, the efficiency of management in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County area. The Primorian-Gorski County has ready-made projects and is ready to withdraw funds from the Ministry of Regional Development that recognises it. And I thank the Ministry for that. I will take advantage of the opportunity and say in the investments that I did in these reports during 2018 and 2019, but actually did in real Croatian mail. It is 454 103 kn in 2019 and 431 141 kn in 2018 and these investments relate to the purchase of air conditioning devices, to the arrangement or purchase of furniture for postal offices, to the purchase of IT equipment, to increase the security and technical protection system. In addition to this investment is not the result or effect of the Island Act, because nowhere in the Island Law does it appear that there is a need to invest more in postal offices on islands than anywhere else, this is also a realistic explanation of why postal services are at an extremely low level and the functioning of certain postal offices on islands, so we also have such examples fully dependent on funding by the local self-government unit. Do you know that the Post Office in Baška Municipality works because the Baška Municipality is financing a post office in its municipality? Now that's a shame, on the most tourist island in the Republic of Croatia, on the most developed island in the Republic of Croatia. On an island that has no birth problem, on an island that has no problem with the eviction or outflow of the population, it's a shame. In addition to the fact that this situation with postal offices is precisely in local self-government units with the old population, the older population than the average, with a small level of traffic connection because we know that Baška has a traffic connection problem unlike the Omis which is the first end of the let's say, the Krk Bridge, by not investing in modernising, increasing efficiency, availability and quality of postal services, not only does it turn back and that population but it also discourages the young population to stay alive and maintain life in this particular island environment. Then read the annual Croatian Post Office report for 2019, in which the first sentence says that a historically good net profit of € 130.7 million has been achieved, which is significantly higher than in 2018 when profits of €39.4 million have also been obtained. So Croatia's mail makes a record profit and invests in the islands of 454,000 or whatever, 431 000 in the equipment of air conditioning. Finally, I will refer to the promotion of air transport through a PSO programme aimed at maintaining transport connectivity in domestic line air traffic in order to carry out regular air traffic on lines within the Republic of Croatia, as airlines would otherwise not have a commercial interest in maintaining such flights. As far as the island is concerned, the Rijeka Airport is included in the PSO on the island of Krk and on the island of Brac. I don't think the Small Lošinj Airport is even included in this programme, but they are in a completely discriminatory position compared to other airports. For comparison, through the PSO programme for Rijeka Airport, the Rijeka-Osjek-Rijek line is provided with 3000 subsidized seats, i.e. two lines per week. At the same time, 50 000 seats, Pula and Zadar 70 000, Split and Dubrovnik 200 000 and Zagreb 500 000 seats were secured throughout the year. Instead of supporting additional support from the island airport by the Island Law, I do not see the effect of the Island Act on this matter. So this is not a report on the effects of the Island Act. This report is problematicly methodological because the content does not correspond to the truth, a significant part of the investment on the islands is not the result of the Island Law, and therefore it cannot be argued that the investments that are "existing" from the Island Act are growing year after year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37059	Thank you, thank you, colleague Ahmetovic. The debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives will be shared by colleagues Bencic and Boric, the first to speak with a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37060	Thank you. So, last week, when we discussed the Island Law, we were actually discussing some of the things I said, and some principles of development that should be applied to programming measures, but also later in their evaluation, in terms of whether they were fulfilled. What's the first problem with this report is that we get it after we've already discussed the Island Law, it would be good if that debate had preceded that, so clearly, however, okay, we have another reading if I'm not mistaken, so it's certainly not in vain. Another thing that we need to notice in both reports and actually ask the Ministry to fix the future is that this report or it has to be called differently, so it can be a report on investment in the islands because these are data that are inside, and if we want to have a report on effectiveness, so measures on their concrete effects then we have to have a different structured report, different indicators, and it's a much more demanding job. The question is whether we can do it every year, maybe we don't have to do it every year, but maybe on some two-year-old basis, we could do a certain evaluation of the measures to know that these investments we have here have really affected the quality of life on the islands. One of the things I noticed last week, Mr. Boric, you reacted to it, I hope that was the consequence of that reaction, but I must say that I brought the problem of the Croatian Post and the yellow click here, which on some islands suddenly abolished the actual delivery of the package over 2 kilograms. And after already our discussion and the Croatian Island Assembly reacted and after the reactions were here I see that the Croatian Post Office corrected it and increased it from 2 kilograms to 10 kilograms of packages, however it remains to be seen whether this measure should be further improved, whether certain islands are concerned with the fact that packages of 10 kilograms are not delivered. Furthermore, what I wanted to point out in particular today is the report for 2019, which I also mentioned in last debate, which is that there was no investment in islands at the Ministry of Education position last year. Now, there have been investments of course from other ministries in education infrastructure, so we have investments, for example, in energy efficiency, etc. However, why do I point this out as a problem? I believe that, in addition to the basic infrastructure in which we must invest that our key investment to maintain the quality of life and improve demographic image on the islands is to invest in a substructure or specifically in education. So, the availability of quality education, and when I say education, I mean not only primary and secondary school, but also pre-school education, I think that's what should be a key measure for us. So I'm not just talking about schools, buildings, etc., I'm talking about the equipment our children on the islands have. I'm talking about materials they have. And I'm talking about the quality of the school and extracurricular program that they can attend. I think it is absolutely necessary to keep young families on the islands to offer them the first ones sometimes especially because they are in a difficult position, the first certain innovations, innovations, etc., in the field of education, so that their very quality of education goes not only at the speed that goes on land but sometimes faster and better because it is an attractive factor for young families to stay on islands. The very fact that we have a situation in the islands because of the demographic image where you can have fewer classes, in which you can have fewer kindergarten groups we need to use to actually pilot certain standards there that you could later transfer to the mainland. That's why I think investment in that part is crucial. Investments in a quality fit, investments in teachers working on islands to go, to provide them with sabbaticals, to go to additional educations, not from 2-3 days and seminars, but from serious additional educations so that they can offer an even higher quality of education in these areas. The particular problem I want to highlight is the coverage of children in preschool or preschool education and island education. So kindergarten and preschool education is a key step leading to greater or less success later in education. So, you have clear indicators at world research level that every year you have preschool education and extra 10 points on PASS tests later. So preschool education is also a predictor or influences the overall success of education later. For this reason you have a 2016 survey on coverage by units of local self-government, covering children with kindergarten programs on islands especially some, you have, for example, on the island of Mljet the coverage was zero because they had zero kindergartens. So we must ensure that both jaslic and kindergarten services are available on all islands if we want to keep such a young family and ensure the same if not a better standard for our children on the islands in order to actually attract young people to stay or even live on the island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37061	Thank you, we'll stop time. The second part of the presentation on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected representative Rada Boric. Here you go, Mrs. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37062	... Secretary with an associate, I will something in these few minutes in principle also here has already been said that unfortunately these reports are not reports of impact assessment. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] What is also controversial in these reports, with all due respect to how many have worked here for the 19th and public sector bodies, so it seems that in each sector, every ministry has really put its share of investment on hold and that we see not only the synergy of these investments so that we can talk about what has changed on the islands about the improvement of our citizens on the islands, but what I do not think even the synergy of investment is seen here. If the reports themselves were written in an extremely different way, not just methodologically, I'll even give you little banal examples. What is unsearchable, so you can't look at the whole part of the report from the Ministry of Agriculture, for example, you can break down to connect around all the investments in olive growing. But additionally unsearchable and incomparable in the way that reports are made even though it's pointless after 2.g. talk about them, but maybe as some kind of suggestion. For example. In some niches you literally have investment for infrastructure sometimes there is a number of kilometers reached for some amount, and of course someone who would compare, so I would say if the maintenance of the road could not be, for example, maintenance of a 2.5 km road of 1.47 million kuna, and Supetar-Nerežiste 2.1 km 2.6 million kuna. So, it can't be that big a difference in road maintenance, or at least here we have the amount said, it just says in many it's "road maintenance", or we know at least mileage, so let's know how much for some assets there is and the infrastructure is arranged. I think it's the minimum that can be done when you're doing something like that if you're not already asking questions about impact. What also because you don't have synergy, let's say a colleague said we don't have an education report. We really see in some other ministries that safe and related to education, which is, say, right at the Ministry if you want tourism. You have the education of staff in tourism, scholarships, etc. So, but then when you come to the Chapter on Demography, you actually see that scholarships of 6,000 kuna are extremely small, there's no connection between what education gave, and we don't even know if we're re-educated for someone else because it's obviously about the deficit of the waist, but if it's going to be symbolic scholarships then I'm afraid who's going to do this and who's going to participate. They're very well shown, for example. In the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning, that's exactly what rebuilds the school, so other than public buildings, for many of us know which, somewhere it's just a public building, it says whether it's a police building, if I don't know it's a health center. But what concerns us, of course, is that we can't see, as if there's no understanding of what demographic policy is, so that part of demographic policy doesn't exactly include that it's invested in infrastructure education, about school restoration, about education, I don't know what people do in tourism if it's our goal. And what... [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37063	Excuse me, ma'am. The brooch is out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37064	Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37065	Thank you very much. We're going to individual debates, the first individual debate on this agenda item, the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, here you go, ma'am. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37066	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. I will only focus on two things in this individual debate. One thing is investment related to the catastre and the construction of the catastrophe on the islands, and another thing is state property on the islands. So, no matter what we're discussing about islands, these are topics that I'm sure we can open to other topics. Therefore, when you take the investment of the State Geodetic Administration in 2018 and 2019, The investment in 2018 was then around 3.5 million kuna, and the word is said to be “the completion of the cadastrian measurement in the area of the municipality of Kukljica, k.o. Doll 695 hectares", when you take the investment of DGU for 2019. One million and 920 thousand kunas and says "catastrian measurements were carried out and then were exhibits". I think the next time we get a report that would be good if we knew what part of the catastra on the islands was arranged and we don't have any more because with a million and 900 thousand kuna what the DGU gave in a year, you know what you can do, almost nothing or 2.5 million or 2 million that they gave in the previous year nothing. On several occasions it was spoken from this pay phone, but when you are in the actual executive authority just as emphasized the following. Let's take out the cadastre where the building opportunities are, where people have already built, let's take out that cadastre, and then take out the cadastre elsewhere. According to air footage 5.7% of the territory is built, which is built on buildings, which according to the infrastructure. I think that percentage's somewhere on the islands. Somehow, in one report, somewhere in 2020 or 2021, I'd like it to be in 2022 or 2023 when it's related to DGU to say we're done sorting out the cadastres, the cadastre on the islands where the possible construction is arranged, and now we're going to move on and we're going to invest so much and so much money in it. Let's see if we get that, then that would be some indicator, an indicator of existing buildings, for existing houses, for existing infrastructure. And we get to the second part that I'm very happy to talk about and always talk about, and here it was the investment of the Ministry of State Property. It is now in the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, but it was a special ministry in 2018 and 2019. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: The Ministry of State Property has made it quite important to rent the island of Smokovic and that 4 million kuna and 900 thousand kuna were contracted, so it seems to me that it would be a real lease, but let's say that in a year's time it was leased from the Ministry of the Island of Smokvica, and we all know that there were Todorovic and what was happening there, those, what was gained is more than they were in 2.g. DGU invested in a cadastre, so just to get a picture of the relationship we're talking about and says it's in 2018. The Ministry of State Property invested 81 thousand, for 81 million kuna and were there, in fact, there were 14 gift contracts shown in the money where certain JLS and the ministries donated state-owned properties. There's no real estate anywhere, what's it about, and what are we gonna accomplish? So did these municipalities and cities with that property they got from the state do anything further. We can't see that from the report. According to the 2019 report, the Ministry of State Property had 19 donation contracts, and these contracts were equally about the same amount, now not to mention it, but I also don't know what it was about. So, I absolutely think the state needs your property, you shouldn't have property. We need that property if necessary and if it's perspective to give units to local self-government, but to know what happened next. As far as this property is concerned, is something being built on that property, is this property being put into operation, is it something that it seems? We don't see it from this report, and since it's coming to an end, I'll just mention it, for the first time and I'll see the contracts surplus the dig of mineral raw materials on the islands of Mljet and Hvar. And the word about giving extra than one million kuna will be for another chance will be interesting to see who, why and why. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37067	Thank you. Next individual debate, respected representative Gary Cappelli. Here you go, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37068	Dear Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, today, I thank all those who are trying to give maximum support to us islanders and I have heard today, I would not like to go now to those debates such as colleague Ahmetovic, whether thanks to the county somewhere on my island more or less invested or thanks to the local community so city or municipality or state because one without another in the chain would not work if we did not solve the issue of, say, a spatial plan then the county could also not invest anything. So let's not go into that detail, but today we've talked a lot about the effects, whether these effects on our islands are moving in these vast billions in some particular thing. So I'm not going to repeat what everything says today, which we can see I'm going to tell you today a nice story that depends precisely on the effects of what the state has done somewhere, but in the chain and the county and the city, etc. So, next to Little Losinj there's an island called Ilovik, there's about 90 people on it right now. 10, 12 years ago, there was a teacher on that island, there were two students in the field school, the population was mostly evicted, etc. In the meantime, we made all the arrangements and started investing. It invested in a dock somewhere over 20 million, and it started investing in a regional school, and it started investing in the fact that the boat no longer went three or four times a week but now has a 5-day boat line. 5 times a day because a small port near Lošinj was built, one unclassified road was used, thus connecting the island 5 times a day, and 4 times a week ago. There were 2-3 students in that field school. There are nine of them today. Next year, there'll be 12 of them. The first eight classes were one teacher, and now they're two teachers. There are three children, each day traveling neatly to Mali Lošinj High School and returning to Ilovika this afternoon. Three of them are students from that Ilovic. So all in all, one 18-tier child is part of education. There were only 3 families who had children, now 9 families who lived or lived on the island and had children. So that's one proof, that island under the sea got connected to Mali Lošinj has water, like everyone else in Zagreb, let's say even a better 3 times water. There is therefore a network of waterways throughout the island for these 90 inhabitants, there is a sewerage, there is a discharge, so biological discharge, etc., etc. So, the preparation is for landing helicopters so helipads, one of these children was born even in a helicopter during transport to Rijeka. So, all and all sorts of events but proof that there are indeed positive, good, quality events on the islands is precisely this proof of this island of 90 inhabitants. Nearby is the island of Losinj which, there are 2 hotels, let's say 5 stars, which in the next investment swing goes to the construction of 2 golf courses of 18 holes, where in the high stage of construction, that ecological part is now being studied which are possibilities etc., has the Museum of Apoxyomena in which the Ministry of Culture with us together in the local community spent 40 million, has all the services needed by surgeons, gynologists, specialists, interns, etc., and this is the basis for developing tourism. It is a base for the development of tourism for 12 months, not 2-3 months as it is said that there are only 2-3 months on the islands. I'll show you the data in 1910 on Mali Losinj was 250,000 nights from 1.10th to 1.4th, so returning to health tourism. Health tourism could not be done for one solid reason until a year ago because it was a bad law. It couldn't be invested and nobody wanted to invest. This government recognized this problem and we changed a law two years ago that allowed finally investment and interest in investing in health tourism. So that's the whole sequence going on and here's a nice example on one small island as you can and as you want thanks to the entire chain, local self-government, county and state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37069	Thank you. Stay a little Mr. Cappelli, you have a few replicas, the first is a respected representative, please, well-respected representative, please put on a mask and don't advertise the catering facilities, thank you. The first replica of the respected representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37070	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Cappelly, I agree with you that this... and the debate of a distinguished colleague from the island was not exactly at the best level and I don't know what it took to bring her down to some kind of politicizing that was the role of the county in the construction of schools. The County is the founder of the 32 primary schools in our county and of course they will invest in them and it is not the merit of not only do I know their education department but also the state that must have helped each school somewhere, I know about the island of Krk and beyond all, Malinska etc., I will not talk at all about what we've been doing but it's not right, because then in the same way the county port administrations that make the biggest funds from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure need a word, so that county has nothing to do with it, gives 10% of the stakes and happens... So that's what you said, a vertical that connects everyone, and that's exactly what unity and political unity has made it possible for us to have what you've just told on Ilovik, and that's the task and the administration and all the rest of us to do it on all the other islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37071	Thank you, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37072	Thank you, fellow Boric. I haven't been able to tell the same vertical how important it is in health care, let's say, now we could say the county is somehow responsible for the functioning of health care and on these islands, so we won't talk about it. No, again I say vertical is important because to get a surgeon in Mali Losinj who came from Draskovic's trauma where he worked at the ER, he had a salary of 18,19 000 kn, when he came to Lošinj, he had 9,000 kn but not the county made a difference between 9 and 19 but the town of Mali Lošinj. And today we have one of the best surgeons on the islands, etc., etc. So I wouldn't single out the county here, the city, the state, but I'd say, I'd replace it if the islanders weren't to think that way, the islanders should think that the vertical is important. There's going to be more of a town somewhere, there's going to be more of a county somewhere, there's going to be a state, and that's why we're going to have the result of what's in this report and the future reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37073	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37074	A respected colleague, earlier, said that the success of Krka and all honours, but she forgot to say that the island of Krk was the only island that has had a bridge since 1980, so someone was then privileged and others were not privileged but it was forgotten to say that in the meantime the bridge was abolished for the island of Krk, and then it greatly improved the development of tourism but also made life easier and cheaper for the islanders themselves and we know that the bridge also means construction, how much was the reduced cost of, say, any investor's investment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37075	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37076	Thank you very much. Well respected MPs, it's very clear, this government has recognized saying there was no bridge, the other one, it's only being charged etc., etc., so it was before the various authorities so it wasn't recognised, this government has recognized and we've abolished the bridge so what's really improved and reduced the costs, we see now let's say the crowd in the summer you'll see because now let's say Rijeka and everyone from the part where there's no beach, go swimming in Krk because it's no longer charged, let's say. So now they get day-to-day tourists, so they spend something on these beaches, restaurants, etc. again. The specificity is therefore the island but should also be said that today we have 24 ferry lines, 5 fast boat lines, so catamaran lines, 12 classic lines, that the state seems to have spent about 320 million in 2019. So that's the reality, that the islands are being invested, and that's why we have more and more people living on the islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37077	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Katica Glamuzina, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37078	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Cappelli, the capital of the island of Hvar does not have a ferry port, there are many more inhabitants than your island, your place on the island and the entire island. There's no ferry port because there's not all those loose health specialists you mentioned you had, so it might be good if you're willing to change your residence, go to Hvar, run for your office, and maybe your authority allows you to invest in the capital on the island of Hvar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37079	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37080	Thank you, colleague. So I'm going to tell you that one part of these investments we did and during the SDP's government did, they just recognized the importance, so when it comes to the island, I don't think we need too much for it, I won't say that I resent, everyone has the right to say what they want, but on the island we're bloody fighting no matter what power we have, the main thing is that we live better. So, I was also going to Hvar, there at one point they told me, you know, now they've gone too far with that line, we seem at this point they've told me 18 different lines for the island of Hvar in the summer, I speak in summer. So at one point we even exaggerated the connection. I agree that we need to find a model and that in some way we should vertically and horizontally participate in all of this and thus improve life on the islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37081	Thank you very much. We still have another replica, respected representative Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37082	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, when you were speaking about how in fact small islands can also be made a lot and be a driver, you reminded me of the island of Prvic, which is located in the area of the town of Vodice, which in 2012 built Fausto Vrančić Memorial Centre, and it didn't all go so easily and smoothly because the ticket has to be paid for by boat and so on, but here for next year, 2021. The tourist community has launched a new tourist product inspired by Fausto and we will, for example. to tour the cycling trails where Faust passed, so we'll have certain events just inspired by Fausto, so we'll have an oil taster where the olive mill invented by Faust will be presented, so we'll also have a wine taster and there's a grape mill that Faust invented. With these little things back big, we can bring life, tourism and therefore jobs on the island.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37083	Time, thank you. The reply to the replica, please welcome Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37084	Well, of course, it's a good approach to extending the tourist season, finding new models of people's retention to live and work on the island and to come tourists, we know that the islands are being realized around 2019, say, about 20 million nights, so of the 100 that have been realized, so in all of Croatia, how important tourism is on the islands, but also who is the driver and these cultural events, so all of those events that bring about certain prosperity to people who live on the island, tourism will still remain the main driver, but in this report it was seen how much more than a year invested in agriculture, in ecology, in all other important things, of which the islanders live better day by day, so as a real islander who lives more than 180 days on the island, so I can say that I quite accept this report. and that year after year we'll see that quality of life on the island. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37085	Time, thank you. We're moving on with individual debates. Just please, I've tolerated that in accordance with article. 235. The Rules of Procedure when you replicate, then do not replicate someone who spoke 20 minutes ago but replicate the person who discusses it individually. This wasn't right, it wasn't right, but I let go, next time I won't. Next individual debate, respected representative Josip Boris. The Rules of Procedure say it wasn't me. I didn't write it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37086	Thank you very much, Your Honor. If we hadn't replicated the lady, maybe she wouldn't have come, and I'm glad there's this one, of course, that I got the replica right away, and that's the point of political debate that, yes, let's talk, so let everyone say what they think.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37087	I agree, we just have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, so don't be angry. I agree with you completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37088	Here, I wanted another word in an individual debate that here is between the last island laws when we were discussing today we have in office the Registry of the Island and I commend it, and finally we have brought this story down to what should be 1244 of our islands, islands and rocks. And really, this is how everyone in their part should know what it belongs to and that this story finally has its end as it was long ago imagined. As for some other provisions that have come to life since 2018, the transport of waste from the island to the mainland has experienced co-financing of the fund and we have settled this. So no matter what some try to say that something is not according to the Island Law or that some would like to have an effect in a way that measures the Catastrian municipality and that the agent knows who signed up as owner and owner, obviously it should be materials on 10 thousand pages if they were to describe each of these activities in the figure no, and then possibly the project as it looked in the performance, whether it was the maintenance of the road and the basket or there was the asphalting of 10 holes etc., I don't think we should pursue it that way. If Zagreb had such a similar report, there might be fewer discussions today, not as a city that handles billions, there might be less debate in the public space, and they would know more about what it says on paper, but let those who do this care about Zagreb. What I was about to say was that through this law we have made progress and they are visible regardless of who tried to challenge them or stick them to someone else, in this case to some county because I say with the same criteria my mayor could not be photographed at many port administrations i.e. at many ports that were created if we were to see who was responsible for it, whether it was built or not, whether a school was built or not, and whether a home of health was built or not, so it was never the policy I was dealing with, and I don't believe it should be in the future, so that link has included what I see here means port administrations, counties, etc. Since they invest their resources and add to what the state gives, it was once not an integral part of the Island Act, but okay. I like to know everything that happened on the islands to happen, believe me, the islanders see very well. And now I'm going to look back at this part of the e-school. It was one project in 2007, I know what I'm talking about. The project of that school was first implemented in 2007. in cooperation with the Ministry and the Office of the Islands with the Carnet. The first school to be connected to a system that operates today throughout the country in 2007. It was on the Great Wooden. So the smart board, the wi-fi and the content that was suitable for these people, teachers and teachers on land are handing over to students, several of them on islands. We applied this today throughout Croatia, and we saw that we were ready the moment we were caught by this pandemic that we could develop it without a problem. This also won its award as one of the best projects and stories of e-school, for example, only in the section "The School of Life" when the pilot project of the first 10,000 students and 2,000 professors included 4 secondary and 4 elementary schools on Croatian islands. And for that we've fought to have that and that possibility, today it works on every island and I don't think we should go to... the way that someone is teaching us what we should have done or what it should have been like today when we know it and long ago we started out of everyone and that island story is positive. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And whether someone wants to look at one or that detail in a way that they like something more or less, it has what I said from the beginning, one common policy and no one has interrupted it, neither has it interrupted let's say what's going on in the assembly, which is that it's always been more or less accepted in one good way together without some big stories because of what the islands have shown through the figure. We can prove everything with a number, we don't need to say whether something or not, the number, the population is bigger, the investment is so much, I don't know, we can describe schools, how many there are, we have for all the data, for all, every smallest detail. We have data for health care homes, for elderly people's homes, said by the secretary of state herself in the opening speech of her own. We on every big island have a home for the elderly, which was once not even close to it, these are the achievements of some state policies along with regional and of course local levels, without that there would be no It just wouldn't happen. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37089	Time, thank you. We have several replicas, but before that, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37090	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. A colleague, Josip Boric, was injured by an art. 238. The Rules of Procedure argued that I wouldn't have come if they hadn't broken the Rules of Procedure and replicated me even though I had a debate on behalf of the club before, so where no replicas are allowed. Comrade Boric, if my coming here to the assembly depended on your replicas, I would sleep in the assembly because every debate I have simply challenges your replica because obviously I stab you in the srid and you have to make peace with it. Yeah, I'm coming right here to the Assembly to tell you what you're wrong about and where there's inaccuracies and I'm not going to to refrain from doing so [[Intruder: Thank you]] Risking my warning, I'm pleased that you gave me the opportunity to [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] I say what I mean. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37091	Thank you very much, let me tell you what you think, but it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and we know that you and I know that, but here I just sat down and I won't give you a warning about it, but I'm going to give you a warning because you've overstepped time for seven seconds. I asked you to stop, so here's your warning. Col. Boric has the right to say what he thinks even though it's all expensive not according to the Rules of Procedure, not according to the Rules of Procedure, but please let's go, let's be constructive let's not, this is an important topic. And now the replica of the noted respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37092	Dear fellow Boric, you mentioned that you can prove by the figures how much the Island Act has affected the development of the island because you say that even the number of inhabitants can be discussed in this context, the development of certain activities etc., etc. So I'm asking you because the Primorje-Gorski County is doing very good results in the financing of its projects and I've been saying that it's because, because the Primorje-Gorski County is ready with its projects, and you're saying it's not so and you claimed in your replica before that it's not, do you know maybe the county where the projects would be financed without ready documentation? I don't know about the coastal-goran county. Do any of your colleagues in a county that are under the leadership of your colleagues, party colleagues, perhaps have been through some projects where no paperwork is prepared? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37093	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37094	Thank you very much. My colleague Ahmetovic, this is the report on the Island Law, you do not need to be nervous. This is a beautiful story that shows how many states through certain institutions, ministries, etc. have channeled certain funds towards an island or in general and that have implemented certain projects. That you're trying to distort certain of my statements I should be citing someone who's got money without some kind of documentation. Well, no one's doing it today. There's no need for that. You know what a building permit is and what happens after it. So I don't know who this guy is, who's sending something somewhere like a candidacy, and he knows he doesn't have a building permit. What will pass, will pass on funds, will pass I don't know, on public calls etc. These are standards that we've outgrown no matter what you think about your county she also has different criteria and don't let me speak them here. And I'm building one facility, which this county doesn't want to look at at all, they just don't care because you're obviously not good enough. But that doesn't matter, we'll measure it now in the election, and we'll see how anyone goes. But what's important is that there's a vertical and the connection from state to local level. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37095	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37096	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned the self-financing of the island, but also the measures and programmes as many as there are and that we cannot list here from tiny small municipal projects to the large ones that we have recently opened and the largest solar power plant on the island of Vis and the very incentive of all these measures and programmes to go the way of a state policy, which is a policy of green and self-sustaining islands. Here in the debate we forgot, and I think the figures here speak clearly and show us the direction, which is the state policy of this government of the Republic of Croatia. We forget that in 2018 just the government session was on an island and the island of Hvar where it was clear, where the measures were clearly mentioned, here is my colleague Bulj, who has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure he will say that nothing has been invested since then. Let him open this material that I believe is not opening so he can look exactly at the figures and in the billions that have been invested in the islands since the very seat of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37097	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then we will respond to the replica as the Rules of Procedure say. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37098	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Bačić injured Article 238, where he completely told the truth from A to Z. In addition to looking for maritime goods along with Kerum and creating your coalition absolutely in the Split-Dalmatia County since the government was invested directly from the promised 2 billion kunas, nothing. If we go, you and I will take a look. these projects. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37099	Dear fellow Bully, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but here's to see what happens in the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, sir. [[Intruder: Give him a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37100	Thank you, Vice President. Let's see Article 238. I have to really fight back and the numbers tell me, the numbers tell me that Mr. Bulj is lying, he's constantly lying. on each topic, it appears that nothing has been invested in the Split-Dalmatia County, and the figures deny you. [[Intruder: Please.]] Go to the island, go see the largest solar power plant on Vis, go see now the tunnel on Brac and all the roads built, all in Supetar from the hall to the port, the fishing port of Komiza, all this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia along with our county. Well, it didn't fall from the sky, Bull. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37101	Thank you very much. Please let's stop this, let's stop this if possible. Sir, I'm going to give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please don't use it, please, please, I'm going to interrupt the session, there's no reason for this, there's no reason, and this is how we have to vent Okay. You can't speak unless I give you my word. [[Intruder: He had to read and that's it.]] My dear colleague Bulj, do you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37102	My colleague Bacic again injured Article 238, because he completely told the truth. Of the 2 billion kuna promised by the government 4 years ago in Split, zero kuna, nothing. Nothing, nothing except that you weigh concessions and that Mate Jujnović with your local leader in Makarska role model our sika maritime well di is famous and the sang Macarski were sorry. That's what you've done. You've done damage to islands and shores.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37103	Thank you, dear colleague Bulj, no matter how right you are, I must give you a warning, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bacic and I will give you a warning that I am telling you in advance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37104	It's okay, I'll take my chances and even a little bit of me, even a little bit bothered by your remark that even though my colleague Bull is right. I don't know what, what's right, and if anyone's done the biggest political damage in Split-Dalmatia County, it's you in Sinj, and I'm asking you to run for mayor, we'll face what we've invested in, and we'll see who'll be the winner in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37105	Thank you very much. I also give you a reminder. Incomprehensible... the voice of Sanader's protégé there is silent. [[Come on, you get 200 votes, you get in here,.../]] Okay, don't make me take your word for it, thank you very much. Let's move on, the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Boric. Replication to what the gentleman was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37106	A colleague of Bačić says an old man, “if he does not lie, if he lies to a goat, he does not lie to a horn. ” That is why this Report on the Law of Islands and Effects exists. Miro Bulj immediately leaves the assembly because the figures are here, not his stats, so here they write numbers that are... 2018 and 2019 [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37107	Plenkovic's cereal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37108	And then according to the ministries, then by the county, as he wishes, of course he can't paritate, he says he's nothing and we move on because such politicians on the islands don't have some passage and mostly people know what they want to choose and who does them good. So of these stories, unfortunately, that debate went away again even though it was okay, a little bit in the other direction, but it'll calm down, so I'm saying it doesn't need to be nervous because this is a good topic, that a bad topic would understand anxiety, this is a good topic. So helping the weaker or the islands isn't a problem, the government did and showed 5 billion. Some will say why here, why it's not like this, but it's numbers and we can talk about it, and let some new experiences say it, but what they're trying to say is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37109	Thank you very much. It's okay, we're a little nervous. The next replica, the esteemed representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37110	Your Honor, here's a question about the LAGs. Our local self-governments are also organized into LAGs, local action groups. We see that actually in this report about the state support of LAG's is very small, it's in a few tens of thousands of kuna, which is actually not enough. Since we know that part of the island development programme or assistance for islands is being done by the ministry, part of the public enterprises are working, part of the county, part of the local self-government, but the LAGs are doing the same. Among other things, the LAG must bring some kind of development strategy that it unfortunately brought before the National Development Strategy, I suppose, will later be harmonised, but my question is how much is the relationship between the LAGs' role in relation to what the ministry and public companies are doing?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37111	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37112	Thanks a lot, buddy. Well, I think the LAGs are working and have helped many islands. I will tell you my experiences and we have now received certain funds to upgrade I don't know about some of our projects in tourism as well as other tourist communities etc.. They have more modest resources, they are financed from our membership fees that we pay them as local self-government, partly from the funds of course and the state, and of course when the projects start to finance themselves, of course, and in the part relating to project costs. So that story, in my opinion, works very well on the islands as a lower level, let's say some planning, but this law has now taken an additional step towards what we had, so it's not good to verify it, and that's the National Plan for the Development of the Island that will become one long-term document in which, right then, you can say what we started with 2021 and we'll end up in 2030 or 2027, etc. at the time of this multiannual framework. I think it's another step forward. When we started having sustainable development programs, unfortunately they didn't come back to life then because they had a certain A level of trouble I'm not going to talk about right now. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37113	Time, thank you very much, Mr. Boric. Now your last-named representative, Rada Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37114	Comrade Boric, I agree with you that surely the reports should not have 1,000 pages or 10,000 pages. If they are already extensive, and my question is whether you think that this inequality in writing the report itself is just making what we might see as a synergy effect. For example. I'll show you, I believe you've looked at how little and inexplicably described it, for example. What was invested in demographics, and we all swear on it, for example There is exactly no effect anywhere that in those 32 billion that were invested in, say, public free transport that we have a part for young people. I want to tell you, or it's about showing up in the report, so we could have some effect, and this is how unequal we really have, I took an example that somewhere we have how much it costs per mile of road repair, somewhere we only have unclassified roads and round to the corners of the forest. So, question of mine It wasn't about 10,000 pages because I can't [[Intruder: Time]] Not even this 200. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37115	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37116	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, that's why I said we can't be so detailed. We did try, I remember we were trying to be detailed in describing projects, but then it comes to you on 10,000 pages, you just can't. And I know what they're making, they're looking for and they're getting a report and a description of all of it, if you could add it as a contribution, you'd see what kind of document it is if you knew why those 2 million kunas were spent on Brač not in road maintenance. They get it as management and they have it on them. Now this is the most important moment, they will put the number and I think the effect of it is visible through investment, and that road will see those who use it the most, I think, so I can't, we can't now describe every moment because if they were doing it all over the country right now means the moment you're talking about, and to tell the City of Zagreb it's a lot of good to hear what you've spent or what happens with 7 or 8 billion kunas a year. I understand, and then that should take a lot of people to describe it and then sort of inform everyone that everyone knows everything, but it's not the task in this by law. He's to monitor what's going on and react where he needs to react and help.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37117	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Danica Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37118	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Boric, the law has acquired the rights of the island population that have been established since 1999, and then this island law that was passed after 20 years. 2018, which took effect in December, makes all the difference in the cost of living, living and working, the availability of all services on our islands compared to the land to further reduce and make our islands more comfortable and, pleasant and quality for the island's life. In that sense you said everything, I would only supplement your, your debate and say that 1.6 million kuna in 2018. that it was invested only in the island economy, and in 2019 This amount was $12.1 million, which is an increase of 640%, not to mention others, so the report itself says that it is in total in 2019 alone. What we've heard several times [[Intruder: Thank you]] 3 billion kuna invested. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37119	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37120	As far as the island law itself is concerned, in which it is worth it even though some say that nothing in it means anything. And when he left in '99. In the year he didn't write to anyone what he had to do to make something happen on the islands except what we described in the articles, I don't know that the network of maritime facilities will be upgraded as a road, etc., that I don't now list the whole article, etc., and then the ministry that was responsible for this construction of the port, road and everything that was to be built. We have not, as a law, designed that it will be obtained by the Board of the Islands and with its means it will do whatever it takes for the Croatian islands and no one else should do anything anymore. Then HEP should do nothing, Croatian waters need nothing to do, forests etc., so this is not such a level of law. What is its value is that there are certain projects carried out by the administration and the ministry themselves, but that everyone is also available in the section that they can call on certain provisions and implement their measures to benefit those who live there, and these are islanders. There's this mistake that seems to you why something like that was done. or not, he's done a lot. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37121	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Gary Cappellio. Here you go, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37122	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Col. Boric, you've said a lot here that everything concentrates on tourism, that all investments in infrastructure are possible, but this report also says, let's say, in 2018, 640% more than the year before '19th, energy, agriculture, etc. has been invested in the economy, so a significant increase of, say, 242%, etc., therefore also in other segments is being invested. Here's one of the last is, in the meantime, the construction begins or the purchase of six ships, fast emergency ships, so the transport of patients from small islands to the mainland, and the contract for the purchase of helicopters is now planned. This is evidence of an even better future approach especially to health and other investments, so not only tourism and waterfronts, waterfronts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37123	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37124	Thank you very much. A fellow Cappelli here is in the report when we talk about the economy we have a credit investment so HBOR and HAMAG BICRO, and this is all going into the economy, so it's not going anywhere but to the economy and only HBOR with those provisions of the law that we had was more favourable lines of credit for business entities on the islands. I remember that we used them when our tourist company was in difficulty, reprogrammed everything, created a stable company today is one of the biggest ones on the market, and we saved her in some way already, let's say before the bankruptcy. These are the opportunities of the state, and that law is given. They couldn't have gotten favourable loans back then if it hadn't been for the law that many people have been dispensing. And today we're watching, I don't know, island employers, and that's where we took the measure. One average salary on a less developed, half salary on a better developed island for an employer who applied for a public call. Is 10 million kuna or 9, enough. If we should spend 100, we could spend 100, but yet they understand it, they know what they want and that reward is great for them, trust me no matter how much they amount to. And they know what they're doing and what they're asking for. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37125	Thank you. We have another replica, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37126	Thank you very much. Dear fellow you have instructed how much you invest in the islands, of course better anything than nothing, but of course there is room for improvement. I will tell you my favorite theme, health tourism, another 2017, my colleague Cappelli said that 400 million euros will be invested in the overall health tourism in Croatia but saw that we are still in the bandages. I'm interested in one other thing. You have an item to encourage the island economy where, in 2018 and 2019, certain primary health care offices of dental medicine have been allocated to some 3,000 to 7,000 kuna. So that's where the individuals came in for one year and two years. Do you have any idea what those few thousand kunas were spent on, how much it helped them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37127	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Cappelli, please be a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37128	Well, the 238 injury was false, so I said that 350 to 400 million of prepared projects were prepared that I personally saw in health tourism. But since someone had not changed the law before, it was not possible. Now we've changed in Government in 2018 the laws and are now due to start the first investments. Thank God for Covid, I guess it's pretty clear we can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37129	Thank you very much, Your Honor, and all of you, so Article 238 does not regulate the presentation of the truth or the truth, but the disturbance, order, peace, off-the-book, so it was not, don't do that, next time I'll give you a warning. I don't know what they just had? The answer to the replica? Another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37130	Thank you very much, I know I'm risking a warning, but here's the thing with my colleague, I don't mean to argue, but I don't say unverified things. So I checked the data now. Something was planned, something wasn't, so I was talking about the amount that was said out of your mouth, so here I was not telling the truth. That's not what I'm doing or doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37131	Thank you, too, let's say this is your first warning, the second one will be, I mean it's not a warning but as I would say, don't do it anymore. Come on, we've got a reply to the replica, Your Honor, Commissioner Bacic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37132	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37133	Now you've completely confused me. I'm sorry, I was completely confused.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37134	Dear MPs when we talk about this, about these support, it means it's about island employers who have the right to what I said. So on an undeveloped island you get an average salary per year per employee, and on a more developed island such as larger islands Krk, Cres, Lošinj, Rab etc., Hvar, etc., you can get 50% and average paid your gross wages, net wages. And that's what they use. If they were in the office, I don't know that doctor and his sister got maybe two of those average salaries paid in that year. And many others get some larger amounts, especially bigger construction firms, etc., which have a lot more employees and these amounts vary to a maximum of 750,000, and I think they're small-value support that this one can pay off in 3 years and as such they started long ago. And that's what they use. Those several thousand kunas probably mean a lot to them. Considering that they know they're working on an island in [[Intruder: Thank you.]] difficult conditions. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37135	Thank you very much. Time. Here, who said the islanders couldn't be fire? Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debates, and my thesis will be confirmed by the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since we had a debate about the island law a week ago, this is a little déjà vu, but we're gonna do this right. So, implementation reports, the effects of implementing the Island Law are traditional inventory, not only of government or county or these other institutions, but it is an opportunity for us islanders to group together like this and then to hold one like this, to present something that life on the island is compared to the rest of the country. That is why, in the replica, I have actually suggested that in a bunch of reports more focus on these particularities, not on the mere listing of what the state has invested, because methodologically it can be debated, therefore, whether all that is invested in the islands is the consequence of the Island Law. I think sidewalks are being repaired and promenades are working in other parts of Croatia or anything else. So, what's visible from this report is that compared to 2018, if you remember then we didn't wear masks and there were no crowns, we were second in the world in football, we're talking about that period, the Ministry of Agriculture increased investment from 69 to 283 million kuna, in the Ministry of Regional Development from 481 to 787, and how much regional development ministers changed in the meantime better not to mention it. So, I guess it's about the use of money from European funds, that this is a good thing is that, therefore, the increase, thank you Europe, we hope in the future, and in this sense, it's good to have these discussions and preferably with as little politicisation as possible, although just in the evening of local elections, it's not the best time. What was interesting to me, so 21% of the people driving our ferry are isolated and 79% are our guests. So investment is more in the sense that our guests drive nicer or those who visit the island or those who have their property on the island, not only necessarily islanders, but also 21% are therefore well-invested money. What exactly should the goal be? All policies towards islands should aim at equating conditions, enabling equal chances for people on islands, so in terms of health care, education, public transport, infrastructure, water, electricity, telecommunications, etc., so, water supply, security of electricity supply, smooth use of telecommunications, this, telecommunications, so fast Internet and all that should be as accessible as on the mainland. What has been a problem lately is the issue of health care, so even on larger islands on Brač and Hvar, and probably on other islands, there is also a question of the availability of specialist services that our citizens are used to doing on islands, so of course there are health homes that are county but are physically located on islands and I think that the County, especially those in southern Croatia, should once again make an inventory of their health care policy towards the islands. Wherever they came, of course, Mr. Vice-President, they were apprehensive and discreetly fixing the areas they came to, no matter what it was about Croatia or abroad, and this debate was decent until they got involved, as Mirela Holly said, I won't, but on the occasion, I hope that, regardless of these petty differences and future agreements on the island, in 2004, the HDZ government introduced these midnight ferrys, but in 2003, the SDP government introduced free tickets to the pensioners, we tried as hard as we could. I also commend my colleague Mrak-Taritash and my colleague, Boric, because they only appeared individually without being from the island, so you also have praise. And lastly, there are no colleagues of Cappellia, but do you know what is the key difference between Brač and Little Losinj? Mali Losinj has 7 islands, Mali Losinj and... The southern part of Cres, Vele Srakane, Male Srakane and Susak and only one unit of local self-government, and we have one island and therefore we have 8 units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] Now what more efficient can we discuss? My impression is that maybe islands as a whole, especially these larger ones would work better to unite them into a single not unit of local self-government, but a regional self-government with the powers of the County, but in one reform in 20, 30 years, when it does, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37137	Thank you very much. Educational as always, we have several replicas. Dear Representative Erik Fabianic first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37138	Thank you. From all the discussions of our colleagues and colleagues, it turns out that what's about the island law, its application must have helped the islands, and I think that in what was also political debate, there's not much discussion. Problem is, it's developing somewhere else. It's the biggest example of Cres Island. The coastal-goran County through its Institute has decided to, therefore, make paper and documentation, to make two solar power plants, so the solar power plants, with one de facto already in realisation, that is so-called. Eagle One, and Eagle Two is on hold. And I'll explain why he's on hold. The regulation, the internal regulation of Croatia's electricity sector, requires a study of investors from millions and 700 thousand kuna to connect to the network, which may be normal, as soon as a building permit is obtained. The county prepares a solar power plant through its Institute to a local permit, making it easier for the investor to realise the project itself, but now it is required from the Primorje-Gorski County through its Institute to pay these millions and 700 thousand kuna. Is that normal for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37139	Thank you. I apologize to the other colleagues, there's obviously been a problem with the digital weather processing, so you've had a little bit more space, but here's the time. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37140	Thank you. And what you've listed, I think the answer to the question is probably not. So what you've listed shows problems that we can meet or meet. What I can say in principle when you mention this part that we all agree more or less and without great differences is next. So, should I, as a member of the SDP, resent the SDP mayor in your county for investing money, for example by making a political decision in local self-government units in your county, in which HDZ is in the islands and not in those in which the SDP is on land. So, I'd like as an islander that would be and SDP's would be best to shut up. I don't have to blame myself on the islands, and it's not good against the SDPs either. Mr. Vice President, I've noticed that you've praised my argument, which is obvious. I hope she was inspiring and that when you come back to music again, we'll hear a nice song about islands. Those four vitres were closest, but there's someone else who can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37141	Thank you very much. I accept your advice. I was just talking about how fascinating it is to know all the islands and islands in the Losinj aquarium. And now that we're talking about songs, a girl who's not from the island respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37142	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bauk, I really have nothing to do with Dalmatia. I have nothing to do with the sea. I am absolutely rooted elsewhere, but I am one of those who, because of the great love of sailing, has visited all of our islands. I wasn't at the Apple. I was everything else. Not even if I was on the island, but I know about all the waves, all the bays and everything. And what I can say was the first time I started sailing in '86. And I can see what's been going on on the islands since '86. It's done good so far. The things that have been done are good and thanks to the special law, but also thanks to the fact that you have to report on how you consumed not that law, but a series of laws. But what would be incomparably better, and hopefully you agree, is that all of a sudden we see what's been done, which is still to be done because we only see the financial part here, but we don't see the content. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37143	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37144	I thought I'd start by saying that it's brave enough for the President of the Sailing Union to say that it has nothing to do with the sea. But then it's you that don't have any family ties, but it's not necessary. So many people who actually moved to the island from the mainland also enriched the social life on the island on which they moved. In fact, quite often, I can now read quite often in the media as a commendable fact that someone has decided to replace the noise of the big city with the silence and sounds of the wind on one of the remote islands and this is cited as a positive example. Privilege is for us islanders that once every year or twice in three years can be discussed in the Croatian Parliament especially about this segment of life in our country and it would be good for some other parts, the colleague Boris mentioned Zagreb. Of course they're being discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37145	Thank you. The next replica, respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37146	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we've heard here a debate about how all the data can be documented. Of course, that's what I'm saying if the data is haired. However, what I would like to ask is whether you can state the clear impact of the Island Law, and here I am talking about the effects of such as supporting employers, island employers for the employment of the island population. It is a clear effect of the Island Law, because the island law regulates it except for this one that I have cited. Because it is neither the investment of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County or any other county in the reconstruction of the school, nor is the investment of Croatian mail in the air conditioning of postal offices on the islands the effect of the Island Act. They simply do so without any distinction in other areas of the Republic of Croatia. Have you understood my objection to the methodological process of drawing up this report and please once again I want to hear another effect, but indeed the effect of the Island Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37147	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37148	Not only did I realize, I think I said that in the first line of the secretary of state at the beginning. Now, the first effect of the Island Act is that we are having this debate because the Island Law says that an annual debate will be held. That's the first effect. Another effect would be what you said about employers. It is then also a provision on the obligation or the possibility of transport, etc. However, since this Law on Islands is more than one declaration that is further operationalized by implementing acts, regulations and other decisions, the debate itself on the effects of the Island Act itself would not in fact be in any way meaningful because, in many other laws, it is also more important for most of us than the Island Act itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37149	Thank you. And the last replica to you, the esteemed representative, Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37150	Your Honor, I think there are a lot of factors that affect the positive or negative trends in the development of the island or the stagnation in the development of an island. But what bothers me especially is that they're actually on bigger islands of local self-government actually so small that they can't function. What's going on? Despite the fact that the law predicts that islands will develop they and in fact in some part of it, progresses in some part. However, this progress is not even. Why? Because one local self-government has good methods, the other has bad methods. One has a good leader, or good leader, the other has a bad leader. And after that happens to say on an island where you have three local units, let's say the DGU has passed a measurement in one local self-government and in two it's not and when it won't be known.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37151	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37152	It may not be the best day, but in a debate of fellow Yankees when we talked about the Law on Local Self-Government, I said that if I watched which municipalities and cities should be abolished or connected because of the behaviour of their leaders, then I put the City of Zagreb first, so that the size of the unit of local self-government for me is not a key criterion whether it will use all the potential of its development or not. We have an example of large units of local self-government on the mainland and on islands that have not been exploited because of bad leadership, and one part of the small ones, I think of the Kamana Municipality of Karlovak County, which is below a thousand inhabitants who have taken advantage of the fact that it has separated from the larger municipality. Therefore, I think that primarily about whether or not some municipality and the city will develop depends on the government on the people who are water, how much they will be involved, how much they will be able to benefit from the citizens' trust and the ability to lead the municipality, not its size.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37153	Time, thank you very much. It would be all we've exhausted all the replicas. Next individual debate, respected representative Danica Baricevic. As we disinfect the pay phone, thank you for your inspiration, and I promise as soon as we fix the state of affairs, I'll go back to composing, and I'll make a song about it. Here you go, Mrs. Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37154	Thank you very much, Vice President, we look forward to this time of yours, yet it is a more beautiful part of your life. Investment in the islands to say covered by this report through the programmes and activities of the 75 state and public sector, through all sources of funding in 2018, increased by 22% compared to '17, and in 2019 compared to 2018 increased by 43%, and increased absorption of European funds based on larger projects that are of great importance for our island community. The definition and implementation of the island policy and the strengthening of capacity for the use of funds and structural funds are highlighted as the most important source of funding for projects and programmes implemented on our islands. In addition, the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia highlights the islands as one of the key areas of intervention by 2030. This is the case in 2018. of the total amount of €1.87 billion invested, EUR 533 million, and in 2019 totaled €2.59 billion of grants to European funds amounted to €1.46 billion. One of the strategic objectives of territorial development within the adopted National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia is politics and investment that will enable our islands to achieve a full competitive potential and balance in development. The key area of intervention here is the development of smart and sustainable islands, it is precisely a new concept we have heard several times today, and it is a new concept that is also in the EU where the smart island is defined as an island that, using appropriate tools and innovative solutions, develops ecologically and socially technologically, economically sustainablely building a circular economy and increasing self-sufficiency and resilience to climate change. Here from the report for 2019 and '18. It is evident that the public sector was primarily focused on what the islanders and most prominently highlight as the biggest problems of life on the island, improving the economy and supporting the economy, the transport link between the island and the mainland and the construction of transport infrastructure. Investment in Croatian islands during 2018 and 19. They concerned many capital projects of construction, construction, reconstruction in the development of municipal and transport infrastructure, water supply, disposal and energy recovery, spatial planning, nature protection and the environment. That's how they are, for example. In 2019, the regional port administrations invested 78.8 million kuna mainly in investment infrastructures, rehabilitation, reconstruction, construction of ports, operational shores, on new constructions, construction of project documentation. There are investments and state port administrations with the same infrastructure projects or subsidisation of shipowners in which more than 25.5 million kuna is invested. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds through the Department of the Islands is only in 2019. invested more than €92 million in financing capital projects of interest for the development of the island, promoting island public road transport, subsidising water supply prices, encouraging the island economy, Croatian island product, as well as capital donations to non-profit organisations. It should also be noted here that the development of agriculture and fisheries on Croatian islands is increasingly important, and this is evidenced by the investments of the Ministry of Agriculture which, with their activities, helped fishermen develop ava culture, to improve the additional value and quality of the catch itself, there are incentives to invest in the processing of products, fisheries and ava culture, to support sustainable development of fisheries and ava cultural areas, to improve health, safety and working conditions of the fishermen themselves. So here she would really only express satisfaction with the scale and effects of investment in the islands, and especially with the measure of co-financing of the water price found and last week her place right in the amendments and the addition of the law. I believe that these presented, to conclude, will contribute to the demographic and economic revitalisation of our islands with increasing efforts and concrete development measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37155	Thank you. You have one replica of a respected representative of Katica Glamuzina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37156	Thank you. My colleague Baricevic, you've read this wonderfully, I just hope you won't read when the prime minister is present, namely, he doesn't like us to read. Your town on the island of Brac has no logos, when we talk about all these investments and working on islands all that stands, it's all great but some basic things on the islands of the years have been missing for decades. The mayor's efforts had a logo coming from Split for a while, and now it's the last thing I think if I have good information, someone even from Medjugorje. On the island of Brac in Supetar no logo has the need to stay and do its job permanently, it is similar with some other professions. Can you, as a parliamentary representative from the island of Brac, suggest that such matters begin to be resolved by those who are important today to children on the island of Brac?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37157	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37158	Here's a thank you very much for the replica. We are constantly working on to improve services on the island of Brac, there are really no logos, there is also a lack of these labor forces on the islands. Just about two months ago, two and a half months ago, I was at the Ministry of Social Affairs of the State Secretary Maja Plegikosa and Margareta Majarić on the subject, and on Friday, there was a meeting in Split with the Association of Bračci buds in one hour, with Secretary of State Maja Pleikos on that topic to improve this service and expand capacity because unfortunately the children on the island of Brac are more and more and more and more and more and more and more, unfortunately, on all the other islands that the children need more and more, because these children who are sick, unfortunately, in need of such services, I said unfortunately. That's exactly what the government is going to work on, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37159	Thank you. Let's move on. We only have one more individual debate on this agenda point, and it is a respected representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37160	... Bauku since not being from one island means belonging to all the islands. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] So I can cheer from the Union, Iža, Brač to Korčula since all of these are my islands and unfortunately I wasn't like Mrs. Dark I had a chance to sail and see them all, but those I saw were also worth it on Prvic, I'm just thrilled that it would finally work out as it does and every other culture would brag about one Fausto Vrancic, and we're not all these years. I would like to say something more, and I keep coming back, and yet I am a professor, and even she in years, I am really interested in methodology and Mr. Collar of the same last name, from the same island and coming to say that this is really a matter of methodology and not searchability, but that in Zagreb we are also looking at the budget because if I had three months, I would make this report the kind of synchronicity that could have been made and see, for example. If it hadn't been for such a passage on demographic recovery and combined everything that happened from paying free transportation of students to education students, to schools that were energy-efficient and we could show effects. But I'm not ruling, when we're going to have power then I'm going to show that it shows what the effect of some measures is, and not just investment. I'm only sorry here, and it's also about young people, so it writes capital donations to non-profit organisations, you're all aware that on all islands as finally and on the continent civil society is extremely important, like this and the third partner, and I think it's a bit of a concern if, for example, you know. For 2019, we see that the entire 600 million kuna has been allocated to civil organisations and these funds have been allocated to 33 projects and with a maximum financial support of 30,000 and at least 10. Well, I'm not sure how much more than 30,000 kuna is from this niche and how it can be displayed, especially young ones? We know what civil society means about the protection of cultural heritage, with the promotion of the cultural heritage of island products, not to say cultural manifestations, so I think it's a little sad that somewhere it doesn't recognize what civil society means. Of course they can't survive these funds and someone should, so we'd see the effects and analyze what they are, if we had the data of the civilian association from the island managed to get out of the EU. I remember ten years ago one of the first organizations in Murter who managed to withdraw the first half a million euros to create a great centre on Murter. So, can we give ourselves extra credit to civilian associations? And of course you could talk about some more parts, but so let's look around the national parks here, let's say we're worried about a Brijuni Zero whirring. So, is it possible that in some national parks it is not necessary to forestify, and we know how to cramp, look at a little and better report of the same Croatian forest. As Mrs. Dark Tarritash spoke of what she is and state property, as well as how we rule the woods, as well as who needs it, I think that these reports should sometimes be slightly different and explained here, but I guess there will be an opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37161	Thank you very much. You have three replicas, a true replica of Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37162	Thank you very much. Fellow Boris, from the Rapal Treaty 1920 to today, islands are on the tail, and that is a fact. We today, when we return four years ago, I mentioned this earlier, was the Government of Split for the Middle Dalmatian Islands, 2 billion kunas were promised to the County, of course, and islands of which so far have achieved zero, nothing. So only now will the ties be put on, the suit may be a little more relaxed when the votes are sought, absolutely nothing but one project that is significant for Croatia and the EU, it is from the Vucevica exit to Sanader's drill to the non-existent bridge in Kozjak, 40 million kuna otherwise everything else is zero in terms of islands and Central Dalmatian islands and Dalmatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37163	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37164	I will note, I can't like Mr. Boric, even though we have the same last name to defend this accuracy or inaccuracy of the allegations, I took note.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37165	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37166	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, of course it's not true what my colleague Bull said. We had a government just when we were passing the Island Act on the island of Hvar, and then we said that in the next two years we were going to invest some 5 billion kunas and I think that's somewhere close. So whatever it is that's trying to talk about islands here that are finally on the tail, etc., we're taking care of islands. And the task of taking care of islands is local self-government. So when we talk about demographics for sure if you look at a lot of calculations then you'd also see a lot of items that are right about that moment that is very important to every leader. From all kinds of support. Of course, the state goes there again with its measures, and when it comes together, it has its purpose. Unfortunately, I'm sad that it's a small island problem. We really need to say in small islands such as Zadar, Sibenik, etc., we have a problem with the depopulation of these islands and the predominantly older population. And there's government what I've been saying all along to find a moment to solve it. But if we had prepared the infrastructure for those young people, we did, from schools and everything else, that they could be there. But it's not all about the government's capabilities, nor... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37167	Thank you, thank you. The reply to the replica, please, Mrs. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37168	You didn't want to hear me again...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37169	Excuse me, was it a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37170	I'm giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure after such a thing as better, better exposure to historical ones, I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37171	Excuse me, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37172	Well, as if we really don't want to hear from each other, I didn't say, of course, that I know, I know which islands give best support to young families. I was saying that from this report we just don't see that effect, we heard better have then a good practice so maybe at the end of the report put in as Mr. Cappelli described I don't know the situation on Ilovik. So just as much to describe the situation then I don't know about the Unions. So, I didn't argue that they weren't good investments, but they didn't see synergy effects if the report was scattered in every part of each ministry part and someone just had to connect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37173	Thank you very much and last replica to you, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37174	Thank you. Comrade Boric, you are well aware that all of your islands, and mine are the same, and one is even more. So in my debate, I have just drawn attention to the fact that not only matters on islands but in life in general where someone is born, in which religion, nation, etc. is born anyone who can contribute to Sucurac from Macedonia, she is an islander more than perhaps others who were born on islands, so they are not, are not there so often. In comparison, there is one sentence that is often used in ideological discussions, where you were in '91.? On the islands, I'll tell you about it. I'll come here in the first month or come live in January to the island, and let's see in fact. Therefore, we all understand these specificities, and whoever can help including, of course, a valuable civil servant. Which is more of an island than we are born to be [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's exactly what they're experiencing. [[Intruder: Thank you, you must finish, thank you.]] And you can also warn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37175	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37176	And so I took it as a compliment, to me and to my colleague Mrak Taritash, but as you said, there are only two people here who are not from the island so that it really doesn't seem that only the islanders defend the interests of their island and not understanding the whole of what island politics would be. So, I'm very glad to be with as many islands as I could be with, and I hope that soon I'll be on some other islands, and that's exactly what's important to worry about the prosperity of all of our islands and indeed the quality of life on that island has not spoken too much here today, and it's also not connected. So you're really going to see the point where everything's moving closer to, according to the green transition, and maybe we should have had those and the accentes, but what we're all talking about here, we're talking about two years later about the reports after we had the law. No one talked about water today, it says here that I don't know enough 5 m3 per capita's head we increased it last week and that fat For the purposes of maybe just tourism. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So there's no synergy in what we do. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37177	Thank you we have this now exhausted agenda when it comes to individual debates, but we have before the promoter on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST finally respected Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37178	Thank you very much. Here I am going to repeat what she said at the beginning and my colleague that it's a shameful report to give after we've changed the law. So the best thing to do was to give a report, and with the basis of the report, to do so, and that's why MOST didn't participate, I couldn't listen to those lies and lies. I couldn't listen and endure as much as I could lie, so here's what I can just say. I said earlier that since the Rapal Treaty in 1920, at the 11th month when the islands were signed and when the islands were alienated from Croatia and attached to the Italians together who signed with the great Serbs then that this had gone in a completely different direction. Today watch political and speak here that 2 billion kunas are invested in Split-Dalmatia County, which we, mention solar power plants, 0.3% of us spend 0.3% of our energy from the sun, Finland spends more than we do. See Mediterranean other countries of Italy, Greece, other countries see. The islands have been forgotten, but they are not forgotten when we tend to go to the Golden War, and then the beaches of the maritime well, but all to the harm of our people and the islander's well-being must be the maritime well-being of all, not just the coalition potential to sign between the best man of the coalition partner, the best they consider, Zeljko Keruma and this and Ante Sanader. In Split 3 years ago. It was a government session of truth, 2 billion kuna projects, 0 kunas so far achieved, 0. The only thing that's done in that county, here's a colleague from Brač, what's done only in HDZ is denied me, the only thing that can take Boric's word if he can get in front of the club, so he can deny me, the only thing that's done since the entrance to Vučevica, you know if the Vučevica exit, there's no one who unfortunately doesn't ring, or, no mail, something the wolf does, something foxes, and now there's the Sanader drills, these, they, and now there's someone who's supposed to be the tunnel, 40 million kuna four-way road. The islands, what islands, will suck on Split now, there's a parade. There goes Plenkovic and the machinery when it's four years ago, but you forgot the islands. The islands are extinct, they are extinct, you go away in winter, and you will see how many children there are, if you hear children, do you hear the play of children? Those are the facts, you can whisper to him fellow Baricevic, you can, and you are aware that I am telling the truth. And the only orderly, orderly and good that is done is when the commissioners buy land for the kuna agricultural from their neighbours, then according to Kuštević's system, they re-apply, so they become EUR 100, EUR 500. That, they're doing it in accordance and, of course, consistent with the county spatial plan. It's all in sync. That's what you do to that people. And that's a fact and that's the truth. You even vaccinate when you arrive on the way. Injury, give me a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's nice to meet you. Once again, the islands are the pearls of Croatia, the islands are the potential of Croatia, the islands are something we try to invest much more in than in other parts, and even you have done not only these 1,000 islands that we have on the Adriatic but you have made islands of my mountain because of the garden of Sanader, the garden, 40 million quads of tape to its garden. Cetin end, property end, vervain end, nothing, zero, zero, zero, and islands. That's why I'd ask you when you're giving these reports then with your colleague... Then give them these reports before the amendments to the law so that we as parliamentary representatives can see what you have done and why these changes are. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37179	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected representative Danica Baricevic. This is your first breach of the Rules of Procedure today, so be careful what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37180	First breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will knowingly break it. Dear Vice President, so calling here Mr. Miro Bulj to me personally and my party I must say that on the island of Brac, he recites and recites his two mandates, always one and the same, does not move from his recitations, so in relation to him, Split-Dalmatia County invests in islands, in road infrastructure, in port infrastructure in school, in health care and these are huge investments [[Intruder: Thank you]] And that's why he wins. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37181	Thank you very much. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'll be consistent, you're the first time, so here, next time I'll give you a heads-up. Mr. Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you already have one warning, the next means I have to take away the word at this point, will you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37182	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37183	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37184	Just honor the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Chairman, that is the legal level, the Rules of Procedure is the level of law. I would just tell my colleague Baricevic if I had a large number of votes, a large number of votes. You know, multiply your number of votes and all yours on the list, so you'll see. You'll see, look at Bačić's colleagues and how much he's got votes, and he's a neat runner and he reads what Ante Sanader says to him, and I'm not saying what's written to me, but what I see and what the people see, and I'm going to represent it. No more insults, You insult the people. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37185	The time, thank you, you are right, the Rules of Procedure should be the law, but constitutionally we have one problem here and it is not declared by law, and by virtue of Article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by subtracting words from this point. You knew what you were going through, I can't help it, and neither can you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, finally respected representative Josip Boris, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37186	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here I was at the end, I didn't mean to, but I came clean because maybe some benevolent who follows this, this session doesn't mean what my colleague Bulj said was essentially the point of the discussion on the Reports on the Implementation of the Island Act in 2018 and 2019. We discussed it much better than his wishes and pre-election speeches here, let him run, he announced here the mayoral candidacy of Sinj, so let's run for office, and let's see what's worth it. If he wants to be and the mayor can run there too, then let him interpret what he knows and can make moves if that's the case. It's democracy today, and this is about someone having a pay phone, so it calls out to all those who don't have the same kind of big sense, but we're used to it. What I wanted to say about this island law has its effects and we just have to agree on what we want. If we only want the Law on Islands and the effects of what it says in that law, then we will be very easily aware of what the administration is doing and we will explain in the figure and in the description of what is happening with these 100 million kunas. I think it's much more valuable than what we have now, regardless of some of our wishes to follow what's going on in all sectors that can help build good infrastructure on the island first, and then it's the basis for better living on it and that economic activities can be realized on it as we want, and that's primarily tourism, and then after that, fishing and agriculture, and that's what's visible and through a report like this, I'm just saying it depends on who it pleases. In fact, when we have certain reports and other bodies we are never satisfied and we always find a certain level of dissatisfaction in some detail, I think this is a more or less year-on-year good document. Thank you and fellow Bauku who made it possible for us to discuss it at the plenary session, not to go to some committee, so we don't know what happens to us in one term, and that's fine. That's what I've been saying, certain policies that have a common moment and that contributes to the islands, and that's what I've been pushing for since the beginning. What we could hear as observations I think I can stand maybe it can really be described differently, but then let's be prepared for some documents that will be much wider than what we have right now, and this isn't very little either. Now that we've had enough of that? The island law has achieved its own, which is to preserve life on the islands, to determine according to those aids that we can give as a state, that this assistance can be given to the economics, that this assistance can also be obtained by the Civil Society Association, that this assistance can be given to the man who has his own house, and there is no connected water to his facility, etc. And that we have certain levels that people down there satisfy. We can't know much of their gratitude for this here, but in conversations with them, we realize that they understand what it means to us. Which means the Law on Line Coastal Maritime Transport, which has allowed us 50% cheaper tickets or some other law that through its provisions gives certain rights that may not have given this law in its text. That's what this report contains and we're clearly showing it here. What's more important to say, we in the islands have a certain level of life that I think is satisfactory, it is not at the highest level, but that there is space in the Republic that also deserves a certain state's help in this way or similar way, but then there are politicians who should solve it. Whether it's just a speech and nothing's wrong with the government or some other moments that can give such an area some help. We had more laws for assisted areas and they all contributed to these areas. Unfortunately, I say in history we note that some have been demoted by these legal regulations, these areas have not experienced what they should have experienced and should not be seen in this law as something that is then bad just because it was not right in that area. So we're going to be testifying in these next two months of election campaigns here at HS, but then it would be okay for those colleagues of ours who don't have anything to put on a list so let's see how good it is when they get some trust or mistrust from their citizens. This is just how we try more or less the opportunities of SDPs or I don't know HDZ politicians, and everyone else is very small so that they can assess what contributes to a particular area. It's probably gonna change something, I don't know, but here's one of my opinions. This should be supported and we will support it and we hope that in 2020 the report will also be as good as in 2019 and '18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37187	Thank you. We all hope something changes. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the finally respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37188	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a second reading of the Island Act should be within six months, and then it would be a turn to discuss the report for 2020. Before 2023 because if this is from '18. The debate in the '21s would not be a good report for the 2020 debate in 2023, so here is if the President of the Parliament or if someone gives him the attention that next time, at least put the same day of those two points, and not that we have to repeat what we said about seven days ago. The sum of these reports could be in order for Grunf to write it down better than to invest less, so no investment in the islands is basically an excessively wrong investment if it is spent for the purpose for which it is intended. And if that goes beyond that point, then you better not invest anything, but it's not just the problem of our islands, it's the problem in general. It will be interesting to see, in fact, what will be the consequences of the functioning of our islands because of the covida-19, so primarily the effect of the tourist season, this isolation of traffic and the other was even kind of positively received during the especially first wave when many actually from the continents from the cities suddenly remembered and sent either family or they went to the islands. Also, all of those topics that are now current do not seem to be dealt with quickly, so the issue of health care or the number of doctors is not the only problem on the islands. So we are missing a doctor in the country, and this lack is only further potent in the fact that those who decide to make that call obviously want to stay in cities to a greater extent or rarely decide to come to the island. In that sense, it is a bad thing, it is a good thing that when you find a single personnel solution that you are thus relatively rounding for a long period of time the need for this kind of doctor or any other professional staff. In this respect, it might be good to pay particular attention to the provision of public services to both teachers and doctors and to all others who are simply to ensure that the environment closed or traffic-insulated by land can function to take account of it. So, for this specialist, it seems to me that each of Brač’s municipalities has singled out a thousand kunas in order to get a higher salary or to be an additional income to make it possible for him, shlash has motivated him to continue his life or his career on the island, whether it is a matter of financial support, whether it is any other thing that can motivate someone to come to work as a person who has already been educated for a certain number of years in such a place should be seen because, if in Split, there will be a lack of these kinds of doctors and all the islands surrounding the City of Split, unless someone has plotted for his life to be there. These are the current problems that, at least before I was preparing to discuss these reports, which is going on every year or in some dynamics, we haven't met. Secondly, the effects on tourism, the effects on those people who deal with tourism because of covida-19 should be seen, what are they in this sense even the island's offer except of course where large hotel houses have an advantage in this case. So I think there were even smaller problems here than anywhere else in general. To conclude, no man is an island, so neither the Island Act is for himself nor the only one who cares about the islands. I look forward to future discussions this year in the second reading of the Law on Islands and all other reports, and here is my colleague, Boric If we can discuss 2020, we can discuss 2021, [[Intruder Škoro: Thank you.]] So Miro stop trolling anymore... [[/Intruder Škoro: Thank you. That'll be all.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37189	You can continue outside the assembly, no problem. Thank you very much, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37190	I just wanted to fight to say that.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37191	You can go outside, thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, finally respected representative Željko Sačić. Here you go, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sir and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. This is the case in my life that I have been able to regularly tour and stay on the beautiful islands of Cres and Lošinj in continuity and from personal experience to witness the tremendously large shifts of quality that this society has made in those 10, 11, 12 years above all in the traffic connection of these islands, and above all in the quality of life on these islands thanks to the investment of both the state of central and county levels, as well as islands of the island authorities of local administrations, mayors and all those. I was known earlier as the police officer who has problems with these islands, the biggest problems in life except for those standard demographics and incomes that vary naturally in the pre-season, the season in better years is very good, and in winter as our colleague Arsen says, it's something else in January, February, but then it's nice. And by then, we are all actually aware of these domestic people down there, especially in Losinj and Cres that they are except for mentioning the steps I made, and it is today incomprehensibly qualitatively arranged, to get to Mali Losinj is less pressure than before ten dominoes, from Krk that we do not say to charge, there is no toll until the communication is expanded throughout the road through Krk, to the ferry port in Merag, until the introduction of many lines all this expensive has been reflected in this year before the covid on a tremendously large increase of tourists, thank God. This tourism carries with it as you know everything that needs the whole structure of logistics to be expanded at that time, there's a population with its domicile actually sometimes two to three times and then we see what's missing or what's not there. And there's no such thing as, there's not enough room, if we say from the last one, the crowd is on land, but there's a parking space there at that time we won't trivialize, but there are places that might need to be invested, the local authorities know that. He's got what he's got, he's got drugs, he's got drug abuse too, he's got other forms of crime. Thank God he doesn't, but drug abuse has, and that's a thing for our police. They fight, they have results, but they have a lot of stuff from imports. Also, for our tax collectors, they have an extremely good opportunity to control where it is invested, how much dirty money it has. A large number of investors down there have, but the local level and many others know that there is a lot of what is earned in any other way, and investors are connected with who knows what revenue sources, the Tax Administration rarely does its job, inspection services too. The devastation has unfortunately this wonderful space in it, and it needs to be potentiated by our services to work. And, of course, we can say just as the Loser is concerned, you have a tremendously great attack on those wild boars. It may be funny to us, but they do great damage and domestic locals, local communities, hunters can't handle it. Here we will need, in Zagreb we have a problem in Markusevic, and let alone down on the islands, you cannot believe but truly, there is a problem. And it's certainly incomprehensible that garbage cans are locked up and that actually everyone who comes doesn't have a chance to dump the trash. It really needs to be solved one more appropriate way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37193	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the finally respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37194	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, this law, that is, this report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act, needs to be a guideline. So, when the state decided and concluded that the situation with the islands was really alarming, it was alarming, it decided that we had, that it was defined by a special law and the way to invest in the islands and what to do, but not only that we had a special law for someone to be a report every year on the effects that were made. This report, on the one hand, can be viewed as a form, but on the other hand, this is an indication that when a state decides the same way and declares a certain part of the Republic of Croatia's space in which it requires additional investment that we should then have a report. Not because the parliamentary deputies have something to discuss in a few days, not because they're talking about who's from or isn't from where, but then it all has its own continuity and meaning. And I'm reading this report in that context, but what I said on behalf of the club, and in individual terms, it would be good to take a step further. Not only do we have the numbers as much as anyone has invested, but let's see what we've done and what else we need to do. I showed you this in an indicator that is related to the recovery of wild waste dumps or the rehabilitation of municipal dumps is a waste of what the fund does or let's say what the State Geodetic Administration is doing is a disaster. The fact is that I really don't have any origin that's connected to the sea clean part of continental Croatia as much as possible, but as counterpart Rada Boric said, you know you kind of love all the islands. I'm '86. For the first time in years with a sailboat, I started from island to island and when I was a resolute minister and when someone came to me with a spatial plan that was tied up when I was working on a spatial plan tied to the sea, then I would ask for every wave why you planned or didn't plan it, why, one way or another, when you see it in one, it's different for you, but for this debate, what's important is that you can follow the changes that have happened. I have to tell you that since '86. And so far, terrible changes have taken place. Then when I left the island we looked like a monster, they looked at us because everything we needed was on that boat, from baby diapers and beyond because we didn't dare move at all because we didn't know if you could buy anything anywhere. Today things have changed, lately, lately I haven't thought of doing it from other things because you can do it on islands as well. When it comes to the protection of the island and the protection of nature, then it was you that the nautical tourism was going to be just that tourism, you have different, so one of the nautical tourism is our tourism. The first marinas were headed there in '89-'90, until then you had no marinas, each came to throw their anchor to someone with greater knowledge, and the other with less knowledge not only tossed the bottom but what was in that shaft on the anchor when it docked and went into the second wave passed into another wave. And passed on some cultures that weren't. When you look at the last 10 years all the waves that are acceptable to the boatmen have bohemians, so you commit to a bovo that offers you security that you will sleep peacefully, and not make sure that someone threw an anchor one way or another, offers you the same way that I look at it from the aspect of nature protection or the environment it is incomparable to put it so that you have a bar in the spring to which you bind yourself rather than to throw your anchor and destroy the bottom. So, when the debate on islands is about islands or the report on law enforcement could also apply to some other parts of Croatia only that everything here is somehow small, everything is in one place, all of our problems are slightly larger. The problem of coming to the islands is, of course, much bigger than the problem of coming you in another Croatia can say that it is poorly connected, that there is no road, that there is no railway, but on the islands if you have an extremely bad time there is no arrival and no departure. So on the islands, everything's been potent a lot more, all the problems we usually have. The problems on the islands are much, much stronger express. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37195	Thank you. And we have, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Club, final reports on islands for 2018 and '19. year, express continental Mr. Representative Davor Dretar There you are at home. [[I'm here at home.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37196	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My dear secretary, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-worker and co-worker, that I, too, love each and every one of us when MP Bauk a little praises us, so here's to letting me report to the Continent about the implementation of the Island Act. What first comes to me as an operative to a man who comes from the private sector falls to my attention when I started to open these two extremely large documents during this weekend is almost 600 pages all together for 2018 and '19. is the fact pointed out by colleague Selak Rasdić that after we talked about certain changes to the Water and Water Subsidisation Act and similar topics, we now look 2 years ago, almost 2.5 years ago and talk about the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2018. So as someone coming from the real sector, I knew on January 1, 2019 exactly how much I spent 2018. These reports are also believed to the Croatian state perhaps faster than I do as a small entrepreneur, so once again I really express my sincere wonder why it takes so long for the ministries, or various entities involved in this report to submit this information to all of us. As far as the data is concerned, I have to admit it's extremely extensive matter. But let's just say what I saw first, which is kind of the same thing, and I can say put a little bit of the wonder of the state is obviously quite broad arms. I don't know what exactly is done because some things are listed as project documentation for the reconstruction of the facility, for the teaching of the University of Zadar, which was paid by the Ministry of Science and Education by 4 hundreds of thousands of kuna. Well, I have to admit, it's certainly some sort of grand object, and one of the top reconstructions seems to me to be an extremely high cost. But I'm still saying I don't have an insight, I don't know what it was about. But let's say that the Ministry of Defence for the maintenance of military sites and buildings on Lastovo, Dugi Otok and Mljet only pays 36,000 kuna on one observation tower. I have to admit, I don't know where or how to get such an expensive air conditioning for an observation tower. I think it's too much. I'm saying again, I'm not just attacking anyone. But one thing that cheered me up was an educational workshop for children on the subject of a South Dalmatian donkey. Here's some kids learn what a South Dalmatian donkey is. To this end, only 1000 kuna are allocated. I think that if we want to, of course, promote a South Dalmatian donkey, we should maybe invest a little more. State Secretary, pull the strings. But joke aside. What you can really see is the discretionary right of certain ministries or public companies when granting support especially in cultural activity, so the Ministry of Culture in 2018 granted support of 250,000 kunas for Ulysses Theatre in Brijuni. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Istrian County took over the obligation, so Ulysses Theatre was awarded 2,000 kuna. I've talked to several private entrepreneurs in culture, and that's exactly what made them a little bit concerned, which is why they don't get the same amount for a year. Sometimes more, mostly it gets smaller and sometimes more. It's mostly very difficult for them to form their financial plans that way. But let's just say I followed a little Croatian road. State road 106 roads per Pag let us see this in 2018 534000 kuna, in 2019. 2 million and 208,000 kuna for a 73km long road. So one year 7 and 200 kuna per km, 7 thousand and 200, the second year almost 30,000 kuna. Also interesting is the road via Korčula D118 whose maintenance costs 28 thousand and 375 kuna per km per year. And the D416 road is 9 hundred meters long, and it costs us one year 14, the second year 12 000 kuna. Here is interesting information from which each of us gives the message, or only the state of our islands reads as he wishes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37197	Thank you. And with this, we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. On behalf of the promoter, he will finally speak to the esteemed State Secretary, Smonymka Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37198	I thank the chairman. Dear MPs and parliamentary MPs, on behalf of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, I will just highlight a few facts that I think are important to remain as the final or final word of us as a proposing. First of all, I want to thank you all for a very constructive and proactive comprehensive debate. All suggestions, all suggestions for improvement will naturally be taken into account and included in everything we do in the next period ahead. As I noted in the introduction, defining and implementing island policy and strengthening capacity to use EU resources from available structural funds are being imposed on us as the most important factor for further definition of all projects and programmes for the development of islands and island policies. The islands as areas with developmental specificities, geographical features are also recognised as such in the National Development Strategy by 2030 as part of or as a sequence currently in the design phase and implementing act, i.e. the National Plan for the Development of the Island, which will be very soon through the work of its working group established for its construction, consisting of representatives of the ministries and other state bodies, bodies of regional, local self-government, legal bodies, persons with public authority and members of the scientific community, but also of the civilian community, will be very soon followed by consultations on a draft which, of course, will be followed by a partnership dialogue with all other representatives of interested stakeholders, but also by the interested public through e-instruction. So we are already looking forward to all further proposals for improvement, improvement and this extremely important implementing act that will further contribute to the development of the island and targeted policies aimed at our own islands. In the new financial perspective, through a multi-annual financial framework by implementing a new territorial approach, as you know, we are opening up the possibility of investing in specific structural funds or funds from structural funds for the development of the island which, in the previous period as such, did not exist as a special territorial programme and we look forward and we have great expectations of it to further improve investment and development in the islands. As part of the activities developed by the island's national development plan, the Ministry of Regional Development has been in the process of collecting an indicative list of island development projects already and so far, the number of project ideas that our island coordinators have naturally helped us reach more than 900. These are project ideas and projects that have the potential to implement, of course by additional selection but also by additional consultations with all other sectoral bodies, this project list or project leprosy or project peyplan will also contribute to additional and targeted intervention, targeted interventions on our islands that will follow in the period ahead of us. And just one more comment, in conclusion, is that making such a report as you had in front of you as a comprehensive document that combines all investments in the islands in one place, both the state and public sector bodies and all those specific investments that were realised on the island aims and aims to represent all investments in one place, to present in one place everything that has been invested in order to facilitate, first of all, the complementarity and better efficiency of such investments. And finally, what is the ultimate goal, which has achieved a better transparency of investment in realised and planned investments on all our islands through all the projects that are being implemented both within the framework of what I said to our ministry and within all the other bodies that are in charge of it. And I will end up with this and thank you once again to everyone for their participation, for the active and very proactive and interesting and constructive suggestions for improvements- The improvements and places for improvement are always there and we recognise it and we do not run away from it and we will work on it and hopefully to the satisfaction of all and apply in the next report that will follow for 2020. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37199	Thank you, you have two replicas, so please stay behind the pay phone. The first replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go, Mrs. Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37200	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State. So the amendments and additions to the Island Law go one way or another because you are harmonising with some other laws from your portfolio because it was seen that the Island Law may have gone too far and not in accordance with each other, so I am reading this report. So for years these reports have been the way that a financial sector has invested, all right, but I think it's going to take some step in the future, for some things you can't predict how much work is left, but for some things you can. So let's see for the next report, let's see what's left to sanitize 20, 22, or we have this problem so we get some meat to see what that's about. I'm sure it's possible to do that and I think it would get a better quality and more content report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37201	Time, reply to the replica, here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37202	Thank you for your clarification and for the supplement, and we will take this into account when drawing up the following report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37203	Thank you. And another replica of the respected representative Danica Baricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37204	Thank you very much. Here you have now encouraged me to once again say the main achievements of the Resor in the term of this Government, Andrej Plenkovic, who passed after 20 years and the Law on the Islands 2018, which entered what this means for us islanders. You just said so, and I would point out once again that this law has just created the basis for future funding and withdrawal from European funds. So, in this future financial period, the islands will for the first time be able to withdraw EU funds and this is a great opportunity for islands and island and local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37205	Thank you. Replica's reply, respectable Secretary of State Memorial Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37206	Thank you for this comment. I'll just tell you that I'm not an islander, but I've had the privilege of working with a colleague who, while not an islander is more than any islander, has the privilege of working so long and so warmly for the Croatian islands. Since I am not from the island, I am from a region almost 50 km from Zagreb, I would love to have at least a similar legal basis for development, and this area of Kordun and Banija could also be discussed in such reports and on such occasions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37207	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. You can thank you. I therefore conclude the debate on the report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2018. and Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2019. And we'll vote when the conditions come to pass. According to the recommendations now it's 16 hours and 12 minutes, the last break was exactly three hours ago, so I'd like to grant a break of 10 minutes, we'll continue at 16 hours and 22 minutes. It's 4:12 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,21 HOURS]] The next item of the agenda is: The list of candidates for the selection of seven members of the HRT Programme Council shall be submitted by the Information, Information and Media Committee on the basis of Article 25. HRT law. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, I'm sorry. First of all, we're gonna have a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37210	The Honorable Chairman is asking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club in order to discuss once more within the club the meaning of the debate on members of the HRT Programme Council. It is, in fact, the body fully deposed by the 2012 HRT Act, which was brought by the then government gathered around the SDP, which established direct political control. Most of the majority control in the assembly over HRT, which after a convenient takeover and continued this poor practice of HDZ's majority. The Programme Council was once an important body, which together with the Supervisory Board in the Joint Assembly 2/3 of the majority elected the administration before these changes of the HRT and elected the editors-in-chief. After this decomposition in 2012, this body is completely irrelevant. Mr. Zdravko Kejo, president of the program council, proved it to us honestly and very plastically at the board's session. So they don't serve anything, and they don't decide anything. We could figure out how to compare that body's functionality to the male tit that the people would say. So it seems to me that the debate on whether this or that candidate for the programming council is better is a debate on the quality of male breast lactation. In particular, in a situation where the formally deposed body is further deposed by the head director of the HRT, which also refers to the Supervisory Board. I'll just give you two examples. On its own, the directorate enrolled HRT in the register of non-profit organisations. So it began to run non-profit accounting beyond knowledge and without permission from the board. It's the board, the board of directors, who wrote to the Ministry of Finance. The finance ministry first rejected the proposal at the request of the HRT directorate because it was overcomplicated in the end, obviously due to political pressure it missed. And the other problem is the constant impediment of the formation of an independent commission to investigate cases of sexual harassment and abuse on HRT. Because of everything That's what I'm asking you [[Intruder: Time.]] A 15-minute break to further consult. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37211	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 293b. The recess will be approved. We will now continue to work on behalf of the promoter will speak Mr Zeljko Pavić, Vice-President of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Here you go, Mr. Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37212	Dear Chairman, I thank you. The Committee for Information, Information and Media at its 3rd session, held on 2 December 2020, launched the selection procedure of 7 members of the HRT Programme Council for the end of the term of office of 5 members of the Council, Nikola Baketi, Vlahi Bogisic, Ivica Lučić, Robert Markt and Zorislav Lukić, and for the end of the term of office of two other members of the Council, as only 2 members of the Council were elected by the Croatian Parliament on 12 July 2019 instead of 4 members. While five council members are elected to the four-year term, the remaining two council members are elected to office by July 12th, 2023. The Committee stated.../incomprehensible/... established the text of a public call for the selection of 7 members of the HRT Programme Council published in the National Journal and on the website of the Croatian Parliament on 4 December 2020. The deadline for the application was 30 days from the date of publication of the public call and the deadline was 3 January 2021. But as the day was Sunday, the last day of work was transferred to the first day, which was January 4, 2021. At its 6th session, held on 18 February 2021, the Committee considered all candidates received for a public tender. It was found that 11 candidates were received on a public call and that 10 candidates met the requirements of the Public Call and the Law on HRT. It is an unfair candidacy for Miroslav Jaramaz because the statement that he was not in conflict of interest did not confirm with the public notary. In accordance with Article 35(8), The Law on HRT provides the Committee on Information, Information and Media with a list of candidates to the Croatian Parliament, which votes individually on all proposals that meet the conditions for selection and decision, with the majority of the votes cast by all MPs. Those candidates who get the highest number of votes have been elected. Following the debate, the committee reached the next conclusion by a majority of votes with 8 votes, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. The conditions for the selection of 7 members of the HRT Programme Council are laid down by a public invitation and by the Law on HRT are met by the following candidates: 1. Dr. Sc. Nikola Baketa; 2. Dr. Sc. Vlaho Boršić; 3. Cemal Bratić; 4. Dr. Sc. Predrag Harami; 5. Dr. Sc. Ivica Lučić; 6. Zorislav Lukić; 7. (b) Robert Markt; 8. Joško Marusic; 9. Dr. Sc. The edge of Mouseline and 10. Dr. Sc. Ozana Ramljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37213	That's it, thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first replica of Honorary Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37214	Thank you very much. I'm interested in this program council how many times in a year you meet, whether you have this information annually and how much their monthly fee means total per member is irrelevant. Only if it's not their purpose, for example. If we have "Open" tonight, then it's about Split's election, let's say in Split-Dalmatia County in the legal elections of the past, past where he is, for example. My political option was another political option and they don't call anyone. Why? Because the Programme Council is now following the orders of Andrej Plenkovic don't call you exactly. What are the criteria of what they do, how much they receive a monthly fee, i.e. How many times do they meet? Here's a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37215	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37216	How many times a month they meet I really don't know the exact information. One council member's fee is 2,000 kuna a month, that's the information we got today... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, so the monthly fee is 2,000 kuna. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So what makes the conclusion that the Programme Council makes doesn't have to be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37217	That's it. Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37218	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Pavić. I would like to ask you, there is a confusion over the duration of the term of office of these members who will be elected soon. Namely, some of them will be in office for four years, and two of them will be as many as I understood for just two years because of some unadjustment that was inherited. Now I'm wondering if the candidates knew, did it say in the contest that some of them would be elected and that after they were elected to four, and after two, which would be reportedly brought by lot, means that they would raise or draw straws or I don't know what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37219	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37220	So that transitional provision that was stated in the law for the previous council meeting is no longer valid so that it will now vote for seven members of the Programme Council, then it will have to decide on the Programme Council who will be for two years and who will be for four years. Otherwise, the Programme Council has 11 members, of which 11 members are elected by the Parliament, but now there is one problem that not all four are selected in the previous meeting but only two candidates and now we have the problem with the difference of two years. Besides, there's been another problem, I don't think it's a problem, it's legal, so half the council is elected every four years, so one council meeting doesn't choose the whole council ever. That's the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37221	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37222	Thank you. Dear colleague. I would actually suggest that we abolish this Programme Council, and I will also do this in my debate a little bit because you yourself said the Programme Council is making some views, criticism about the program, giving some suggestions, but here's what we read from this debate and no one listens to the committee. So, let's save time and those people that don't even come to that Programme Council, and also to us here what we're going to do is pick these people, and besides that, this is weird for me, we're going to pick seven people, and then someone's going to decide from those seven who's going to be these two, if I understand you correctly, who's going to be those two who's only going to be two years. But mostly the Programme Council does not fulfil its function, which by law should be represented and protected by some public interest monitoring the programme, since these criticisms, proposals, ideas, no one listens to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37223	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37224	So we're talking about public television here, and you realize that actually this Programme Council and the Supervisory Board should protect the public's interests. We have heard on the board that the council when and it worked that their advisers did not always listen and that there is no obligation to listen to them or to work on their proposals, so that I agree with you there is a great questionnaire over our heads, whether there is really a need for that council to exist if no one listens to it. It's similar with the Supervisory Board, we heard that the editor-in-chief worked past the supervisory board's provisions, that he made decisions without consulting the Supervisory Board, so there are more problems. But I think we should insist that there is a Programme Council and that there is a Supervisory Board, but that we should put that into function. There's no point in ending it, but putting it into function.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37225	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dr. Nino Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37226	Mr. Proposer. I'm sorry that you're the promoter because you're not responsible for these things, and I wish that we had motions from the ruling majority to answer these key questions. First, according to the Law on HRT, half of the Programme Council is elected every two years, and here there has been total confusion and nebulism where we now choose at once seven, not from 11 because two elect HRT employees but from these nine chosen now suddenly we choose seven and that part for two years, and part for the full term. Who is to blame for such a mess, and how in the future do we avoid such chaos?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37227	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37228	The problem arises in the previous session, i.e. in the previous competition when not all members of the Programme Council have been selected, but only two fewer members have been selected and this problem has been expanded to this day. We should now settle this in this session and vote on Friday to vote on all those seven people who should be in the Programme Council. By being obliged to do so and as a person who spoke about it on the Information Committee, I will tell everyone that two members of the Programme Council who had not come to the Programme Council have come forward for six months and that they did not allow the Programme Council to be held because there was no quorum. Let's make that clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37229	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Dr. Maria Selak Rasudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37230	It's not your fault, of course, but the only one here we can discuss with you. First, I would like to commend the ruling majority's representation on this important subject, but only two colleagues are here. Well, that presence tells us everything about what HRT is today. Why would that for the ruling majority at all be a theme when it's all their own way there anyway? So, as far as they're concerned, it also shows the role that the Programme Council has. Just like when the Programme Council serves its reports to HRT leaders who are not binding and serve nothing, so the ruling majority is allowed to hold this debate because it is of no benefit in practice. We must urgently change the function of the Programme Council, but God damn it, the function of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37231	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37232	Yeah, I already said that a little while ago in response to the previous replica. I believe that there is no point in abolishing the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board, but we need to put this Programme Council and the Supervisory Board in place in such a way as to have members of the Board, i.e. editor-in-chief and other editors obliged to listen to proposals, reasonable proposals of the Programme Council. If that's not the case, then it really doesn't make sense that we're harassing ourselves here in the Parliament, that we delegate these people, that we end up paying them, and that they're doing no good anyway. I hope we can do it now on Friday when we vote that these people will vote, if we vote all seven or less, we should be a half majority for each candidate. If we can do that, I hope that the Program Council is set up and then we'll think about what to do next, maybe make some kind of initiative to change the law, to supplement the law, so the HRT law can be filled in with things. that is, with articles that would help us make the Programme Council really work. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37233	And the last replica, the respected representative Eric Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37234	Dear counterpart Pavic, I was caught in the ear by the fact that one person I absolutely do not know was not taken into account by her candidacy because her statement that she was not in the conflict of interest was not confirmed by the public notary. Then I went to read the terms of the competition, so I noticed one more word and it's the housekeeper. Namely, if we are the Croatian Parliament and the issue of rationalisation and reduction of red tape, then we must show it as an example to the entire state. In fact, I don't see why a person should have to verify their statement to a public notary, it's enough to make a statement because it goes into public authority anyway. Therefore, it is very easy to implement, and the other thing is a housekeeper. Namely, if under the general law it is a condition that a person is a Croatian citizen, then I will remind you that the Law on Croatian Citizenship shows citizenship by means of a personal identity card, passport and housekeeper. Why just put, better put as a condition of competition evidence for Croatian citizenship. Why does it have to be a housekeeper?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37235	Here's the time. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37236	Here I would like to say here from this pay phone so you all know, that you all hear that the original public call proposal was actually different and that, in fact, in that call, that version that solved the problem and these two members who were now two years old and some of the elements that you may have mentioned now about the documents and this certificate in the public notebook. But we had to change that, and the contest came out this way as it came out, and now we have to respect what it says in the public invitation. So everything mentioned inside must be respected. Those who did not respect their application are not valid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37237	Thank you very much. That'll be all there is to it. I'm opening a debate and we're going to discuss it on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The first one will be discussed on behalf of the club of representatives of MOST, a respected representative of Nino Rasdic. Otherwise, Honorable Representative Fabianic, I had the same objection on one committee when the conditions of the competition are such, unfortunately the form is more important to us than the content. I'm afraid so. Here you go, Dr. Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37238	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. This selection of members of the HRT Programme Council is an opportunity for us to talk in a broader context about what the Programme Council is about, to which it is reduced and I compared it not by chance with the excess figure of the male breast in the folk metaphor, and also to talk a little wider about the state of HRT. Therefore, both on the role of the Supervisory Board and on the figure and action of the Director-General. The infamous 2012 HRT Act was passed by the SDP government, the Kukuriku coalition, contrary to the recommendations made by the European Commission, which was otherwise heard unspeakably in all other years. The Kukuriku coalition then had a comfortable majority in the Assembly and passed a law that concentrated power in the figure of the newly created chief director, which greatly increases the powers and way of his election, which is usually the majority in the Parliament. According to the 2010 law, we did not have a director-in-chief, but rather an HRT administration consisting of a president and two members. Under the old law of the Management President, the two-thirds majority of the joint session appointed the Programme Council and the Croatian Supervisory Board, based on a public tender. The Programme Council and the Supervisory Board also decided to resolve the administration on a proposal by a majority of the members of the Supervisory Board or the Programme Council. This is important to keep in mind, because I'm going to tell you later what happened today and the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. By amending the 2012 law, the director-in-chief replaced the role with increased powers, including the appointment of editors of individual programmes. HRT is thus placed under direct political control. It is unfortunate that this happened at the time with the support of civil society associations including the Croatian Journalist Society. You today are fighting against the monster framework they created and supported themselves, not thinking that the beating has two ends and that it will not be held forever in your left hand or in their close political options. I will repeat once again, that change in the 2012 law abolished all powers of the HRT Programme Council, once the main authorities which managed television and elected administration and editors, and the Pharaohic powers were given to the principal director whose appointment and resolution was placed under the direct control of the Parliament, i.e. the ruling majority that is present today in a marked minority of presence at this point. Then in 2012, Goran Radman, not Grlic Radman, was enthroned, but the other one was extracted from the communist oil mine. The minimal Lustration Act would make it impossible to choose the person who led the TV Zagreb since '87. By the '90s, it was a major regimeal propaganda apparatus. I'll just remind you that the last political immigrant was killed in '89. two years after he was at the head of the HRT and this is being brought to him, Pharaoh's powers are being given in 2012 to bring to some of the standards of the democratic and informative developed Western world of this television. Later, the gentleman was entangled in a conflict of interest, from the parties' fairies in Bled to the business of his own company with HRT, that I would not now return to those stories. SDP's power has fallen, and so has he. Now, despite the announcements that he would change the law, the first HDZ Minister of Resoric Culture said after the fall of the SDP authorities, Hasanbegovic, he was later seen under Plenkovic and Obuljen Koržinek that he was well. And the system of solid political strings for control of the HRT that the SDP has drawn for itself has decided to keep in hands, do not change anything. Instead of Radman Bačić. I repeat not instead of Grlic Radman Branko Bačić, but instead of Goran Radman Kazimir Bačić and continues to do so. The program council is left without any authority. I'm gonna do it again as unnecessary as a man's tit. President of the Programme Council, I'm sorry that Mr. Zdravko Kejo is here on the board very honestly and plastically describing how the Programme Council is not serving anything and how no one listens to him. So it doesn't matter who we miss today and choose because they don't have any role to play. I can't show myself about the program before it's broadcast, and I can only express an opinion that no one is holding. They don't affect the selection of HRT leaders or editors or anyone. So it's a lex Radman we can call Lex Bačić for the last five years anyway. They don't even hold a little to the Supervisory Board, so how will they get to the Programme Council. I already mentioned that a major procedure to switch to the non-profit accounting director of HRT for the sake of knowledge and approval of the Supervisory Board, and after an affair of sexual harassment and abuse that has entertained the public for weeks and brought down anyway the low reputation of the public broadcaster, the Supervisory Board asked the Director to establish an independent investigative body, but he refused. Why? Is he hiding something? Is he covering something up? The day before yesterday, I asked the Committee to conclude that we as a committee are looking for the establishment of such an independent body. 7 members of the ruling majority rejected such a proposal. Let the public conclude whether this has joined the coverts of sexual harassment and abuse on HRT. At the request of the Director-General for Non-profit Accounting, the Ministry of Finance gave a negative opinion that this would complicate accounting. But then something mysterious happened, and they explained that the principal had asked them for a meeting and explained that they had already entered the process and obtained some information program, yet they agreed to it. Who's the one who's been working on it, and why has the Ministry of Finance changed their mind? Why does the ruling majority on the board refuse an independent body on sexual harassment at HRT? Why are there blurry jobs covered? I think the deal's next. You do whatever you want with HRT. I'll remind management of the 7.3 billion kuna. Reregister as appropriate, furate external productions very often unnecessary below each level, work not only past the Supervisory Board but against what the Supervisory Board tells you to do. When an employee is directly charged with sexual abuse, she organises a meeting to be called by this accused abuser. That's how you handle it. And everything's fine. We'll tolerate and cover all of this for you, and even most of the rest of the board at their own expense. And why is that? Well, because you're going to put an information program in our service. Yes, HRT is in the service of the great leader and his clicks on a professionally embarrassing, cartoonal level. For example, entertainment in the nation has already become an issue to guess at which topic will be opened in the days when the difficult affairs of the ruling ones are revealed. For example, the day millions of cash were discovered in the trunk, the theme of the evening was the national football stadium. The most common wildcard better put fig leaf in the Open topic is about what the tourist season will be like. So let's talk about bunny and brook, we're not talking about the problems and affairs of the ruling. People make fun of it, they make fun of you. And then you wonder why commercial foreign-owned television is being beaten by HRT in the field of information program. It's a conclusion. It doesn't matter how we vote, because we're discussing the repeat quality of male breast lactation. Shameful things happen on and around HRT. The long-term solution is to amend the Law on HRT and restore powers to the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. With this majority, it won't be possible, but I can already see you complaining in the near future when you're on this side, just as those who created such a legal framework and director of the Pharaohs on the remote control of the ruling majority are moaning today when they're remotely holding someone else. And in the meantime, in these changes of the SDP's majority in HDZ, and tomorrow, who knows whose fatality is undermined by the quality and reputation of the public RTV service, so if you want both importance and relevance. Paradoxically, maybe one day we'll get a good legal framework on HRT. Only when he becomes completely irrelevant to the control of the electoral body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37239	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37240	The fact that the debate began on the new members of the Programme Council, we injured Article 238. All MPs are made for the second time today by monkeys. And how are they made with monkeys? The report on the work of the Programme Council has not been discussed, and we are talking about who should be its members. That's what happened with the Island Law. This is not an accident, but a deliberate schedule in the Assembly so that we could not have an excessive argument based on the arguments because the report says that the work of the Programme Council is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37241	Time. Thank you very much. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We didn't do the agenda. We're on the agenda, so I have to give you a heads-up. Excuse me. Here you go. ... For what? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] How?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37242	.../Intruder Pavić: May I answer on behalf of the promoter?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37243	You can ask for five minutes on the proposer. Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37244	I just wanted to say that the report was given to the Information Committee, that we looked at it. However, we have concluded that there is no point in discussing it since it has no effect whatsoever. So he had no influence on the work of television, on the program, on anything else. And the answer to Mr. Bull. He asked me how often the meetings of the Programme Council are held? As a rule, these sessions are held once every three months. I don't think there were any more questions about the procedure, and the rest of it, if there's anything else you need to ask me, I'll either get the information or I'll look online. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37245	Thank you. Otherwise, there is an ongoing debate, an initiative to change the Rules of Procedure which unfortunately is not perfect, so I call once again on all clubs to turn to their proposals to improve the work of these sessions. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, a respected representative, Željko Sačić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37246	My colleagues and colleagues, as correctly noted, we are talking about today's new council of what it is, whether it's corn, whether it's complete. A set of circumstances formal-legal led us to the fact that some will have full status, and some will do so in a shorter period. But at the same time we didn't have a chance, I agree with everyone to discuss what the current Programme Council was doing, in which way they carried out their tasks and in general we didn't have this opportunity to hear a little bit more about what our Croatian TV was doing in accordance with its mission, in accordance with its laws and sublaws. Well, we can also as laymen and as Parliamentarians, as citizens, give our own review, here's each person or on behalf of the club. Thus, we Croatian sovereigns will certainly direct one criticism to the work of the Programme Council as it has seen a whole series of healthy reason expectations of Croatian peoples, especially Croatian defenders, Croatian patriots, that Croatian television is indeed the service of all citizens, primarily in the function of the Croatian people, in the implementation, affirmation of all the values of our Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, especially the Declaration of Homeland War, especially on the sacrifices that we Croatian patriots, Croatian warriors, Croatian defenders gave in our country of Croatia. We believe that, with the failure of the current members and members of the Programme Council, there have often been and missed and there have been no appropriate reactions to the neglect and public function of our public service in many cases that, for example, on the day of death, the anniversary of the death of our first Croatian president Dr. Tudjman puts it on the agenda, actually the show on the program of a parody which is the state so that they are offended. Before that, we were witnesses to be offended, belittled under the cover of some artistic freedoms of our victim from the Homeland War, until the honor of the exceptions was recorded by several exceptional documentaries about our military-redarative actions. We bow to all who participated, but that our production did nothing serious about the key things, about the epic of the Croatian sacrifice for Croatian freedom. It could have been far, far more and deliberately or deliberately not seemed, so almost nothing was said. Not to mention how our anniversary ends. Here's yesterday's 30th anniversary of Croatia's struggle for freedom was in Pakrac. It's really one action that was for the first time, all of us who were her participants had the chance, I had this historic opportunity and the honor to be there and for the first time be afraid of what exactly truly faced. Because by that time we officers, the cops thought all the time they'd get rid of it politically, we'd throw tear gas at us, they'd be yelling at us. But our leadership will come up with some compromises we didn't have, especially us perpetrators at lower levels who we knew how to do our police work or run-of-the-mill and fundamentally we didn't have a vision at all, so that, in addition to such a constant relationship with us Croatian police officers, we could shoot someone with a burst. Only the dear God kept us safe, and we were lucky there was no blood to our knees. True today, the manipulator, the liar, the slanderer Djakula who was happily seen was even in Pantovčak and in many prominent places and in public tells me, lying, of course, telling me we had an ambush but we didn't want to, we didn't want to use that force towards Croatian directors, we had mercy. That's not true, liar, liar and bastard. In fact, thank God the transparency was such that our guys from the Omega Police Special Unit came behind them, 13-tro was with 3 machine guns and today the question of who would be alive at that time at 100 meters were supposed to cut us down because we were inexperienced, Boro's village rested on everyone would be a question of what would happen, and they had a plan of at least 50, 60 dead because Kadijević and there were Aco Vasiljevic's forces were supposed to legally after they had not received legal grounds for the exit to the streets to make blood to the world's international public, that's why we're going with the military, with JNA military forces on the streets. That didn't happen. Isn't that interesting for HTV? So who wants to talk about it? Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So who's gonna do this to us if they don't want HTV? We don't have any systems anymore. The program council they have other topics, they don't care as if freedom from the sky has fallen. So I think everyone who's going to be elected or who is, and if they haven't contributed to that truth in the Homeland War didn't deserve a passing grade, we have to criticize them. There they were picking up money or whatever, the privileges, they weren't doing, they were creating a false illusion, they were contributing to HTV one myth that a civil war was being built here, not a homeland defense war, all that HTV dear friends are doing. Even our shows, the very watched shows, I'm not going to call anyone in them now. In the open you have no more right, right than HDZ, the question of how many HDZ trains are and how much is left, right or center, conditionally you have no one, no one exists. When you saw Bulja in the open, when you saw Caroline Vidovic in the Open, when you saw Mr. President Škor somewhere that something like this was out there, that I wasn't talking to some of us Croatian sovereigns, you're not, unfortunately, and you won't. Because the policy of the programming council in which they, it's perfectly natural for them, we're extremists, we're marginals, we're not, we're this one for, for further spread of hate, hostility, which are lies. We advocate the truth that the Croatian people must know. And anyone who isn't on that plan, even if it was HTV and who knows what he has to bear for it, even political. And these are simply expectations of the Croatian people. And we will achieve these expectations with the help of the Croatian people. When we talked about emigration in particular about topics that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, they are of very strong interest and that they are, at the same time, patriotically determined. You have a terrible one crime against the history of Croatia, the father of the country 125th anniversary was to him 2 days ago the church of the Sixth Church of St. Mirko this, who is from the Croatian public and to what extent it is attached to this importance on your television, in our politics. He's not even included in the protocol, and we swear he's the father of the country. How negligent it is. Who contributed to that? How much is the Department of Culture's guilt? How many other institutions you need to worry about? How many of our meetings, how many of our Office presidents? Therefore, these are the sightings of a small man and a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who expects to discuss these historical topics, the everyday life, the sacrifices we gave for the freedom of the Croatian state and to be publicly seen. We deserve that spectrum, so let's make it 5% in the electoral body, make it 6, 10, 15, whatever, but he's got to be participating. And someone has to be so objective as to give opportunity to people who advocate these values, and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, to have the opportunity to make it public, not to self-censorship, censorship and political margin potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37247	Thank you, although the subject of the agenda of the candidate list for the selection of 7 members of the HRT Programme Council has been deliberately allowed to do so because General Sacic spoke very clearly about which topics should be dealt with by the programming council that we will choose if God chooses. And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative, Marijana Puljak, will speak. Here you go, Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37248	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I said, the topic is a list of candidates for the program council, but here I'm going to start my debate here with a few suggestions. One proposal is to abolish the HRT program council. The second proposal is to cancel the subscription to HRT. And let's reform the third one, reorganize HRT as a public service, not a vote by the ruling party. Well, here we go in a row. The HRT program council, what is it and what does it serve? It is therefore one body from the body in the HRT which, by law, represents and protects the public's interest and implements the supervision of the programme, etc. Once the Croatian programme council was appointed, one member of the entire group of institutions, associations, unions, universities, so HAZU, Community of the University, Matica Croatia, Matica of Croatian emigrants, Association of Croatian scribes etc. was appointed to this programme council. etc., pension associations, civil, ecological initiatives, consumer associations, youth, peasant associations etc. Today’s amendments to the 2012 Law So this body has 11 members, 9 members elect a parliament from the ranks of recognised public intellectuals from various areas. According to their political views, they should be left over the centre to right, and the rest of them are selected by creative HRT employees. Since 2012 By amending the law, this body is completely without authority. As we have seen and heard here from the rapporteurs and reading the discussion report with the Information Committee, we therefore conclude that this programme council has no authority whatsoever, nor is anyone particularly excited by any criticism, suggestions, ideas of the programme council, objections to HRT's work. Have you ever heard that the hills were shaking if the programming council said this or what or made any criticism, was there any sanctions or any heads flying or what happened? So there's no veto or other tools available. They didn't meet, here's to answer someone's question when they last met. They haven't met since September. There was an initiative in October let's meet, the crown is, so let's zoom in, let's have various technical options, but the answer of the ruling was so it's all normal why we're going to meet, there's no need. So if the observations of that body are not taken into account, if there are no sanctions when they make any criticism, is the question justified whether the existence of such a body makes sense? So, I suggest we abolish it, initiate amendments to the HRT Act that this body is abolished. We save people time not to come without the need for meetings that are actually not meaningful meetings but debate clubs. Let's save ourselves time here to vote on these candidates for members of the program council and not lie to each other anymore and play no public interest. This will nicely confirm and cement what the HRT has long been, and that is, for a long time now, what is happening with our national tv, and that is that it has long become the party's voice in power. What's the evidence for that? Let's just look at the activities ahead of parliamentary or local elections now when there are increasingly frequent guests of prominent HDZ and government members, not only in the informative but also in the Mozambique's "Good Morning Croatia" shows. You remember the "Croatian Live" show that was abolished because there was allegedly too much politics on HRT and it needs a little more light content. Then, in such light content emissions, politicians, or ministers and members of the government, began to be brought to the table exclusively from the HDZ. Some investigative journalists have also made statistics showing up before the parliamentary elections, so it came out in the media in "Good Morning Croatia" 29 times from March to June, only in the central "Dnevnik" in the form of guest shows with significant minutes of ministers and prime minister performed at least 25 times, in "The Theme of Days" in the same period 30 times. Now here's before the local elections you can see the prime minister walking around Slavonia doing the prime minister's work, but in the end, he shows up with these penguins and what's behind it called HDZ, etc., so direct propaganda. Another interesting thing, who runs the Mosaic program that's being broadcast in the morning and afternoon, it's Mrs. Ana Milic, has something to do with or mother is the spokeswoman for the government, Mark Milic, I guess that makes it easier for her to make these shows. Remember this show by Roman Bolkovic, who was suddenly moved from midnight to half of April on Tuesday at 8 pm, and then at the start of the campaign, the HRT itself admits that it was a propaganda show. There are also business illogicalities, this year "Dora" was transferred from Opatija even though it was not necessary because of epidemiological measures, there could be no audience, so if there was no audience for what the cost, then go to Opatija, why not use HRT studio. The point of view, which measures ratings, is whether these data are relevant in terms of the method of measurement, HRT can sometimes be praised by viewing, however they fail to mention one important thing that these measurements are done in the way of research so-called. AD Scanner who is not relevant as another type of research, AGB Nielsen with whom HRT broke the long-term contract. Therefore, this current way measures household not individuals, which means that the end-user therefore HRT cannot make any relevant analysis from these surveys. The information program, i.e. informative media service, is under the authority of Katarina Periše Čakarun, and her husband is the highly positioned leader of SOA. I do not know a public service in Europe where this would not be unacceptable but not ethically and conflict of interest. Not to mention these scandals we just heard about, the cover-up of sexual abuse, nobody got too excited about it. We had the meetings of the Three Committees, the director of the HRT, if I won't repeat his unfavorable apology here, he is therefore without the knowledge of the National, Supervisory Board has enrolled HRT in the Register of Non-profit Organisations, only that is enough for someone to fly his head. The payment, HRT has 2800 employees and a budget of 1.3 billion kuna. Croatian citizens pay a subscription of 80 kuna, a while ago Bruno Kovacic said dead cold we would work with a monthly fee of 96 kuna wonders. So they're a little bit of a billion, and 300 million, they'd even raise that, so 96 kunas aim. The subscription as an imposition should be lifted for the citizens. This is a state with high taxes, we have enough tax duties to finance public service from these fees, but call the service when it really is a public service. This is now not a public service this is the ruling party's vote. There is no or no show in HRT that critically talks about the current situation except sometimes depending on the guest Sunday in 2 and the Labyrinth programme on HTV4. And this HTV4 programme, by researching the Agency for Electronic Media, is less than RTL cube or that kid's Nickelodeon. So, a channel that's designed as a news channel Pandan N1, unambitious, ineligible, unsightly. HRT, which lives annually from a billion and 300 million kuna not only does it not have a department of investigative journalism but also does not have a research magazine, for example. Check. And of course it's done on purpose. HRT doesn't reveal anything, journalism's been dug up there, the system's successfully turning into some kind of report agency that just says this one said this, this one said that. There is no, therefore, no question, no analysis, no question, no context. Mr. Bačić, Kazimir Bačić, as his first move, returned a contract that was annulled by his predecessor Radman because a million euro was paid annually to him. It's about renting an HRT5 satellite. Did you know that he had HRT5, that's that international channel that no one's looking at. And his excuse for that satellite is like he says in Paraguay, Uruguay doesn't have good internet connections, so we need a satellite for that. So, finally here I have a little bit more, we need HRT as a public service, we need a documentary program, education, science and culture, all of those non-commercial content, but we don't need a parafiscal imposition to finance it. The subscription should be cancelled. We don't need a big machine like this. We need to reorganize it. Only then would the programming council make sense. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37249	Thank you very much, time. I just need to ask you a few questions about Mr. Puljak and I in the future when you talk about penguins and when you gesture behind you, keep in mind that Mr. Bukarica and I are behind you, so please show us in some other direction. And on behalf of the promoter, he asks for the word Mr. Zeljko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37250	Here, just to answer your finding that there was a sexual assault report on HRT without anyone responding. We had a session of 3 committees and at the meeting of those 3 committees we heard actually all, Mr. Director was online so he was in his house and he said there was no sexual violence in HRT. After that, we received a number of sexual violence reports. And at the next meeting of the Information Committee, we asked the question of what's actually going on here, is there a procedure going on? We also received a written reply from Mr. Director that he was conducting investigations. However, the fact is that none of the four members who can receive reports of violence have received a single application. In fact, by looking at the formal legal applications, they were actually going the other way. Since they did not receive these applications, we have concluded on the board that they may not be people to whom one wants to be entrusted by members of the collective, so we have suggested that an independent commission be established to determine whether there is violence or there is no violence. However, when we put that conclusion to the vote, that conclusion did not go away. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37251	Thank you very much. You have several replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37252	Thank you very much. When we talk about an esteemed colleague about the programming council, I think it would be nice for HRT's director to at least be present here, so someone from the Ministry of Culture, a representative of the government to be someone, we don't tell ourselves. And there's a great public interest in this public service, so I'd like to refer it to you as a proposer, of course, as well as to the president, and I'd like to ask here and send a message to continue this in the morning because it's of great interest. This is not transmitted by anyone, we're talking to ourselves, there's no HRT representative. I think it would be good for us to continue this important topic in the morning when the public interest of our citizens, the media, is to hear what we're talking about. This is how it got us locked up like we're in a camp, we're talking to each other, we're talking to each other, we're talking to a public camp, I mean, this is a Croatian assembly, an honorary home, but we're closed from the public, and we're mostly talking to ourselves, and it's sad that HTV4 doesn't carry all of this. in public service. [[Intruder: Time.]] That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37253	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37254	I think with that request and that request we should address the chairman, so I don't have an impact on that. And I'd like to respond to your findings that you should be head director here. The director-in-chief will be here when there will be a report on HRT's work, but again to inform you we asked that when will be the HRT report that, apart from the head of the plenary session, the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the programme council will come. However, the proposal was also rejected so that only the editor-in-chief would be at the report's submission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37255	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative Bojan Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37256	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's counterpart Pavić, I'd like you to refer to something that my colleague Puljak mentioned in her debate, and as far as ratings are concerned. In fact, a colleague noticed well that HRT broke the contract with AGB Nielsen. They did so by justifying their time in the previous assembly meeting by saying that their figures, this research simply methodologically cannot guess. Namely, the figures were miserablely small and miserablely small and we are now to understand each other, but were there words on the board during the debate? So, HRT, if it really Fringes ratings or uses a methodology that could make their ratings figures look better, then it's just another one in a series of problems that this television has. Was that what it was about?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37257	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37258	Yes, on the board we also talked about ratings, here are colleagues and colleagues who were on the board on both the left and right, and they know that we asked the director where the information that HRT has the highest ratings. Which is actually not true because we had information that is RTL's viewership, which is the ratings of NOVA or other national televisions, but we didn't get answers from where he got those numbers, who was doing that analysis and who was doing the opinion exam, so I really don't know where that information was in the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37259	Thank you very much. And another replica, the esteemed representative Mariana Puljak, here you are, ma'am. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37260	I just wanted to comment this part of the cover-up of cases of sexual violence on HRT and on how they're willing to investigate it. You said well, so they did not accept independent research or an independent body to which these persons would apply, and they also organized a meeting where they faced the victim and the perpetrator. This is absolutely unacceptable, inadmissible, not at that meeting was Mr. Director but he knows about the meeting and the committee when we confronted him with these issues, at the meeting of the three committees, he simply avoided the answer to that question. So much for not covering up cases of sexual violence on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37261	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37262	That finding you just said, that's what we heard all of us on that committee, or that session of the three committees. Such a finding was also made on our Information Committee, and we said that that is why we should and should establish this independent commission that would determine whether there is really some kind of violence or there is no such violence. We regret that this has not been voted upon, we regret that it has not been voted that the representatives of the Judicial Council, or the chairman of the Programme Council and the chairman of the Supervisory Board, come here because this would greatly facilitate our debate since we will most likely have a debate on HRT's work, hear many times that this response can only be given by people who are on the programming board or are on the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37263	Thank you very much. Let's move forward with the debate, what might be important to note is that today we are discussing a list of candidates for the selection of 7 members of the HRT programme council whose biographies should be available to you, you are deliberately discussing the content of HRT broadcasting, which is not at the point of the explicate agenda, but here, I am playing because this can be understood, we are discussing the programming council. Dear Mr. Glavasevic, you will share your time with Mr. Matul. Here you are, dear Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37264	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. If we're right on behalf of the club we're looking for a break today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37265	You have, why not?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37266	We do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37267	.../Intruder Škoro: If you don't, I give you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37268	Mr. Vice President, I ask you to grant us a 10-minute recess so that the representatives of the opposition clubs can agree to continue to participate in this debate, given the fact that, as the colleagues in the Parliament have said, HRT does not convey this debate. And we will propose that our representative, on behalf of our club, withdraw from the debate in order to end this debate if HRT does not transfer the debate on HRT in the Croatian Parliament, because it is the programming council that should represent the public on behalf of the public. Therefore, since there is no chairman of the board, we do not want as an opposition club to participate and be accomplices to HRT in hiding what MPs have to say about them. Therefore, please grant us a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37269	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Glavasevic, please wait 10 minutes, I'll grant a break of 10 minutes and we'll continue at 17 hours and 32 minutes. Thank you. It's 5:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37270	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.32 HOURS]] Do you need a break or something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37271	Dear Chairman, here we are looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and Glass Club. We reiterate the request here is a united opposition that this debate on the HRT Programme Council must also be transmitted by HRT. I think the request has already been sent to them, so until the HRT starts on its 4th program to transmit this session we are united in the idea of not continuing to debate here. So, I'm looking for a break in the time of 20 minutes and I hope that in that time HRT will find it appropriate for Croatia's citizens to share this debate on the state of play in HRT and on the selection of candidates for the HRT Programme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37272	Thank you very much. I can only tell you my personal opinion that I think they should share it. But neither I nor you can order it, I hope they understand the message. Next to the point of our Rules of Procedure 239b. I can't give a break of 20 minutes, I can give it 5 minutes, so maybe someone else will ask for 5 minutes later, here it is, so here's the respected representative, Boric, will also be looking on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37273	Thank you very much, Vice President. And I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to discuss this emerging situation. In fact, we had a nice start in the debate and nothing was disputed until apparently colleagues from their own political or particular interests extended the debate to the programme council's work report. So we have 11 candidates here, 10 of whom I understand the conditions, and we should discuss them with their résumés and all that they satisfy or do not satisfy to be members of the programming council. However, as it came out of the topic chairing it, the Rules of Procedure of Article 232 clearly states what to say, and then the possibility of asking HRT to pass it on because they should hear what they are looking at, what they are not looking at, what is nice about them on television, which is not, etc. I don't think it's the subject of today's agenda, and I think we should continue this debate like we all do, but the subject is quite something else than what they want. And we still have a situation where he wants to call himself out of the assembly I don't know HRT. I haven't been involved in these situations many times. This is my first time. I know that HRT transfers the daily session from 9.30 to 13.30, that discussions are carried when they are in order, on the agenda of the state budget, the rebalancing of the state budget, etc., points of interest for all I guess not, that some other situations were probably transmitted which were obviously then of interest to the public, but now the members of the opposition clubs have assessed what it is to the public and since they obviously do not know the promoter in some way perhaps even blackmailing us with it if not our own, then we need to interrupt this debate. I don't think it's the task of our parliamentary representatives, but to discuss the subject of whoever liked it or didn't like it. And there will be a topic to discuss what HRT is or isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37274	Thank you very much, of course I'll approve this break for you. Here's my colleague, Puljak, who's done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37275	Article 238, which implies that we represent some particular interests and not the interests of citizens, has been injured. It is in the interest of the citizens to hear what we are discussing here on the subject of the HRT Programme Council. So we're talking about the election of members of that council, but also the work of that council and the status of the HRT in general. So it's an opportunity for the citizens to hear it. And that's what we want... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37276	Thank you very much, so it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I must give you a warning, of course. Representative Bulj also requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37277	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37278	And I'm sorry you can't go on, yes, the Honorable Vice President of the House and the Representative. All right, then go ahead. [[Intruder: It was a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] [[Intruder: So you did not lift the table.]] [[/Intruder: What do you mean, I'm a smoker?]] [[Intruder: Okay, breach of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Boric, injured Article 238, because he told a series of lies. This is not a camp, this is about HRT and the public, this HRT censors the Croatian Parliament, and it is an obligation to transfer this because it is about the public service that our citizens are paying for. And some citizens pay who will represent them in a programming council that is otherwise self-inflicted, and I know that political influence is important to you, but that the assembly censors HRT and public service is a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37280	Thank you very much, you know that it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, therefore you already have one reminder I must base Article 240(1) on saying a reminder by taking away words, it is a theoretical matter, but so it is according to the Rules of Procedure. The vice president of the assembly, Honored Representative Škoro, probably called for a recess.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The colleagues and colleagues, therefore, of course the Croatian Parliament neither has a mandate, nor has any legal basis to request the transfer of the session. It's the discretionary right of the editor-in-chief and the HRT program, and I won't ask for it. However, what I will insist on is respecting the business provisions when it comes to conducting discussions on this point where we should also have the presence of the proposing representatives while at this point, as far as I see it, we do not have the conditions to carry out further discussions on this agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I think we should discuss this, so I'm asking for a five-minute recess, so if we can find a promoter or his representative, well, if we don't have any further conditions to continue the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37282	Thank you very much. Uh, what's the matter with my colleague, Boric?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37283	Art. 232, 238, so we have a situation I've announced. So the colleagues in the opposition obviously took advantage of a certain situation, I guess from their own interests, even ordered that a session be transferred first thing tomorrow morning, a follow-up no, this point and then that the public interest would be satisfied. I think it's one again in some way that we have to look at the way we look at HDZ, which is that changes are being misused by the SDP Club in 2012. which led the programming council to this level, so that this same club would now withdraw its representative as a proposing and speak what we need to or should not do. I think it's embarrassing both for that club and for the SDP, but then for the opposition that agreed with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37284	Well, I don't think I've been hurt by the Rules of Procedure, so you've got to get a warning, too. This esteemed representative Sacic called for a break if I understand that, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37285	Dear Chairman, also on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we support this initiative, all of us from the opposition as uniquely as I see it to approve a five-minute break in order to create conditions for a quality debate in a democratic open spirit, and above all to fulfil that fundamental obligation to be ahead of us and a representative of the promoters that we do not speak to ourselves, which is quite acceptable to you as I have seen from your discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37286	It's a nice wave. Of course I'll grant you this break. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not like this, of course how well I've calculated, we've got four breaks per 5 minutes, so we'll give it a 20-minute break. As for what the esteemed vice president said, I agree with his part absolutely, but I cannot agree with the other, so I totally agree that this one should really pass on the session, and unfortunately we cannot order HRT this, we do not have that mandate, we do not have that power, that power. This one, and on the other hand, I can't agree with that because the Rules of Procedure don't say that there's a proposer here. A promoter anywhere, nowhere in the Rules of Procedure will be found to be present here. So it's not in the Rules of Procedure, is it? Uh, it would be okay to be of course and it's kind of a good habit to be here, but it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure that it has to be. But anyway, we'll take a break like we said, see you at 6:00 and 5:00. It's 5:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 18:05 A.M.]] The first will be on behalf of the Green-Left bloc, please welcome the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37288	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37289	Which part of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37290	Vice President, a point that speaks of the motionaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37291	What point is that, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37292	The 226th seems to me, there are no proposing representatives which is less important and the HRT does not convey the debate itself, which is another kind of censorship on the public service. I therefore propose that the debate continue tomorrow afternoon when HRT will be able to pass on what little MPs think about them, and if the debate continues, the SDP representatives will neither participate in debates on behalf of the club nor in individual debates, we reserve the right eventually if we are exposed to unnecessary criticism to return to the final debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37293	Thank you very much. I must first conclude that, of course, the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, so you are being warned. The article you called for is the establishment and addition of the agenda, therefore it has absolutely nothing to do with what you have called for. And as I said no matter what I think, and I made it clear what I think about it, we can't even order HRT to carry anything or not to carry anything, whatever I or any of us are thinking here. Therefore, we will continue with our debate, so the first one will speak to the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic on behalf of the Green-Left bloc. Here you are, the respected representative Raspoudic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the point of injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37294	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, paragraph 238. I think that we are all being reduced as representatives at this time that HRT as a public broadcaster who has a specialized 4th program informatively does not transfer the session of the Assembly at which the HRT Programme Council is concerned, and therefore the wider context of HRT's work. It's also scandalous that there are no proposings here to discuss without a proposing how he can be manifested about what we're saying. And we, too, at the Bridge Club, will not go against the Rules of Procedure of HS and be in a session where there are no proposings. So, I suggest that the session be transferred for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37295	So thank you very much. It's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, no one has offended anyone here, that's one thing. Secondly, what you have called to be somewhere in the Rules of Procedure you have not defined where it says that it must be the Proposer, it does not exist anywhere in the Rules of Procedure. It was and it was in principle a good practice, it would be good if it were, but it doesn't say anywhere it has to be like that. I therefore estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, and unfortunately I have to give you a warning. Someone also raised their hand like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37296	I've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37297	Here you go, dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37298	Art. 232. The speaker can only talk about the subject under discussion. Not only can we not talk about the topic under discussion but we cannot talk about the subject at all because for the second time today in the Assembly we are talking about the subject without having discussed the report on the work of the Programme Council which is a prerequisite for discussions on the members of the Programme Council. This debate is being sabotaged if the report, which was not on the agenda, clearly states that the Programme Council is unable to carry out its work properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37299	Well, of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately I'm your foundation. In 240th century, I have to make a note of taking away words, a theoretical thing again, but you already have one warning, so here's the thing. The Honorable representative Dretar has a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37300	Dear academic, one of the very important articles of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia has been injured, 256, indent 6, point b, I just want to warn on behalf of all the MPs of the Homeland Movement Club that we really have the consent of all the opposition parties and I know you can't order anyone to pass on any content, but obviously you can't pass on any content. [[Intruder Reiner: You can give it to me please.]] Thank you. And we'll back off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37301	Thank you very much. Of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've called on an article that talks about electronic voting just so you know, what nonsense you've been invited to. And I must give you a warning of course, and as far as I'm concerned, you may withdraw or not withdraw it is of course your free will whether you will participate in the work of the Parliament or not to participate in the work of the Parliament. Representative Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37302	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The entire Rules of Procedure has been injured, no proposings, no public opinion. HTV censors HS and this is allowed by this majority in the Parliament, you have allowed HRT to censor HS public service, which we are discussing today about the Programme Council, about people who are going to bring an alleged program, and the program is already being done without them. This is more than embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37303	Comrade Bulj, it is shameful and knowingly to violate the Rules of Procedure, based on Article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37304	.../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37305	I'm asking you to get off the phone. Based on an article. 241st century 1st, I give you a measure of distance from the session. My colleague Bulj, I am the foundation of the article. In 241st century 3, I give you a measure of distance from the double-term session. Are we done with all this now? A colleague, yeah, a respected representative of Bencic, a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37306	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club because of the new situation. So I repeat the arguments before, it is about a situation where one of the key debates on HRT and the body that should actually ensure what the Assembly is doing to monitor the HRT, which is to meet the public, yes, that the HRT programme fulfils the public interest and that it takes care of the protection of public interest in that programme. The debate on this body will pass without the presence of HRT and without the transmission of the debate by HRT. The debate is not likely to be transmitted on purpose because it is known that a number of criticisms will be made in the way the HRT function and the role of the assembly in this operation, but also the dysfunction of the HRT Act, which was unfortunately adopted in 2012. completely decapitated and disproved the programming council and its any role. So again, we're looking for a break to consult on this because we don't think it makes any sense to discuss HRT's candidates for the programme council in a situation where even this debate, which is really of public interest to something called public service, doesn't follow HRT. So, please grant us a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37307	Of course I'll grant you a break, it's already been a 20-minute break, so I'll do it in accordance with article. 239.b. We'll keep working. It's been 20 minutes to consult right now and everyone's around, about it. I told you my personal point of view, I personally think they should pass it on, but you know very well that neither I, nor you, nor any of us can order them to carry anything or not. So here we are in a situation where we can and must discuss candidates for the selection of the programme council that will then oversee this HRT, yes. This one and that's our job, and it would be our turn to do it. Dear Representative Selak, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, what was injured in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37308	Art. 238. Due to the systematic demeaning of parliamentary representatives today, we have neither discussed the report nor anyone here on behalf of the promoter nor the HRT conveys an important session at which his programme is discussed, but also the key problem of sexual harassment at the HRT Institute of Representatives of the Most will not continue its participation in this debate and we are leaving this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37309	All right, no broken Rules of Procedure. Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. Thank you very much. Honorable representative William Matul, what was he violated in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37310	I thank the chairman. He's been injured. 283, I'm sorry, I can't right now, now I'm stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37311	This is anti-democracy and... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37312	Comrade Bulj, I beg you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37313	I'm asking you nicely, I'm really rudely prevented right now in speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37314	... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37315	I apologize to you, but unfortunately there are people who have no respect for decency, no order, nothing in this, no Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37316	Yeah, well, but it's like, uh, you're like, uh, esteemed vice president, and you owe this...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37317	Sure, here, here, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37318	Just please just give me time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37319	Please, Reverend Matula, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37320	Thank you. So, he's injured. 283, which states, among other things, the Public Labour Regulation of Working Bodys, shall be governed by, inter alia, direct radio and television transmissions of the course of the sittings. It's in the Rules of Procedure, this is very clearly written. The point is that we are, and here are the witnesses who have additionally come to your representatives asking for a council hearing and about the programming reports that are not given here. Here's all the reasons because there's such a problem with this principalship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37321	Thank you very much. This one can only tell you what I said before that I personally believe that HRT should carry it, but like you and all of us together, we can't order them not to carry anything or to carry anything. Unfortunately, that's the situation, or fortunately, I don't know, it's a matter of democracy, this and independent institutions. So here's the situation. Dear Representative Glavasevic. Dear Representative Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37322	Thank you very much, Vice President. Art. We're talking about moving away from the session, so you said Mr. Bulju means moving away from the session, he's still sitting here, I'm asking you to give a break until people, he doesn't move out of this assembly because he behaves inappropriately in this house and in a way that he does whatever he thinks he should do here. There are some of us who want to debate, and if they don't have a debate, let them go out and that's their right, and we don't want to influence it, but we don't want to be blackmailed by some kind of thinking that they want at some point. That's not what I want, and I'm asking for it to be done and...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37323	You Croatian people are blackmailing. He can't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37324	You are, you are right fellow Boric and I will now give a break of 10 minutes and I will ask, I will ask a very polite and very nice colleague of Bulja to leave the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37325	Well, the people chose me here, so you can't treat me like shit. Em usurp the people's information, usurp the people that HRT is being debated for...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37326	I'm not throwing you out for nothing but for rudeness, rampage and persistent violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37327	You're the one who's mad and you're doing whatever you want. You're choking the Rules of Procedure, you're suffocating democracy, you're suffocating the will of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37328	I'll give you 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37329	You favor all but the people who choose us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37330	Yeah, yeah, I gave a break, I gave a break... But it's a break, I've already declared a break, so we'll do it afterwards. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Comrade Bull, I beg you nicely, leave the hall, lots of circuses. It's 6:19 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.30 HOURS]] Dear MP Vidovic Kristo has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Can I get you anything that's been hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37332	Therefore, the Rules of Procedure in Articles 32 and 14, the Constitution determines how the government originates from the people, and the power is being exercised through us parliamentary representatives. And you, Mr. Chairman, are also demeaning the Croatian people and the Croatian Constitution, and you have no right to do so. Don't do what you do because one day you'll be ashamed of this. Namely, this is not your publicist organization called HDZ, and perhaps it should be called the more accurate Yugoslav dictatorial community. The Croatian Parliament is obliged to oversee the bodies it appoints, so the democratic postulate is obviously foreign.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37333	Thank you, well-respected representative Kristo. I won't return the insults you sent me because I don't want to go down to that level, absolutely. So let this one remain on your cheek for what you said. We're moving on from work to club and counsel. Since I opened the debate first, the respected representatives Glavasevic and Matula will speak on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. They are not lost to the right to speak, so they will then address us on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37334	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are today discussing, the main topic of our list of candidates for the selection of 7 members of the HRT Programme Council, and I am sorry that the debate in whose focus should have been the HRT Programme Council extended to various other topics among which some of them, I mean topics and in speech modes, the way they are held, the way they behave in this high home is not the place. But let's get back to the subject. The work of the HRT Programme Council as well as the number of its members and the way of their election is regulated by the Law on HRT, and I will remind you that there is no colleague here on my left. The Law on HRT was passed in 2012 and it is one of the few laws, if not the only one that was passed by consensus. In accordance with that law, so when I say no to consensus, you understand what I'm talking about, and then perhaps even clearer why my colleague on my left isn't in the assembly today. Probably to avoid criticism among other things and their expense. However, in accordance with the Law on HRT, the HRT Programme Council so prescribes representation and enlargement, protects the public's interest by implementing supervision, programmes and improving radio and audiovisual programmes, gives its opinion on the proposal for the HRT work programme and what is important to monitor the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the law and contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these articles of law that have been formulated in this way are not exactly the programming council so demoted and it is not quite true that the programme council has absolutely no role anymore. I would like to remind you that according to the law of the Croatian Council, there are 11 members, of whom 9 members are elected by the Croatian Parliament, and the other 2 members of the Council are elected and resolved by journalists or other Croatian employees who are creatively involved in the creation of the programme in the manner provided for by the Law on HRT and the Statute of the HRT. We already know all of us, I will only briefly repeat that the selection of members of the council is carried out on the basis of a public call, members of the council are elected by the Croatian Parliament, and the procedure for calling the public and setting out criteria is carried out by the Committee on Information, Information and Media and, after the completion of the competitions, the Committee is considering all the proposals submitted, establishing the validity of all proposals and the list of candidates, so it therefore delivers to the assembly which then makes the choice. And right now we're in a position to have a list of candidates in front of us. And I'll just remind you that a public call has been issued given the fact that the term of office expires for five members of the programming council. The public invitation was published on 4 December 2020 and was announced for the selection of a total of 7 members, given the fact that only two members were appointed in the last appointment in July 2019, the Croatian Parliament instead of 4 members, precisely because of the failure to reach consensus and agreement with colleagues from the opposition. So, according to the list of candidates, there are 11 valid candidates, so I'm going to count them, so Mr. Josko Marusic, Dr. Sc. Predrag Harami, Prof. Dr. Ivica Mischulin, Robert Markt, Dr. Dr. Ozana Ramljak, Vlaho Bogisic, Zorislav Lukić, Djamal Bratić, dr.sc. Miroslav Jarmas, Dr. Sc. Nikola Baketta and Dr. Sc. The edge of Lucic. All details of their professional careers have been provided to us in the materials prepared for this session of the Assembly and certainly that the HDZ Representatives' Club will have its proposals, have its candidates and, of course, will, in accordance with the agreement between the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority, highlight its members, and, of course, the candidates will be voted upon when the conditions are met, I suppose, this Friday. What I think is quite important to emphasise is that it is important to fill in the remaining seven members of the Programme Council because it must be in office first of all because the Programme Council represents and protects the public interest in a way that implements the monitoring of the programme and promotes the radio and audiovisual programme, and of course this does not only apply to television that is somehow always focused when we talk about HRT but also other audiovisual and media services performed by HRT. It was a question of how often the council would meet, usually in accordance with the HRT Act every three months. There have been previous discussions of objections and harsh criticism that the council did not meet regularly. If you look at the Programme Council website on which you have, among other things, information on holding sessions with the agendas of the Programme Council, with communications etc., you will see that in 2020. The Programme Council held three meetings in 2019. 6 sessions, 2018 7 sessions, 2017 six sessions, etc. So we can't exactly stick to the thesis that the sessions aren't being held, that they might be even better and, of course, there's still room for improvement and we can and should talk about it, and among other things with the members of the council, or with the President of the Programme Council, among other things, on the parent board. So, why do we care about the full composition of HRT? First of all, because it must first and foremost control the fulfilment of the programming principles prescribed by the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it should certainly be in the interest for the representatives to meet these programme principles and everything prescribed by the contract in full terms. And I'll remind you, let's not forget that HRT, regardless of the numerous criticisms some of which are founded, and some of the gods and not whether it has one added value that other commercial televisions don't have. Of course, here I am not reducing the importance of commercial television, and what is added value to HRT is primarily its educational, scientific, cultural and general social contribution and certainly the role of HRT which is defined by the contract already mentioned between HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What I need to further emphasise is that all of us, all MPs, are really in the interest that HRT should be primarily the public service of our citizens in the full sense of that word and I am sorry that our colleagues have left this session. But I have to point out, let's not forget that some of the MPs who were present here today were sitting here with the help of HRT built their professional careers and had somehow taken up their public space with the help of HRT. So let's not be hypocritical and let's not worry about the thesis that there is no public interest and that HRT is not a public service but was read by the ruling party, it is simply a thesis that does not stand. I will remind myself that there are also information and political emissions on HRT such as "Open", "Poligraph", "In the first network" that are broadcast on radio and broadcast on television. There are shows of different "Sunday at 2" profiles that are on the team, "Labirint", etc., etc. Therefore, it is not The truth is, there's no show and there's no defense show. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] I'll just remind you before the end that Saturday in a regular week of 2008's "Veterans of Peace" show dedicated to Croatian defenders. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] And it is not true that Croatian defenders, as a fellow general said, do not have treatment on HRT. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37335	Thank you very much. The next is the House Movement Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Stephen Nikola BArtulica will speak. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Now we're going to individual debates. First came the honored representative of Anka Dark Taritash. She's gone. She's losing her right to speak. The following came the honorary representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo. She's gone. She's losing her right to speak. So came MP Maria Puljak. She's gone. She's losing her right to speak. A respected representative, Nino Rasdic, also called. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. A respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic, also called. She's gone. She's losing her right to speak. But there is therefore a respected representative of Josip Boric, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37336	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here we witness an act that apparently occurred during the debate. We had a nice start to discuss the list of candidates for the selection of 7 members of the HRT programme council, we had a proposal, we had the opposition and the ruling representatives here and it was all nice until the representative also came out of one club out of the opposition, who then decided to transfer all the force of his arguments to another party from the opposition, it was the SDP that passed the Law on HRT in 2012, and in a way I remember it, that they had forced the law they thought was good at that time without wanting to consult with anyone then from the opposition, given that by then these laws were adopted by one agreement, and the parties in power and parties from the opposition and that it was then creating some peace but also certain moments in which they were all more or less satisfied with what they thought they should have achieved through their political a say, interests. However, in 2012, this was interrupted and the programme council was then given the role it still plays today. And when Mr. Rasdic attacked a colleague from the SDP that it was their law and that they should defend him in some way, then in some way they changed their relationship and the same opposition that came here with the desire to discuss the members of the programming council, first of all they split up to find that common moment at the moment when they needed to tear something down in a way that they started blackmailing, we have a member who's a proposing, so if he's not going to be, we won't be discussing it, and then they figured out they could call or call HRT here from the assembly. I'm not recording it, here's how long I've been here, and that's a long time, that the MPs have given themselves a role to cheer or call editors on HRT and that they're asking to get involved right now when they want to talk about exactly that HRT. Of course, before that were the salves of insults and everything else precisely to that same public service which obviously doesn't fit them because all day long they're at that public service, open any information program, from morning to night, always a few of them sit on these shows and talk neatly about everything that bothers them in this country but of course all other problems or any other television, I think they make a statement more than any other person I know, an option in any country of the world. They make such a daily statement that they can conclude that they are censored, that not exactly what they wanted to publish has not been published. And then the debate went the wrong way because they had a fight first and then they found a common denominator for why they should get out of this assembly and they even tried and win this assembly if you noticed at one point because that's their natural right. Unfortunately, Croatian citizens, and our sessions are public, are broadcast by parliamentary television, I know that it is not available to everyone, but those who are watching must know that they are clearly trying to lead the state out of opposition and would obviously lead the public service out of opposition. They would edit the program and create emissions at their will and will, they would call on these shows guests who were at their will and measure. And that's what we have today from this opposition that's offered to run this country tomorrow, not respecting first and foremost this very home they swear to, not respecting the Rules of Procedure that they often call upon. I believe that this has really exceeded the measure of good taste today, and I am not surprised at parties like the Bridge or these We can't or any other one, but to the SDP who is the author of this law that is being handled so that today they are the ones who have adapted themselves to such calls to get out of this assembly. These days we're hearing that we don't have to follow the laws in any way. Obviously, this is another law where law and procedure are not to be respected. It's probably obvious they've come to an end and they don't know what to do with themselves anymore. Their policies don't exist, their achievements don't exist, there's only what we have, individual incidents in the assembly that should obviously interest our public. What we're doing is we're trying to enforce the law, we're holding normal sessions of this House, and that's what we're going to do because it's our job. That's how we're going to choose these seven members of the program council.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37337	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37338	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In 2012, a consensus that was created in 2010, was interrupted, and even the European Commission warned about these shortcomings, but here, this law is now passed and under this law there should be no problem if a decision was taken on HRT which will be passed, which will not or during what time period, however, seems to be that some today, although they themselves have passed such a law. Secondly, we also have a Rules of Procedure, Art. 233., the promoter may of course not have to, but can speak at the beginning of the debate, it is also done, later if he does not want to participate anymore, of course, he cannot be forced but the debate goes on. So my question is, where is the substance problem to end this debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37339	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37340	Thank you very much, Comrade Stier. So the substance problem was in 2012 in which in some way he moderated and fellow Bauk who represented here today represented this coalition of destroyers of everything and everything that should be out now because they were not respected enough and that HRT was not following them enough in this debate where they intended to speak against this HRT because they were not well there. We heard a colleague that they're never on TV, here's a show tonight, her husband is on the show tonight, and of course, it's all going to be what they say, censored or not power comes in, etc., which is all false, false. And they're trying to convince us that we all have to act the same way, and we witnessed both their authorities and the work of that very HRT during that period, there were no situations like this. You're never like HDZ. We never let those situations happen as much as we thought they were doing wrong. That's what came for them today and they're running away from it, they're running away.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37341	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37342	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, dear colleague Boric, I really thank you from your heart for the wonderful chronology that you have actually reminded us of how this whole story has come to be. It is something that should be repeated often because it is very, very often used on the other side of the assembly. Others keep saying that it must not affect the program, that it must not impose its will, they attribute it as this side of the assembly. Isn't this exactly the procedure they want to convey this against the program, if it isn't the same way of affecting the programme council or the programme which is the choice and that is little, that you try to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37343	Thank you very much. My colleague, I'm saying that the problem with them is because they obviously weren't even aware of what they were doing right now. I think that how that debate went down then I say it came out in the other direction the moment MOST attacked the SDP, which didn't stop them from going out together because they're working together in all forms, at all levels they're going to cooperate and that's what we're talking about all the time. That it's an obviously silent coalition that's here acting the way they think it should. Now let's imagine in one of their draft laws that I can put on the agenda at any time of the day and night that they're being discussed in the same way. They have their proposer and there is no transfer of public service or HRT. They can say at that moment we are retreating do not transfer us and we will continue when we want because we are those proposings and we can moderate the subject as we wish. If that's the task of this assembly, and the citizens need to know, it's not our job. And they can't edit public services here from the assembly at least for me. If that's what they want, then we heard them say it out loud today, but it's not exactly what they want. Smart. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37344	The next replica is the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37345	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I will refer to that part of your presentation where you said that due to this today's behaviour, you are not surprised at other smaller parties, when I say to the smaller ones, I mean not to be demeaning but to the parties that are the first time in this assembly, and that you are amazed at the SDP. I'm not surprised at the SDP. I am not surprised at the SDP at all, and we all agree, and here you said that it was precisely the SDP in 2012 that passed the HRT Act which was missing, which had objections and remarks from the EU Commission which they did not accept at all, and in the end the law was passed not consensually and this is what came today for payment and comes for payment. Among other things, the work and authority of the HRT programme council itself. And now, of course, they're running away from it. They ran away today, too. And that's visible. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37346	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37347	Thank you very much, colleague Bedekovic. They did it saying it made sense, not for no reason because they started to argue I think it was more or less all right. And the debate on candidates is not a debate on the programme council's report and it will come on the agenda. But they thought that they could expand the subject and then they started talking or saying what they liked about the service, which is not good, why they're not doing well, etc., but mostly from some of their own things that I said particular interests because they obviously wanted some sort of show for the citizens because they think they can do it. And that's allowed, but within some limits that both the Rules of Procedure and everything else we do here. What they're doing, colleague Bauk who was minister in that government in 2012 who raised his hand for it here, who brought the programming council to that level, he now says we're not going to participate anymore because we're asking that service to follow us whenever we want, that we talk about what we want in that assembly and that we're saying what we want. Let them speak, but according to what it says in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37348	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Totgergelia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37349	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, Boric, you said well that it was a single play, a game of opposition where they want to draw attention to themselves. You say it's a secret coalition, I'd even call it a black red coalition that I see very well in my county where both SDP and MOST and everyone gathered around Damir Byce and he represents them all together. So I think it's an open coalition that will be shown in these local elections that are coming to us. But to get back to this one contradiction if someone wants to fix something then they'll argue and contribute that this council is better through the debate, and they don't say we want to do better, but we'll do it by not participating in the debate, we'll boycott, we'll leave, if they won't do what we want then we won't talk about anything else, we'll leave the assembly and show the boycott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37350	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37351	Thank you very much. My colleague, we expected to discuss these 10 names, their résumés, all of them delivered, to see what's wrong or wrong, whether one of them satisfies or doesn't satisfy some of our preferences or what we think about each of them and that this debate will go in that direction. It spread and led to the coalition that first set up the Most and the SDP together coming out with the help of everyone else. And I even thought it would last, to the end, that no one from that coalition of destroyers would show up here in the assembly, they couldn't stand it. Why? Because they know their power of argument doesn't exist in this case at all. So it doesn't exist. This is one staged case that should have integrated the obvious part of the public or satisfied for them in some segments of their policies that they have. They're destroying, certain channels promote them, etc., but in fact, at the very heart of the problem, they didn't do anything. And that is why we will do what is our task as a majority, which is to maintain the work of this assembly within the frameworks. The Rules of Procedure and to do as prescribed. [[Thank you very much.]] And let them do whatever they will, and the people see all things, and the people know all things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37352	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Sandra Bencic, who has not, is losing the right to debate, so the next individual debate is the respected representative Eric Fabianic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And now, finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37353	Representatives of the parliamentary opposition did not participate in this debate in protesting the fact that HRT is not transferring the debate on HRT because there could be criticism about HRT's work, very logically, nor do they want to listen to criticism about HRT's work, and therefore we simply did not want to participate. As far as the election of the Programme Council is concerned, it requires half the majority of votes, so you will have to agree and vote very disciplinedly on Friday. As for the story of the coalition, there is no story of the coalition, so in some things we agree within the opposition, and in some things we disagree. As regards the Law on HRT, Boric, until 2015. We were responsible for him, 2016. We are no longer responsible, you and 2017 are responsible you and 18. and '19. And the '20s. and '21. Therefore, if your law is not good, change it, if your law is good, accept it, but we have nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37354	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Josip Boris, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37355	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's to finalize on this item of our agenda selection of seven members of the HRT Programme Council. I didn't mean to, but my colleague, Bauk, he didn't make it through that opposition exit, he let it go, so they're not so tough and they're not, they can't obviously work because they don't have anything in common, but if we have to crash or create problems here, and we can kind of accept it as most in HS, try to do our job right. It's up to them to keep doing this job the way they do, and very soon some elections will show citizens what they think about it. Surely they are not pleased with this, this is a dozen names of people who know what they've created in life, which nominates them to be members and should be led by the debate, but at that moment that I mentioned when the Bridge attacks the SDP exactly the colleague of Bauk who as minister raised his hand for such a HRT law then there is a problem that they've solved together by leaving the assembly, trying to tell us that we have to listen to what they want, that we have to act the way they think, that public service has to adapt to them at any time of the day, when they want to talk about something, that service has to follow them because they're like some kind of responsible opposition who knows a lot about everything they like or don't like, and they sit right on that public service all day. I don't know a colleague I see twice a day. If that's censorship, if that's the problem, then don't let them call us there anymore. Maybe you're tearing the ratings down. I don't or some other members of the opposition if that's the problem, but I don't think it's a problem and I shouldn't be a problem in the heads of politicians. Those who want to fight to be a public service will not do what they're doing today, that in the debate on candidates we are discussing work i.e. about this Programme Council report, and it's not a topic. And that's where you created the reason why you need to leave the session, we can't influence it. We asked you to be normal and responsible, you didn't want to. Is that okay with the president of the SDP, Mr. Grbin, who wants to be very constructive? I don't know if he's familiar with this, but this obviously won't work for him because this is what I think he can't afford, and not even a single party called SDP. What you're doing is you're going to follow smaller parties whatever they're doing here and mess up if you have to, that you're supporting it, so tomorrow you're going to have a problem with it, you're going to have because the citizens don't want to trust you anymore. You're obviously a party that has a problem, if you follow up on these reactions in the assembly, I don't know what any of us should do in you, we shouldn't be politicians, see constructively when we can't talk about ten candidates, not the program, not whether there's censorship or not, whether there's some TV watching or not, but about candidates we're talking about, about candidates. These people may object if you wish, but there was no debate. There was a debate about how we want to bring down the quorum, the point, how we want to bring down the debate, etc., if it's an opposition task, you do it, we won't have a problem with it, but when citizens, and they need to know what one of your fellow Maras would say, let the citizens see what's going on, I don't think it's going to be good for you in the future because this home has its own rules, and if we're going to moderate them individually, take over speakers when we want to, call public service when we want to be on TV, then there's no more rules, and we're a democratic society and we want to stay. And that's why my colleague Bauk, whatever you're saying, is why you're having a hard time getting rid of this. This has been a bad reaction to one decent normal point in the debate, and you're going to have to live with this for the next few months because what you're doing doesn't contribute to anything, and at least to you as strangers, and that this public service will be better than what you see. So at the end of the messages, I think that this job that you took to run the state out of the opposition, that you will dictate the pace and everything else that needs to be done, that you will interpret the Rules of Procedure as you wish, or that you will call public service when it is necessary to transfer the session simply cannot be because it is a mix-up of policy in public service, and you are against it the hottest or the loudest in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-03-0.u37356	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We'll finish work for today, and we'll see you again at work tomorrow on Thursday 4th March at 9.30 and the first item will be the Amendment Law and the Completion of the Law on Pet Breeding, First Reading, P.Z. No. 71. Have a good evening. WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK.
