ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27284	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I will talk about pensioners who have been in Croatia for a number of years belong to the social category. It's inadmissible because it's about our parents, our grandparents, our neighbors, those who created everything we have today, and almost all governments treat them like third-class citizens. In Croatia, almost every third citizen retired and who according to HZMO data in January this year and when we add that number, that number is 1,240,000 users of pension. Astounding data is that more than half the pensioners, over 600,000 receive a pension of less than 2500 kuna, which is only 35% of the average salary in Croatia. The government of Andrej Plenkovic rejected a proposal by two laws that would significantly improve the standard of our pensioners. The HDZ government has rejected the proposal that the surviving spouse with his pension may inherit 50% of the deceased spouse's pension. The government also had no ear for another legislative proposal to improve the current family pension model. Now the surviving spouse can inherit 70% of the spouse's pension, the proposal was to be 80%, it was rejected. Most women who have inherited pensions from their deceased spouses today have an average pension of 2000 kuna, so you survive with it. There are about 230 thousand family pensioners in Croatia, so we're talking about 230 thousand people living off these amounts. How, you can imagine. Therefore, according to the State Statistics and Educational Institute of Public Health Andrija Printar, there are 400,000 of these widows and widows. The bill is clear, on average every 3rd pensioner would have improved the material status that HDZ and partners did not show that they absolutely do not care about the pensioners. The only thing on their mind is that now, before the April elections, it will give them an increase of half a percent with lags, which is on average 42 kuna. In fact, I don't know how you're going to spend that money on our pensioners because it's really about symbolic amounts, but irony aside. And despite all of this, despite the leaders of some pensioners' associations, at local level today make alliances with the HDZ leadership, precisely with HDZ, which at the state level so sent them to the chateau of those who speak, and none of this is done. Is that hypocrisy, he gave it exhibitionism for several buses, he gave it really the lowest level of political sales or forgotten interests of the pensioners who some of us are largely representing. To represent and to make retirement status better is not to sell for one or two chairs, that is what is indeed a fight for, for rights and for a better life of pensioners. We look up to each other, for example. According to Slovenia, there is an average, there is a very different average and a better standard of living Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27342	The next Club of Representatives will be one of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27343	Did a little colleague put you to sleep? But there's no Bukarica to warn him. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Zlata Djurdjevic is an indicator of the real situation in Croatian politics. A person who opposed the extradition of the refugees Josip Perkovic and Zdravko Mustac to Germany because of the liquidation of Croatian emigrants, Stjepan Đurekovic. A person who was against the decision of the high court in violation, by which Marko Perkovic Thompson was released for the cry "For Home Ready" in Chavoglava. But in fact, it's a big game, it's about the play of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and the president of the state of Zoran Milanovic, because if we look at the real policies involved, Andrej Plenkovic would actually be perfectly appropriate to him. He would have no objection to this person becoming president of the Supreme Court. However, local elections are and then, as per order, another public address comes from our President Zoran Milanovic, where he, as if in agreement, is in agreement, and perhaps this "as" does not exist, with the prime minister and then he starts to fight for Zlata Djurdjevic. What does he get out of it? I really don't see any interest, but I see what is the interest of Andrej Plenkovic. Suddenly, he should again become a right-wing candidate in his voting body, or HDZ, must become some kind of sovereign party, and then to become one, it is best to have some topic where SDP and HDZ will face each other. And where better than here is Zlata Djurdjevic, who is definitely wrong about sovereignty, who is definitely wrong about it, I will say that, too, about national interests because he opposes the extradition of the refugees of Josip Perkovic and Zdravko Mustac Germany who are guilty of the death of the immigrant Stjepan Djurkovic, and that is something that is controversial. It's a shame that the head of state lists who the married godfather is, who he is to whom he's an associate and politically similar without ever doing anything about it. It is a shame that the head of government publicly says that the president of the state is telling lies and criticises him as some false reformer, as if his government had implemented any reform of the judiciary. But the most embarrassing thing is that SDP and HDZ have made it possible to create such a circulatory system and that from these superficial charms, citizens will get nothing. None of the two allegedly opposed actually want a functional rule of law. Anyone would just want the system to be set up just as they wish. HS is the one who decides to appoint, and we are aware that the right and justice in Croatia are most often not on the same side, but that Croatian sovereigns will in any case advocate to shake up the rooted structures and show little hope that one day all systems can be at the service of citizens, not privileged centres of power. So Zlata Djurdjevic is the best indicator of today's political situation in Croatia. A person who opposed the handover of comforters Josip Perkovic to Germany over the murder of Croatian emigrant Stjepan Djurekovic. A person who opposes, opposed the decision of the High Violent Court to release Thompson because of a cry for a home prepared in Chavoglava simply cannot be the President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27457	Thank you very much. Now it's been an hour, so we're going to stop by this point for a moment and, as usual, now take some time to take a stand on behalf of the representatives clubs and independent representatives. On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the first representative, Vesna Vucilović, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27458	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very I have chosen a very current topic, and it refers to the creation of a National Recovery Plan related to the withdrawal of a large, large amount of funds that is more than 9 billion. In fact, when we took an oath in this high house last July, soon the current prime minister came to present members of the government and the programme for the next period. The story of EU funds, the multiannual financial framework, the recovery plan immediately started, and all of this should be used to recover the economy from the fall caused by the coronary epidemic. For months now, the national recovery plan has been working in top secret. However, the details slowly come out. Although our entrepreneurs have experienced a cold shower already after a few information that has been made public. This time they expected that the funds would be allocated to those who were truly the most affected by the economic crisis caused by this epidemic. They therefore proposed that the ratio be at least 50% in the private sector, but the government proposed something completely different to the National Recovery Plan. It speculates on the amount between 70% and 90% of the recovery plan planned for the public sector. As the main justification for such distribution from the government, they pointed out that the European Commission is seeking and insisting. After the HUP meeting with the representatives of the European Commission, completely conflicting information came out. At the meeting, European Commission representatives confirmed that there are no obstacles or restrictions to the investment of grants in the private sector. The most important points of the meeting have been crystallised that the National Recovery Plan will not be approved by large physical and public infrastructure projects and that public sector projects should not push private sector projects that need to boost the competitiveness of the economy. So, what our people would say is "if a lying goat does not lie to the horn" and instead of helping businesses, the government again intends to pour money into the public sector, regardless of their numbers, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises that employ more than 90% of the workforce in this epidemic are on the verge of bankruptcy. What kind of projects does the government propose? Once again, we find out off the record that 2 billion are foreseen for the "Justice Market", which was planned in 2004, means that the old projects were taken out of the drawers again, and if the programme of improving the efficiency of the judicial system is that all institutions would be in one place, it does not mean that anything will be done to reform the judiciary. We all know that the builders don't have enough workers anyway and they have their hands full after two devastating earthquakes, so then we don't really see any reason not to go back to the construction sector again. What else is the government planning? Back to the construction sector. Construction of nursing homes for a price of EUR 2.250 per m2. The fact is, we've had a chronic lack of such capacity for 10 years now, and the problem exists, but the price has been high beyond measure. The construction of a square meter at home of EUR 1,950 and that of the additional EUR 300 per m2 homes, which means that it is EUR 2,250 per m2, even if the Government of the Republic of Croatia is too much. In any case, the country's major impact on the economy has increased further in this crisis, and the funds from the recovery plan are an opportunity to target our economy in a direction that will remove Croatia from the EU's start in the long term. Each crisis is an opportunity for change in the desired direction, if we throw this means into the well of a corrupt clientele network that has brought us into economic hopelessness, the question before us is everything but a bright future. The government still has a chance to listen to others and make necessary adjustments. If it is to judge by respecting the opposition's proposal, it is unlikely that they will have a hearing, they will probably continue on that old, old-fashioned forest, grandfather of the road.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27534	Thank you very much. The next one will be the Center and GLAS Representatives' Club, and the Honorable representative, Anka Mrak Taritaš, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27535	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It's mid-March and things about the crown don't seem to go exactly the way we hoped it would. I still think it is good that we are part of the EU and that we act as such. But we have to be realistic here and there's no reason to lie, organization and coordination aren't exactly the kind of organization and coordination we hoped for. The EU obviously has some problems in agreements with manufacturers, there are those in the world who have gone significantly further on the road to cleavage the population. Even in the Union, it is not exactly a fully balanced success, some have been better in vaccination, and some have been significantly worse. Unfortunately, it's already becoming a common sentence. Croatia is back at the bottom again, the third worst in the EU by vaccination is only the country that usually saves us from the last place, that is Bulgaria, and this time Latvia joined it. According to current plans, it seems that summer might happen to us, and we haven't vaccinated all our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who belong to one of the risk groups. We see in recent days that the epidemic does not show any intention of retreating and receding, our numbers are growing slightly as expected, but what shows the figures that we are still in control of the epidemic are still quite unsuccessful. And one thing that's waiting for us soon, the third week of May 16th is local elections. These will be the second crown elections in Croatia, which means that neither the campaign nor the vote will be able to be held in a very common manner. As the crown affected the turnout and results of the elections in Croatia and other countries, it is certain that politicians and other scientists will be studying for a long time. What worries me the most at this point is the link between the weak handling of the epidemic and the organisation of the local elections is the question of collecting signatures. The local election law prescribes that so-called independent lists and for all individual candidates, a number of signatures should be collected, depending on the size of the self-government unit. In Zagreb, for an independent list that means 2.5 thousand signatures, and for the mayor proposed by any citizen, either party means 5,000 signatures. The collection of signatures is an activity with intense interpersonal contact, you have to have stands on which activists stand, people come signed, they're close to each other for a while, they usually don't have their pen, so they use the one on the stand that goes hand in hand. The picture is quite clear, collecting signatures for candidacy is not by expressing epidemiologically desirable activity. There is, of course, the other side of the medal, and the fact that people are aware of unwanted activity and many will avoid it. This means that the collection of signatures could be significantly more difficult than otherwise and that many could remain below the required number for candidacy. This would be very bad because elections where the possibility of running is itself to be difficult beyond any reasonable border cannot be considered either democratic or free. By the time the election was over, it just happened to be 9.5 weeks. This way, I call on the ruling majority and the government to make urgent decisions on the problem of collecting signatures because we are under threat of a serious problem in the organisation of elections. Some of the countries in which I have to mention Italy and Finland have moved their local elections to autumn, I must remind you that we have moved our census to autumn. But all right, we've had one election already when we've boasted that we've won the crown, the elections in the law have been defined locally that the third Sundays are May and Ok, but we need to know now that we have the situation and that we have the rights that they are and that it can lead us to or violate the common sense of measures to prevent the infection or to the problem of the legitimacy of the election, given the very difficult running. There's still time to make certain decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27633	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Zdravka Busic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27634	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On 23 February 2021, colleagues and colleagues, the Assembly of the City of Subotica, with opposition from representatives of the Democratic Party of the Croatians of Vojvodina, decided to join a change in the statutes of the city, thus launching a procedure for introducing the rebel language into official use in the territory of the city. The proposal was submitted by Mayor Stevan Bakic on the initiative of the Alliance of Baba Bunjevac. This proposal is legally and legally unfounded and has very negative political and social consequences for the Croatian community in Serbia. This is about an identity recommendation within the Croatian community in Vojvodina because it is part of the Croatian community that declares themselves to the Bunjevs and also members of the Croatian people. This initiative is strongly opposed to what I said, the Democratic Party of Croatia in Vojvodina and the Croatian National Council and, of course, the Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics. Officially legal, the proposal which is the assembly is legitimate but illegal as Dr. Tomislav Žigmanov because I quote "The Bunjevački Language by all standards and criteria of science in Serbia and Croatia, as such does not exist, but exists as a dialect of a new stoic icikavica in which it is known as a speech, as a language of oral generality", which also has its literary heritage. Furthermore, the Bunjeci do not make up 15% of the population of the local community, which is necessary to declare that decision. The MVEP sent a protest note to Serbia's MVP, which points out, "As the rebel speech belonging to the group of the New Switzerland and Ichava dialect and is one of the dialects of the Croatian language and serves a large part of the Croatian people in Vojvodina, such an act would directly challenge the conduct of the Republic of Serbia in achieving the obligations of the Republic of Serbia relating to the rights of the Croatian national minorities and stemming from international multilateral and bilateral agreements including a valid agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro and the Serb and Montenegrin minorities in the Republic of Serbia." The launch of such initiatives does not really contribute to further improving and strengthening bilateral relations between the two countries and is not in the spirit of EU standards or good neighbourly relations. Therefore, this decision should be withdrawn because it is not legally founded and there is no scientific foothold to which the rebel language can be considered a separate language. This attempt has its own agenda, and it is an incursion of identity recommendations within the Croatian community and its separation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27702	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the Bridge and the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27703	Thank you very much. Here, now you'd just a little bit of what a colleague... The HDZ Club said that Croats in Vojvodina were forgotten by all governments of the Croatian government, this current one, because simply Croats have no rights and, of course, that Chetnik Vukic destroys them all the time, experiences great persecution, pressures to move to the Bunjevaci language, and that is true, and you know that in 2004 and 2005, in an agreement between Croatia and Serbia, Serbia does not respect while you and your coalition partner co-operate neatly, and there you did not protect our citizens, i.e. fellow countrymen who have been left for the mercy and mercy of Chetnik Vukic, so when he visits your coalition partner Pupovac, then go with him and solve this huge problem of forgotten Croats, forgotten, oppressed, humiliated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Croatia, representatives of the Serb national minority have 3 MPs, have 11 mayors guaranteed, 40 deputy mayors and mayors, and we are being suppressed by language, by your guilt, by the silence of Mr. Pupovac because he had to cooperate, welcome Chetnik Vukic, who makes fun of the Croatian people here during the former president of the Republic of Croatia. Not solving the problem of the dead and the missing in the Homeland War. I didn't mean to talk about this subject, but the Croats in Vojvodina are humiliated, oppressed, mocked, persecuted and committed serious crimes today. In the Republic of Croatia by a member of the national minority, let the triba and more be invested 37 times more and our people by the Croats, our language is forbidden. Their tongue is estranged, proclaiming it in a different language entirely. And proclaiming the Croatian people, the Croatian national minority in Vojvodina, proclaiming them as being remembered. And Mr. Zigmanov was left here alone. In the past parliamentary elections in Serbia, in the past parliamentary elections, you hear colleagues, you were in the ministry, in the previous parliamentary elections, no Croats, a member of the Croatian minority is in parliament. Not one. They're erasing their trail. While you're courting a Chetnik Vukic who only conducts that policy, only a Chetnik. Which is supported by your coalition partner who on the same day as Storm, he goes to a Chetnik party in Bucky Palank. We must hold to national minorities, so only the Serb national minority has given 10,000 Croatian defenders and these are our people. But you cannot allow the destruction of the Croatian people in Vojvodina. There's no right. Absolutely nothing. Enough of your demagogy, your wages, because of your mistakes, the people die away. The wolf wipes out every trace of them, a Chetnik student here Seselj who burned and hacked Croatia and Vojvodina. I promised to go there and visit those people, and I promised, because of the crisis we have, I can't, I don't have a chance. These people have been forgotten, left on fire by the Chetniks, left by Croatian politics and diplomacy is much more important to you than to push a small Slav advisor to the Council of Europe for a secretary than to protect the national minority in Croatia because you and Vucic's party are in the same Club of the People's Party Chetnic and that's the problem. And in the end, all I'd say is these 30 seconds about the subject I was thinking about talking about, I think it's the most important thing. Dalmatia has been forgotten, since 1925 we have a fast train, we have a train of night Split-Zagreb. The students traveled on that train. This government has lifted the train for Christmas. Minister, government, why did you do this? Why are you shutting down Dalmatia, train, Split, fast train Split-Zagreb in the night hours? Open it immediately because we will take the valley in Dalmatia measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27789	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU, and will be spoken by a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27790	Fellows and colleagues, the World Bank is certainly a co-creator but also a promoter of a three-stage pension system that was passed in 1998. Although much of what was designed has not happened, it has gone in the opposite direction. No real wage growth, no industry, no productivity development, and some new activities are slowly progressing and are looking for very professional and highly specialised employees. The World Bank has been calling for one measure all the time, and that is the rigidity of early retirements, not only at the amount but also at the duration. So early pensioners have been punished for life by a smaller pension. What's their crime for this punishment? Is it their fault they ran out of work? Why couldn't they have found a job in the 55th year of their lives? It's not a crime, it's an accident. An accident that in itself is already a punishment. In 5 years earlier, 18% of the pension, 20.4%, 2007 was reduced permanently to 9% thanks to the hands of pensioners in the Croatian Parliament, now the pension is up to 12% by 5 years. They're retired because it's the worst and lowest protected pensions. And they're the most hit, so guess who? Women again. For example, 35 years of internship, the pension from 2018 receives 2,009 kuna instead of 2,450 kuna. He's losing a fifth of his pension for life. Can you imagine that? Previously, it confirms that in our pension system it is not the most important or important payment of contributions, nor the length of internships, but the moment you went into retirement. Even 60 41 categories of long-term insurance before 2014. To be a bigger World Bank promoter is also a fight against poverty. I believe that these penalizations should be evened at the level of 2007. So, at a maximum of 9% or 0.15 per month of early retirement and when, for the sake of the justice of the pension system and the equality of the pensioners, this will have to be done. It will be difficult without a strong political leverage, without the hands of pensioners in the Croatian Parliament, without fighters for justice and equality of citizens. If, however, the World Bank really wants to fight poverty, the first should suggest that the lowest pensions are not retired in such a way that those who have to leave the world of work should not be punished twice or twice. Forcibly abandoning the world of work is already too severe a punishment. First employed by the poor, then poor pensioner, protected by the lowest pension and still life-long retired. Elemental logic requires that if we call something the lowest per year of internships can't exist any lower. Lower than the lowest. What country do we live in? Looks like we can only do it in Croatia. It is not to be expected that it will be resolved or proposed by the World Bank, but it is my duty as a representative. Retired MP. The Pension Insurance Act should also be changed to benefit from the protection of the poorest pensioners, the users of the lowest temporary, early retirement pensions that we know did not calculate when they retired and did not receive stimulating, high-stimulative severance from 100, 200, 300, 400 thousand kuna, but simply lost their jobs and had to retire. For them, I'm going to ask you to stop penalizing for the lowest pensions. I will resent someone again because my expectations are much higher, but I will do so with a clean conscience and a full heart by helping those who are poor, needy, punished beyond measure and who have cheated and lied throughout the working life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27809	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the IDS, and will be spoken by the esteemed representative Katarina Nemet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u27810	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, I will briefly point to another problem in our education system, which unfortunately has a lot in all segments of education, which, unfortunately, always breaks on the backs of students and students. One of the problems faced by high school students in craft professions refers to state scholarships to high school students who are educated in deficits in a system related to crafts according to a unique model of education for interest in the Regulations on tied and privileged crafts and how to issue privileges. Students who meet the conditions can receive a scholarship of 18 thousand kuna per year or 54 thousand kuna per year for three years of education, which is a concrete financial aid to students, or their parents, and I personally know examples of young people who and because of this scholarship have opted for one of the deficiting crafts or professional professions. Also, in a conversation with a few school principals, it can be learned that the scholarship system is well imagined and is welcome as an incentive to choose deficits. Given that real labour market needs are also consulted in the design of the tender, with the exception of financial support, students are offered a practical and almost certain possibility of employment after schooling. But as it usually happens in Our Beauty, the theory of good things is well and well imagined, but the problem arises when it should be implemented in practice and in the case of state scholarships for deficiting occupations students and their parents encounter a series of problems that are particularly highlighted in this school year and calendar year. Namely, although the current school year has started for 6 months, and since the deadline for applications for scholarships has been up to 2 months, the results have not yet been completed. In October of last year, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development announced a public call for scholarships, somewhat later than the previous years, and as I said, neither the results of the competition, let alone the start of the scholarship payment, are yet to be known. I will repeat that they did not have a number of high school students who had been identified for deficit professional professions precisely because of these state scholarships offered to them at the beginning of their schooling course and upon which all those who applied for them were right in previous years. According to some unofficial information, there are reportedly indications this year that funding for scholarships will not be to the desired extent, so the scholarship of students to the second and third years of schooling is questionable. I don't think that's supposed to happen, and I don't think that's supposed to happen. These young people who have chosen the profession that the state itself has set as a deficit should not at one point be practically left behind, while at the beginning of school they were motivated and called on, not to say, to drug scholarships and other benefits. I therefore appeal to the competent Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, but also to the Ministry of Science and Education to speed up the current tender procedure and to start with the payment of scholarships for this school year, which, I repeat, has already gone well into the second half. In addition, I call on all those in charge to understand the importance of professional or craftsmanship, especially those that the state itself has assessed as deficitary and to find ways to keep education adequately monitored and stimulated from the start to the end of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38567	Honorable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. We continue to work on the scheduled agenda, so we will now discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Meteorological Organisation on Legal Status and Action of the Office for Projects of the World Meteorological Organisation in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 119; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 207th Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. That Article of the Rules of Procedure provides that the laws to be approved by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are to be adopted as a rule in one reading. The amendment may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. I would now ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation of this final bill. With us is Secretary of State Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38568	I'd like to thank the president of HS, the honourable MPs, the honourable MPs. The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Meteorological Organisation on Legal Status and Action of the Office for Projects of the World Meteorological Organisation in the Republic of Croatia is therefore a member of the World Meteorological Organisation, a specialised UN meteorology, hydrology and related geophysical sciences since 8 November and 1992, respectively, is actively involved in the programmes and projects of the SMO including participation in the continuous international exchange of meteorological, hydrological and related data and products. The Republic of Croatia hosted a significant number of regional and global meetings, workshops and the SMO conference. In view of a number of successful projects carried out by the ECJ to strengthen the capacity of meteorological and hydrological services in Southeast Europe, the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the establishment of the Office for Projects in the Republic of Croatia, in the further text of this law, it is the Office for the Projects of the SMO, and this is done by concluding the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the EC on the legal status and functioning of the Office for Projects in the Republic of Croatia. Since then, significant socio-economic benefits have been expected from the work of the Office for Projects of the SME as a centre of excellence for meteorology and hydrology in Southeast Europe and to strengthen resilience to natural disasters under global climate change conditions. Therefore, the conclusion of the Agreement will facilitate the implementation of the ENP projects in Southeast Europe in the coming period. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, on 28 September 2020 in Zagreb, the Agreement was signed by the Director-General of the State Hydrometeorological Institute and the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Branka Ivančan Picek, director of DHMZ, and on behalf of the SMO on 12 October 2020 in Geneva is the Secretary General of the SMO. Peter Taalas. The Office for Projects is an integral part of the SMO Secretariat, its headquarters will be in the town of Zagreb in the Republic of Croatia, its tasks are defined by the Secretary-General of the SMO, and the Office for Projects is responsible for it through the Director of Development and Regional Activities of the SMO and Regional Representative for the 6th Part, for the 6th Group of Europe. Tasks include cooperation with all the members of the SMO in the region, particularly members from Southeast Europe, with UN regional offices, UN development programme and other UN auxiliary bodies with regional offices of other specialised agencies, intergovernmental organisations of regional character in the area of meteorology, climate science, operational hydrology and related disciplines. The SMO will appoint the Head and other employees of the Office for Projects, the Government makes available the Office for projects without the cost of the secretary or secretary, office space and the relevant office equipment to be located in the premises, the DHMZ premises. Finally, we expect significant socio-economic benefits from the work of the Office for Projects from the perspective of strengthening the Republic of Croatia as a centre of excellence for meteorology, hydrology in Southeast Europe and strengthening resilience to natural disasters in global climate change. The funds for the start of the Office's work are set out in the DHMZ budget and in conclusion, we believe this is a confirmation of the long-term quality work of DHMZ and international recognition of the same. Now, if you'll allow me to tell you some information in the context of this bill, about DHMZ itself, and about its activities. As part of the European and world network of national meteorological and hydrological services, DHMZ is responsible for monitoring the state of the atmosphere and water, as well as for analysing and forecasting their future situation. On the basis of these activities, it is noted that possible weather and hydrological conditions and phenomena that threaten lives, material goods, the economy and the environment. All DHMZ activities are targeted to meet the growing need for this information. These are primarily early warnings of extreme weather and hydrological events, adaptation to climate change and the use of renewable wind, water and sun energy. To this end, DHMZ started 2017. with the implementation of 3 major strategic projects. The first project is the METMONIC project, which is the modernisation of the meteorological network of observation with the aim of improving, monitoring of weather, climate, climate change in support of climate change adaptation systems in total amounting to 350 million kuna. The project lasts until the middle of '32, and so far, 6 modern meteorological radars have been contracted from the project's resources, 3 of which will be located on the Adriatic, near Labin, near Zadar and Pelješac and 3 in the continental part of Putinjarka, Bilogora and Gradište. Radar measurements will significantly improve the detection of storm clouds and weather forecasts, especially on the Adriatic that has not had such measurements so far. This is particularly important for tourism and maritime transport, as well as for safety in general. There are also 5 oceanographic meteorological swimmers who will first establish such measurements on the open sea at Kvarner, from Kvarner to Prevlaka. By the end of the project, a network of 450 automatic meteorological terrestrial stations will be established, which will significantly increase the space and time availability of meteorological data. The second project is the AIRQ project, modernisation and establishment of 24 state-owned air quality monitoring networks totaling 150 million kuna. The finalisation of the project until the end of 2022. Effective air quality control and management in the Republic of Croatia will be established. This project has purchased a modern supercomputer, 4 times faster than the existing DHMZ, which will allow the production of detailed and accurate weather forecasts and air-conditioned simulations. And finally the third project VEPAR, a project of not building measures in the field of flood defence in cooperation with Croatian waters, is expected to contribute to reducing the risk of floods. Therefore, these projects will ensure the establishment of a platform to improve and modernise the reception, processing, control and storage of data and ensure their availability to all users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38569	I thank the Secretary of State, stay here because we have replicas, first up is my colleague Maric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38570	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Secretary of State, according to what you said, as it says, DHMZ is entrusted with the actual implementation of this whole agreement, the office will be in Zagreb, which is clear. However, since the earthquake damaged the Grič building in Zagreb DHMZ and forced them to find temporary accommodation, and before the earthquake they were inadequate working conditions. As far as I have seen under the DHMZ annual plan, a project is planned for a new building and this should be implemented at least in 2021 from the EU funds. The building should be located within Campus in Borongaj. I wonder if this will be realized this year or when this new building will be and given the inadequate conditions so far, will this office be able to function in this temporary accommodation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38571	I would like to thank you for your rep, Your Honor. So I read these DHMZ activities for a reason to stress the importance of this institution for the Republic of Croatia. I also have to say that these earthquakes damaged buildings where they were, DHMZ was located in 4 positions, so Grič building, hydrology was damaged, and now DHMZ is now operating in a rental at the “Broeding Institute” and “Kras” and one part is rented in Borongaj. As far as this project is concerned, great ambitions are being made to create one Campus at the Borongaj site, project documentation has been made. I think there's already been a phase of the construction permit and we're looking for a position in the EU instruments to see how we're going to start funding this Campus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38572	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38573	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable President of the Assembly, I congratulate you on this, it may not be clear yet how big this is for Croatia. So no Southeast European country has a world meteorological organization. The World Meteorology Organization has not opened offices and this project co-ordination office for Southeast Europe for many years. The projects you mentioned are worth more than 500 million kuna, so that office will coordinate the entire Southeast Europe and billions of kunas, or EUR. Therefore, this is a significant diplomatic success of the Republic of Croatia. Congratulations to you, Minister Coric, I know how much work has been done in Geneva. And I would also like to say that despite the earthquake and the migration, there was no day that there was no forecast. Congratulations to the principal that you were able to ensure the continuity of the forecasting despite the fact that your building was destroyed by an earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38574	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38575	I would like to thank the Honorable Representative Pavić. So, you're absolutely right, this is finally a recognition of DHMZ's work, his reputation and authority in, in the field of hydrometeorology because we will be this way representative, with this office we will represent leaders in this part, in this part of Europe, and in this part of the EU. As far as the earthquake itself is concerned, I have to say that DHMZ never stopped working one day, they even saved all of the archive building and moved it from the building to the Gritch that was pretty damaged in, in the earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38576	My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38577	I thank the esteemed president of HS. Secretary of State. I will also join my colleagues who will congratulate the State Hydrometeorological Institute on this exceptional success on this occasion. It's probably a contribution to what you've been doing for the last 30 years as part of the World Meteorological Organization. Indeed, from the beginning of the profession, it is also very important to prove that you are the leader of Southeast Europe in this discipline and that additional emphasis is placed on hydrological data not only on meteorologically. My one and only question concerns only the ambiguity that comes to me from this, it is clear that officials of the office themselves will be defined by the World Organisation or possibly by some further procedures, but I am concerned that we will give the employee who earns 76,000 kuna on an annual basis or will work for a salary of 4,800 as a secretary, is that true?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38578	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38579	So in order to complete this whole project we had to show some financial parameters that would be the beginning of this office's work. So, everything else whether that salary will be 4, 5 or something more will be determined by the head of the office in agreement with the representatives of the Republic of Croatia in that office. So this is just a preliminary financial statement of some need to start work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38580	Now it's my friend's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38581	What is particularly important is what is always appreciated in every society is tradition. DHZ is an institution that has decades and decades of success and work behind it. It is one of the best institutions of this kind in this part of Europe. What really is the problem is, today it is already mentioned that the building in which it was located in the very old center of Zagreb, that building was old as which part of the building was 100 and more years old. What really today is absolutely necessary is to make this new seat, I know it's already being done, but let's hope it's done as soon as possible. DHZ is one institution that is not only strong, it is an institution that has a large number of highly educated employees and encourages education among its employees and by building a new headquarters, the institution would gain additional strength and that would be something that would be proud of all of Croatia and hopefully do so sooner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38582	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38583	I thank you, Your Honor. So I said before that there was an absolutely prepared project documentation, and we had on two occasions a visual presentation of the project before the minister, so the minister had the opportunity to get acquainted with the visual layout of that space. This Camp Borongaj should consist of a complex of three large buildings in which all DHMZ infrastructures will be located and possibly a possible Centre for Climate and Faculty Classes for some future times where in the end all mind will concentrate on this problem in this Camp Borgojaj and it will itself be a decoration for that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38584	My colleagues, Grba Bujević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38585	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, State Secretary, dear colleague. Here I would also welcome, of course, this contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Meteorological Organisation, but she would actually like to say one more thing. DHMZ is very good at transporting all those activities that are related to major accidents, disasters, their quality and professional statements that then deliver to us as a model by which we can predict some actions in response to disasters are invaluable. So let me still congratulate my colleague Ivančan Picek as well as her associates who are doing excellent work, working with all the organizations that should actually respond to a great accident, so here is a colleague thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38586	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38587	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. I said and this is a general position, a general opinion that there is a growing need in the world today is the growing need for information from this type that monitors climate change, suggest various cataclysms of natural and DHMZ with these data from measurement stations, the whole of the Republic of Croatia is covered up with measurement stations of different types, is linked to the central system in the European Commission. The European Commission's assessment of the state of the air, the state of the air, the protection of the environment is precisely and is generalised on the basis of the data that we get from the DHMZ, which is, therefore, an important institution throughout this chain of responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38588	Now she's going to speak to her colleague, Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38589	Thank you. I am interested in you mentioning the METMONIC project that modernises meteorological networks, since this project will introduce three new radars that will cover the Adriatic which is currently not covered by radar measurements, it has been announced that these three radars will be on the line by the end of last year, as I recall, at what stage. I know the total project is up to 2023. But here's these three radars I'm interested in what stage they're in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38590	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38591	Dear MPs, it's a project worth 350 million kuna and it's currently going on until '32. These three radars, which will be located in the continental part or located on the Adriatic Sea near Labin, Zadar and Peljesac, are not easily located because there is and the need for previous actions must be done, property relations on those particles where access routes are to be set up, the entire infrastructure must be set up for the installation of those three radars. So it's a process that lasts, I can't tell you now when the year is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38592	If I may complete.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38593	Excuse me. I'm sorry. No, no, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: You can't.]] I'd love to, I'd love to hear from you, but the rules are the rules. [[Intruder: But you will be written...]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Intruder: The whole project will be written in writing, thank you.]] Let's go to the last line, dear colleague Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38594	Thank you, President HS. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I congratulate you, first of all, the Government then the Ministry and the DHMZ on this contract and on Croatia becoming the leader of Southeast Europe in meteorology. But I think what's very important is that these projects that you've listed and what Croatia is getting in the coming years, and I'm sure the happiest will be DHMZ employees because they'll all be one big, one big incentive to just work with this new equipment, with new stations, to collect a lot more data than they can now and to be able to predict it more accurately, and they're too important for all of us, especially for people who do business and agriculture, but also for some other important branches.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38595	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38596	I thank you, Your Honor. In any case, the fact that it will no longer be rented, that this, so serious state institutions with everything, with all their infrastructure will be located in one place and will have its own space permanently because in any case some kind of supply for better work. They're at these locations right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38597	I thank the Secretary of State. You can go back to the scene now because the replicas are finished. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. That means we're moving on to a debate. The first in line is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Since he's not here, he's losing his right to speak, so let's go to another debate, the House of Homeland Representatives Club, no, excuse me, SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Domagoj Price, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38598	President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Meteorological Organisation (World Meteorological Organization) or the WMO on Legal Status and Action of the Office for Projects of the World Meteorological Organisation in the Republic of Croatia shall address the following essential elements necessary for the operation of the Office. Among other things, the Agreement addresses matters of responsibility, legal personality of the Office, premises, resources, freedom of action and meetings, its staff, privileges, immunity, implementation, conflict resolution and other issues. The WMO Project Office shall be set up as an integral part of the SMO Secretariat. It is important to mention that there is no need to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law because they are secured in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections for the next two years thereafter. The planned funds are for regular directorial costs, the purchase of non-financial assets, furniture, other office equipment and computers and the salary of employees. The agreement itself was signed at the end of 2020 between our country and the ECO in Zagreb and Geneva. The obligations of the WMO Office are to engage and coordinate the work of experts relevant for project activities, to coordinate projects implemented by the WMO in Southeast Europe, to connect and maintain links with users and stakeholders, to organise workshops, meetings and events, to report on the WMO Regional Office for Europe and to contractors on project implementation, to monitor project budgets and to organise procurement and travel arrangements, to raise funds and to contribute to the development of new project initiatives in the region. The Office for WMO projects has the ability to initiate legal procedures, contract, acquire and dispose of movable and immovable assets. The Government of the Office shall provide premises and funds, and the chief secretary of WMO shall appoint the Head of the Office. The Head of the Office shall represent the WMO before the Government in the implementation of the Agreement. In doing so, the government provides a full - time staff member with a condition of knowledge of English. The full implementation of the Agreement shall be entrusted to DHMZ. It is important to note that this Agreement may be amended and supplemented by the mutual written consent of the Council. Each Party may terminate this Agreement at any time by written notice to the other Party by diplomatic means. In that case, the Agreement shall cease 12 months after the other party has received notice of completion. The Republic of Croatia is actively involved in WMO programmes and projects, including participation in the continuous international exchange of meteorological, hydrological and related data and products. The UN Specialized Institute for Meteorology, Hydrology and Related Geophysical Sciences was established in 1992 and is based in Geneva. Croatia has been a member since 1992 DHMZ is a state administrative but also a scientific organisation. DHMZ manages the network of meteorological and hydrological stations and centres, as well as national meteorology databases, hydrology and air quality. The DHMZ monitors the quality of air on the state network, manages the network and develops it and performs defence actions against fighting. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, DHMZ shall carry out international affairs in the field of hydrology and meteorology. DHMZ is an extremely developed and powerful institution with many decades of long tradition of work. The number of DHMZ employees is almost 400 and are deployed throughout Croatia with the largest number of employees in Zagreb, Rijeka and Split and many other cities and cities of Croatia. One third of the employees have high professional equipment, of which 11 masters of science were employed, 19 doctors of science were employed and it is important to mention that some of them are co-workers at the universities of the University of Zagreb, such as Geotechnical Faculty, Geophysical Department of the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics, Faculty of Traffic Sciences and the Faculty of Forestry. It is positive that DHMZ itself encourages the development of education among its employees. We know that the issue of gender equality is crucial in our society, and it is important to note that out of the 8 chiefs of the DHMZ sector, even 7 women are, of course, the principal director. The hydrometeorological institution is extremely important, especially in times of climate change and impacts that they have on our society. In particular, important METMONIC and AIRQ projects should be highlighted. I must point out that of the priorities of solving the issue of DHMZ rooms is for the reason that so far the headquarters was at the address Grič 3, in the very center of Zagreb. It is an older-date building that was significantly injured in an earthquake that hit Zagreb in March 2020. For reasons of security, employees could no longer be in it and are now in other rooms that have been rented. There is already a project to build a new DHMZ headquarters on Camp Borongaj which we can hope will be completed as soon as possible. The Borongaja campus already contains some of the University of Zagreb colleges and would help not only DHMZ but also develop science in our country by building this headquarters. The new modern headquarters of the Hydrometeorological Institute for the 21st century would be proud of all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38599	Thank you. We are going to the second debate, or third in a row, of a colleague, Davor Dretar, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38600	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Director-General, colleagues and colleagues. Meteorology and its basic definition are the sciences of the Earth's atmosphere and changes in it. Fortunately, Croatian meteorology, especially as perceived by an average Croatian citizen, is much more than that. Among other things, of course thanks to the great work of DHMZ and the fact that their employees and employees are daily guests in our homes, either via television screens, radio receivers or any other media. I just need to get out of the subject for a moment and brag that I'm a lady. Branko Ivančan Picek participated for years in the realizations of HRT weather reports, the lady from one side of the camera, I am extremely pleased to see you here today. The additional promotion of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian meteorology, which we see here, comes with this decision today with probably additional financial resources that the World Meteorological Organisation will invest in our part of Europe, with even better control over the spending of these funds than before, is absolutely welcome. Croatian meteorology has become part of the daily life of all inhabitants of this country. The conversation about how time will be, is one of the most common with the first morning coffee or meeting with colleagues and colleagues at the workplace, which is an extraordinary talk about how many DHMZ employees have become an integral part of our lives. Here is only when we mention unfortunately the late legendary Milan Sierkovic, now we have Zoran Vakulu, here we have heard that an employee of the maritime center Mr. Jurica Miljak has retired, these are really legends that have become practically part of our family. As for the very text of these amendments, or the contract, already mentioned here by the employee provided for by this agreement, only to be moved from one budgetary position to the other and there is absolutely no problem who will be the host, here I have looked at what is publicly available from the information, there is one Mrs. from Finland, which has been working in Zagreb for some time on World Meteorological Organization projects, its salary will likely be provided by the same organization. As a city, we as a country will get a kind of center of excellence for Southeast Europe, from Zagreb will be even more intensively negotiated, coordinated and implemented projects both by ours and by the World Meteorological Organisation. We are all equally aware of global climate change that affects the world's population and the world's economy more than ever. Droughts or floods cause depopulation, population migration, and their consequences directly endanger the world economy and human lives. Such an office will, by its action, strengthen the resilience to natural disasters caused by the already mentioned global changes. How much will it cost us, we saw ourselves in the report, 340 000 kn this year, 264 000 kn for office, furniture and equipment of all necessary things, and 76 000 kn for one employee per year, an employee with English language knowledge and probably of course using computer technology. We've heard here from the esteemed secretary of state that it's just a suggestion because really 6 333 kn and 33 lp gross monthly, so a little less than 5,000 kn per month, it seems to me, the amount that we must certainly step up if we can in any way, but again, I'd like to remind you that we here have the full right to know that amount in the last lip, and here we're just talking, we'll be, we'll see, we'll sort it out. Okay, we support you. Projects to modernise the network and network instruments through meteor stations, radar and floaters are important, of course, for monitoring all meteorological events or phenomena in our country, what is quite important is another of the projects mentioned, monitoring the quality of air, in the past few months, we have seen that we are not at all satisfied with the quality of air in Zagreb, primarily with one of the worst air quality in the region and, of course, there is already mentioning the third flood defence project through the water supply monitoring and regulation of the precipitation waters, in which the DHMZ will also participate as well as the World Meteorological Organization through projects. The projects are important, it is clear to all of us that such an office is particularly his competence for all of Southeast Europe important and important for the City of Zagreb and that we can naturally and raise the level of work of meteorological experts, and of course increase the number of projects that will be implemented here, and of course the whole society will benefit from it. So, the House Movement Representatives Club supports this project and we fully agree with it. I won't be long anymore, I know that we have more important work to do today, of course through the agenda, or the schedule of discussions, and I also believe that colleagues from HDZ are starting to work seriously on setting up a mosquito and cancer vaccine factory, so I'm going to give them time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38601	Now it's MOST's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Miro Bulj. He's gone, too, and he's losing his right to speak, and then now he's going to speak to a respected colleague, Marko Pavić, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38602	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, Director of the DHMZ. Well, I am just pleased to be able to defend my profession today, to defend my Geophysics on behalf of the HDZ Club, the profession I studied, Oceanography and Meteorology, and I am proud to come and defend today that Croatia will have the Office of the World Meteorological Organization here in Zagreb. How big a thing it is to say that, once again, no Southeast European country has such an office, that a similar office has not been opened for years since the World Meteorological Organisation anywhere and that this office will coordinate the development of projects for Region 6, Europe that is wider than Southeast Europe, and how big these projects are sufficiently speaking here are only these 3 DHMZ projects over 500 million kuna. It is a great success of Croatian diplomacy, I know how much Minister Coric was active in Geneva, as much as the predecessors of Mrs. Ivančan Picek was active, I would certainly like to thank Mr. Cacic, who was the president of the World Meteorological Organisation and Special Secretary, Special Advisor of the World Meteorological Organisation. So what we have today is the result of the work of Croatian diplomacy, Croatian profession, geophysics and meteorology in the last many years to get such an opportunity and such a reputation that we can open the office of the World Meteorological Organisation in DHMZ in Zagreb. When we talk about projects, so here are only these 3 projects over 500 million kuna from these, out of the majority, so the current envelopes project METEMONIC 350 million kuna, 450 automatic stations, 6 radars, an incredible amount of equipment that will contribute to the development of Croatian meteorology and hydrology, as well as oceanography since it includes floaters for the entire Adriatic. How do meteorological and climate forecasts work? So meteorology is, meteorological forecasts are weather forecasts, time is a short-term state of the atmosphere, so what's going to happen in the next few days. Air conditioning is the average time within 30 years. The key to everything is measurements, without measurement you cannot give any forecasts and the key to everything is to have quality measurements in the Republic of Croatia. These projects and AIRQ as regards air quality management and the VEPAR project is a lajdar, the procurement of water slides and will certainly contribute to the development of measurement and measurement are the basis for any forecast. The next component is modeling. You, you get data and you get analysis of the model of what happens in the Gulf of Genoa over the Atlantic and these weather conditions come to the Republic of Croatia and you need to know that it could be quality modelled and predicted any time of long-term weather forecast. For that, you need to have super computers. I don't know if that's still the case, but for many years DHMZ had the most powerful supercomputer in Croatia, I hope that's how it will continue, and these projects should be provided by 2021 as much as I understood. And only when you have quality measurements, quality models and computers can you do the prognosis, and for your prognosis are important people, and there is also a great value of DHMZ and the Faculty of Natural Sciences in Zagreb that produces this quality fit, many of them I have personally taught and who have seen meteorologists on television today. And long ago we heard a statement from Mr. Isaac Newton that, he said that if he saw further, he saw beyond others because he stood on the shoulders of giants. One of the Croatian giants we can be proud of is Andrija Mohorovic, we all know him about the earthquake, about the profession, and by his name it's called discontinuity between the crust and the cloak, but very few people know him as a meteorologist. He taught at the school in Bakr, there he even spent, conducted various measurements and observations, and today, let's say, the term "atmospheric rotor" which causes a lot of disturbances in the traffic of planes, which is the process where the air when crossing the mountain makes you one rotor, Mr. ie. academician Orlic and Mrs. Dr. Vanda Grubisic has shown that Mohorovic is one of the first to observe the process in the world, and we all know by the media we see colleague Željka Fuchs today with planes over Rocky Mountains dealing with the observations of such processes. And that's exactly what we look at Mohorovic and that he had an office in the Grill building, we should look back at new spaces, but honor that great meteorologist and seismologist. So I'm glad to hear that the new building is planned, we know that you moved to Kras and congratulations, Mrs. Picek, that you managed to ensure in that move the continuity of the forecast that it didn't feel at all, that you gave services to all users. We have also heard from my colleague Maya that your services are also needed in the health sector and in all crisis managements and that you have managed to secure these funds and the continuity of the forecasting. In addition to projects, human potentials are very important, and here you have a large amount of doctoral science, I am glad that some of them I taught while I was an assistant at the Geophysical Department and taught fluid dynamics. In addition to you, one of the institutions that deals with basic research is the Geophysical Department of the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics where we also have the Centre for Climate Research at the PMF. Accordingly, this is a great success for the Republic of Croatia, this significantly raises the reputation, raises the possibility of obtaining funds from various other funds not only from the National Recovery Programme and the Multi-annual Financial Framework, and will ensure that the profession, development of the profession and future of meteorology is developed in Croatia. I think there's got to be another congratulation here for everyone. I am particularly pleased that the projects include the integration of modelling or measurement of oceanographic and meteorological data, we are here as a country still relatively weak and need an additional step. That's why these Metamonic projects and everyone else will provide enough resources for such projects. I would like to see a similar step towards sea research, I think, and I am sorry that there are no colleagues of Bačić, I think we must, as Croatia, because we have declared the IGP that we should build a real research ship of minimum 50 metrics to show not only the strength of science, but that it is also a symbol of the authority of Croatian science and Croatian authority on the Adriatic. For now, as far as research is concerned, every institute, and we have three institutions in Rovinj, Split and Dubrovnik, each of them has one small boat that can't get out in the storm, can't go out in the south. Every more serious state has one larger research ship, I think Croatia deserves it. All in all, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we will, of course, support this. Congratulations to both the ministry and Mrs Picek and all DHMZ employees, and I believe this will be a significant incentive for further development of meteorology in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38603	Thank you, too. We move on to the discussion of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, respected colleague Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38604	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So RH has been since '92. Member of the World Meteorological Organisation, specialised UN meteorology, hydrology and related geophysical sciences, and actively participates in its programmes and continuously exchanges, participates in the international exchange of meteorological, hydrological and related data and products. On this basis, here is now an agreement or law that will confirm the agreement and establishment of the Office for Projects of the World Organisation, which will be located in Zagreb in the premises of the DHMZ. The work of the World Organisation's Project Office is expected to strengthen the Republic of Croatia as a Centre of Excellence for Meteorology, Hydrology in Southeast Europe, and to strengthen resilience to natural disasters under global climate change conditions. It will also facilitate the implementation of projects of the World Organisation in Southeast Europe during this period. This is indeed a recognition for the good and quality work of our DHMZ which thus becomes a leader in this area in this part of Europe. As we see the funds necessary for the implementation of this law are secured in the national budget totalling 340,000 kuna per year, and from how we have heard of the employee with full-time knowledge of the English language in the total annual amount of 76,000 kuna, which is ultimately gross and net gross 6,300 and net 4,800 kuna net monthly. So this is the thing to support our club will certainly support this law, and this opportunity would be used for some other details, reminded that a large number of amateur associations and meteorologists, e.g. Crometeo... IstraMet and similar, amateur action has great significance since the beginning of meteorological observations, amateur observers play a great role and have their own network of stations that cover almost all of Croatia, and are often called lovers or storm hunters, often connecting their love for meteorology and love for photography. For a long time, amateurs warned, and this is because, and I was just asking in my replica, so that Dalmatia was not recently covered by meteorological radar, but cyclones, thunderstorms, storms could have been predicted on synoptic maps thanks to the strong radars of our Italian neighbours, meteorological radars were purchased in Croatia more than 40 years ago but only for the continental part of our country, the system of defense from fighting may be here, guilty of the radar being placed exclusively in the continental part of the country, there were attempts by some 80 years ago to set themselves in Istria, the valley of Neretva, however, remained on attempt. What's the radar for? It detects where the rainfalls are, how intense they are, where the precipitation mass is moving, it can even distinguish a grain of beatings from a drop of rain or a snowflake. Also, we can determine the horizontal and vertical wind profile, while the northern Adriatic was covered by Slovenian and Italian radar, most of Dalmatia was, we can almost say, in a black hole, its area was therefore not covered by domestic or foreign radar, but here a year ago in February 2020 for the first time in history, Dalmatia was covered by radar measurements, at least by a large part of it, but it was due to a private Hungarian- Czech company. In progress, here, as we heard, is the project of the State Institute of METMONIC, which is planned to cover the entire Adriatic with 3 large-range radars. As far as I could find it, that's what I asked, it was announced to be online by the end of last year, but here, that's why I asked what stage they were in. I know the project, it seems to me, was wrong, not until 2032, but vice versa, until '23, so until '23. This project takes place. So this here private company was a bit faster than the Institute, even in 2019 they launched one radar in Pula, so last year the work was set up in Zadar, they have, I think, a contract and now they're negotiating one radar on Hvar, so here, it would cover all of Dalmatia. New technologies are also used in the world to monitor meteorological phenomena, especially cyclone, for example. The Netherlands first in the world developed systems to detect rainfall, their kind and intensity using the method of detecting the signal between cell transmitters, therefore even using mobile transmitters for its prognosis. So, here, if the Netherlands can also, surely in Croatia, we can use the expertise of experts and use new technologies to better monitor meteorological phenomena. At the end of the exhibition, you would have warned of one thing that I saw, just now, happening, this moment, which is that after 30 years Croatian Physical Society is being shut down. Most important, whether, after 30 years of work, the professional organisation of physicists in the Republic of Croatia, after 30 years, I have just seen the publication on one portal, so they reported yesterday from the Croatian Physical Society, namely, they were blocked by an account due to a final court ruling which did not completely cover the costs of accommodation and food to the company Studenski center for participants of the International Physical Olympics, which was held in 2010, so the obligation was taken over by the Ministry of Science. The Ministry of Science has not fulfilled that obligation. Here, I'm taking the opportunity that when we're talking about a subject that's related to physics, to call on the Ministry of Science to do everything in their power not to shut down this society, I believe that here you are, members of that society, so here I am, appealing, doing everything in our power and we from this position that 30 years of Croatian Physical Society, after 30 years of not shutting down. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38605	Now we'll move on to individual debates. First came the honorary colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38606	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, State Secretary, Director, colleagues and colleagues. We rarely have a chance in this House to speak very affirmatively, well, to feel good, to be proud of something. It's always our debate that we're up against something, so we're doing something in opposition, so we're saying it's something one way or another. This is something that we should all really be proud of together that Croatia is where it is, that in one science where it is, that the job of one institution is great. So there's another tradition and that tradition continues, but what's characteristic, you know, when someone does their job well, I kind of really dare the words great, then it goes under the radar, then it's normal for all of us, just then we see, look, they say it's gonna rain at 10 o'clock, and it's 10 o'clock and there's still no rain. That job's not easy, that job's hard. It's me, I'm, it's no news, I often mention sailing and when you're there, all the time, if you really want to respect the sea, you have to look at weather forecasts all the time, and there's a long time ago when you're in the Atlantic or when you're in these countries, it's very simple, because when the cloud starts you see it, and when you're in the countries where you have the Alps, then God, the Alps change and what happened yesterday, today is different, and I'm experiencing this whole contract and this topic in the context that Croatia is doing great, so that we have people doing a great job, that we have a meteorological institution doing a great job and that doesn't, we don't have to say, we't have to say, we're smart, wonderful and beautiful, that someone else told us. But what you'd like to say is something in the context of climate change. Climate change is a fact. Climate change is happening. You can only predict something on the basis of some long research and some forecasts, but on these forecasts you need to base some other, economic topics, the issues of your country's development, the topics as soon as the state deals, the topic that will be in agriculture and I have to admit that otherwise climate change has intrigued me a lot and in the context of really all other things and then of course I went among other things and to sites and meteorological and watched little what world institutions are doing about it and everyone is warning me about the problem of rising the sea levels that will be. The plant world will adapt, the animal world will adapt, and people will have to adapt to some things, ten years ago the United Nations started to warn us that we will have migrants or that we will have migration because of climate change because people will no longer have a place to live, so if someone is going to really do the same thing to the end, if someone is going to have to go to the first water day, they will find a place to live somewhere else. I was of course interested in the context of climate change in terms of Croatia, and I must say that what I'm basically thinking about is always a topic, my theme is always spatial planning and to see what is in the future development. And then, among other things, there was a conference on the topic of sea level. So, my dad who hasn't been with us in a long time, he's been gone for 20 years, so he said before, we have a cottage in N. Vinodolski on... He says if I'm going to experience being the front row of the sea, so that was the way he talked about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What experts are dealing with, I absolutely respect both scientists and experts and I really appreciate when someone is doing a great job and doing a professional job and when they are willing to say everything good about the job, they point to 3 critical points in Croatia. One is the island of Krapanj, which if there is a rise as predicted, I'm afraid there will be no such thing as swimming. The second is the Neretva valley where we now see saltwater and everything else and the third topic is Vransko lake. I'm absolutely sure that we have to deal with it now, so these last nine seconds, absolutely excellent, so this is something we should be proud of, what we all have to say Croatia really has One activity we can be proud of. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38607	Thank you very much. Stay because we've got replicas, first order of business, colleague Jelkovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38608	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, yes, this is something that we should all be proud of and I think that as a society, we would be much more healthy to say, more healthy, to point out good and positive things rather than just grizzly and always look negatively at everything. As far as what's going on here is concerned, I think that in addition to the commendation and the principal needs praise and all the employees, I hope that we will invest a lot in future personnel, as far as this is concerned, because without personnel and without people, there is no further progress but I also hope, especially because of this contract and our future status, that we will also have support for equipment in every respect because it is very important because of all the changes that we feel and see and the consequences and as these floods, earthquakes, etc., I think this is very important. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38609	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38610	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelkovac, yes, I have to admit somehow to everyone, you see that not much has been reported for the debate, it is when some of the topics are such, you come here and then you start from all the weapons, but I feel good, really no matter what I am, I am the opposition here already, I feel good when I can tell my people, we have experts in Croatia, we can be proud of them, so not that we say we have, but someone else recognized, I feel good and have no problem praise, as I have no problem and say this is absolutely wrong. My people, you've made a mistake. You'll be here in six months, there'll be changes and additions to that law because you've made a mistake, you're doing wrong, I have no problem, I don't have a problem, but I don't have a problem, and I don't think you should compliment, because if you have some tradition of something, if you have good results, so why don't we come from this pay phone and tell my people, it's a commendation to our science, it's a commendation to people who do that job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38611	Second replica, fellow Shimičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38612	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, let me also join the praises of DHMZ, all employees and clear with Director Branko Ivančan Picek at the head, for all the good they do. And you've well noticed that the debate here is tolerated and you're one of the few MPs who's quite tolerated and respects the arguments and why this tolerance is here, because you're talking about scientific norms, because the measurements are those that are real indicators and you don't have the interpretation of legal norms here, so anyone who wants to and in any way can interpret them can interpret them. So, if we were to benefit more from tolerance, the arguments would certainly be better here. And your question for the end, how are we going to use this science to help our fishermen, our producers? In the protection of the work they do? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38613	So thank you very much for asking. So, you can always use science. It's not science, it's not science, it's not science, so someone's getting something like that and everything. Science is there to apply it, to take care of it, to really read it. I always mention the experiences I have and I think that when I have a bad one, I talk about bad ones, I talk about good experiences. So, at the moment that we're sitting here, they find satellites that know exactly how many of us are here and they even know how much of a mask color is on our faces so we don't say anything else. This is all you need to apply and you need to be able to use it. So this is something that is actually applied and must continue to be applied in agriculture and fisheries and in all other activities because climate change is facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38614	Now it's time for your colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38615	Thank you very much, esteemed President, dear colleague. Here I would join the congratulations and you actually encouraged me by your exposure by mentioning actually the sea level. And here, on one occasion driving towards Zagreb, morning shows of high quality where they have very high-quality conversants talked about exactly what is going on and how much the sea level has been rising over the past 5 or more years and what it means, and since I come from the coast, then it is very important for the organisation and for predicting life in the future actually us in such areas. It is also very important to show exactly how many quality people, self-secret people we have working, which contribute to the visibility of Croatia, and what does this mean in terms of the world economy at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38616	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38617	Thank you very much, colleague Peric. That's the way it is in your life when you're responsible, when you consciously do your job, then it's normal for everyone and it doesn't cause you any turbulence. And likewise, if you come to this pay phone and do such a decent debate that is moderate and reasonable, it will not interest anyone. But if you come and say "it's no good", "it's no good" whether you have arguments for it or if you have no arguments for it in that way you get attention. Everyone's their picture, everyone's who he is. I always appreciate hardworking, smart, capable people. You know because for all of this, you can be smart and capable, you have to be valuable. So you have to do it worth doing that with results. Always, then, we are always less esteemed than when someone outside says, “Look, he is to you” and then you wake up and say, “Look, really, he is here, so I didn’t take care of it. ” Well, my people, that's a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38618	Let's go to a colleague of Pavić's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38619	Thank you very much. So respected colleagues, the esteemed speaker of the assembly, would join this community of opposition and ruling on topics and sciences and meteorology and research. Why? We have seen for example many countries, and in particular the United States would point out that I was on a State Department scholarship on climate change, and where one party says "we do not believe in climate change". This leads to mistrust in society, mistrust in science and scientific research. So this agreement we have is very good for healing divisions in society so that colleagues can continue their research and that this is not a political issue, that science has its arguments, we can, we can't agree on different approaches, but it's not a question of whether someone believes or not, it's a question of scientific research.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38620	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38621	Thank you very much, colleague Pavić. I also share the debates with those worldly, I share those that are politicians and where you speak your own political views and I share those that are exclusively professional. This is one debate that is this third category. Of course, when climate change occurred, it was Mr Trump who made a big mess on the world's political scene, among other things he was the one who went out and said climate change, climate change doesn't exist, it's fiction. Of course, nature immediately returned to him, and I don't have to tell you how much it is and you know well how many storms were possible and everything else in the United States seemed to me the second day after he said it. Let's say, now, as far as I can tell, the theme of the protected coastal belt in the Republic of Croatia was created on the subject of research that was in the United States on Michigan lakes in the 1970s. So they were investigating there, and we did it through certain legislation then. introduced into their legislation much, much later. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38622	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38623	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues, you have opened up and mentioned an important topic of increasing the sea level, you have mentioned an example of the island of Krapnja and I think it is important to add that it is important to realize that it is not something that will happen to another generation but that it is happening now. We even have states that disappear in Vancouver, for example. in the Pacific, so that's what happens in this generation. Now what is politics supposed to do? It seems to me that your debate shows one direction that we all agree on, which is that it is no longer seen in silos, so the economy, industrial policy on the one hand, and the climate will be dealt with by some other team, but rather connected. You said that in terms of spatial order, the government, for example. It seems to me that the economy and sustainable development are well placed in the same portfolio, but in this it is likely to continue to work in such a way as not to be by silos but to be an integrated one effort.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38624	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38625	Thank you very much. I always advocate an integrated or integrated approach in which you take care of everything. I always say that about that resistor I know about. I had a professor, too. Mohorovica, it was me, the esteemed representative Pavić, when he referred to Prof. Mohorovica, I had a professor, too. Mohorovic's son who was my favorite and best professor, so he didn't fall an apple far from the tree, even more, but that. So, the approach that we have in Croatia to make sure that it's not every island, it's the worst thing for you when every one, every resort is an island, and then you don't have any boat driving, so you have to take care of everything, about all the elements. Today we need to think about the kind of Croatia we want in terms of the economy, in terms of the number of inhabitants, in terms of only 2030,... 2030 and 2050. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the elements is this element of which the esteemed director deals with along with all her associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38626	Thank you. I thank the MPs of the Dark-Taritash. We are now going to another individual debate, dear colleague Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38627	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed representatives of the promoters, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Climate change poses a growing threat in the 21st century and is a challenge for all mankind because it affects all aspects of the environment and the economy and threatens sustainable development. In particular, they affect the number and intensity of weather accidents from extreme rainfalls, floods, storms, droughts to heat waves and fires, and there is an increase in air temperature, soil, water surfaces, rising levels and... the sea also spreads the dry areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to having a strong impact on the environment, climate change and the impact of economic sectors, especially agriculture, forestry, fisheries, energy and tourism because the success of these sectors depends largely on climate factors. In addition to increasingly pronounced climate change and weather extremities, meteorological and hydrological service is a service to all state and civil society institutions, it is important for the needs of sustainable development of the country's defence society, education and management of energy and water resources and food production. The disasters and climate disasters are linked in time, climate and water, growing around the world and leading to the loss of human life and restoring the possibility of economic development of the affected area for several years and the whole decade back in the Republic of Croatia on average 70% of all damages and economic losses from disasters belong to meteorological and hydrological factors, except perhaps that statistics mean especially these two major earthquakes which here do not have some influence of meteorological and hydrological factors. Therefore, information on weather, climate and the state of the sea and water and its extremes is an integral part of each state's strategy for managing and reducing the risk of disasters. Since 1992, the Republic of Croatia has continued to participate in the international exchange of meteorological and hydrological and other related data, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia has supported the establishment of an office, the conclusion of an agreement on legal status and the operation of the Office for Projects of the World Meteorological Organisation in the Republic of Croatia and I see that we will unanimously support it from these discussions. In the work of this Office for Projects of the World Meteorological Organisation, significant social and economic benefits are expected, primarily... Strengthening the Republic of Croatia as a seat of excellence for meteorology and hydrology in Southeast Europe and strengthening resilience to natural disasters under global climate change conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] DHMZ is actively involved in the adoption of world policy and monitoring of the World Meteorological Organisation but primarily takes action to meet the growing needs of citizens and institutions of the Republic of Croatia for information and these are primarily early warnings of extreme weather and hydrological events, adaptation to climate change and the use of renewable energy, wind, water and sun. In building the resilience of society to these extreme events, there is a need to establish a high-quality and comprehensive network, measuring, with this aim DHMZ launched comprehensive projects in 2017 to improve these measurements, the first project is the modernisation of the meteorological monitoring network in Croatia, METMONIC, the second project is the VEPAR, which is implemented by Croatian waters in order to reduce the risk of floods and the third AIRQ, a programme for expanding the state air quality monitoring network. These projects will significantly contribute to improving the quality of measurement and ensure automatic availability of measurement data without specific demand and requirements for both citizens and institutions. For more than 160 years, measurements have been carried out with the Grič Observatory, and this opportunity would congratulate and thank the DHMZ as an institution that has a great reputation in the Croatian public, with its projects continuously improving the quality of products and services by introducing new technologies and equipment, which ultimately means greater safety and comfort of the lives of all citizens, thereby contributing to the protection of nature and sustainable economic development. And here for the end he would only praise and thank all scientists who contributed to the development of meteorology and hydrography in Croatia and who, with their knowledge and expertise, helped establish the Office for Projects of the World Meteorological Organisation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38628	Thank you. You have two replicas, first fellow Shimičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38629	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, here we are witnessing dramatic climate change, therefore polluting rivers, seas, cutting forests, how can science convince corporations that not all profit is because we are actually living in a time of consumerism when in fact only profit is important and the planet we live on every day is getting worse and worse for life? And what can we do today to get better tomorrow, or is it already too late for many things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38630	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38631	Thank you very much. So I think it's never too late as it is said, so we have to take the first step and the European Green Plan is working on this very principle that by 2050 Europe is becoming neutrally bound to greenhouse gases. Under the Paris Agreement adopted in Europe on Climate Change, countries are obliged to operate in two directions, meaning reducing CO2 and not getting more than 1 to 1 degree Celsius or pre-industrial period, as well as other measures that would reduce the damage to climate change means all that industry needs to do, not just air release and water pollution and everything else, means that when financial or any profit, they have money if it works wrong, so they can pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38632	Second replica, colleague of the Tale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38633	Dear colleague, I agree with you that climate change is a big problem today, for our society, but it is also a global problem. One way to solve it is, of course, environmental protection. Sea protection, in which, unfortunately, often ends a large amount of plastic, forest protection, drinking water protection. Of course, except for the environmental protection itself, which is one way to combat climate change, another way is to encourage the development of science and technology. The development of science, the development of technology, e.g. The development of electric cars that do not pollute the atmosphere, such as so far, cars that go to hydrocarbons. What needs to be mentioned in particular is how we as a society can do this, how politically we can do it, one sure of the way is to always encourage tax reliefs and money returns for development, to invest in research and development in order to promote the development of science and technology in our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38634	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38635	Thank you. It certainly encourages science and promotes society and improves all the environmental measures to be taken. I think the only problem is that you can't take care of it financially because all that part costs, so you need support, as well as the countries themselves, and all the world's industries and corporations to get to clean technologies because we simply need to reduce the impact on both air and on the ground and on the water from the pollution produced today, to say life and today's industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38636	Thank you, fellow Cosic. It was about individual debates. We remain final on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected counterpart, Pavić, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38637	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Climate change is certainly our biggest challenge in the future. If there were no crowns, I think we'd just be dealing with climate change. When we look at the total CO2 emissions, the EU is responsible for around 10.10.5% of emissions, global emissions. The total emissions we produce for air traffic is 1.5%. So to actually achieve the goals we set ourselves until 2030 to reduce 55% of the EU's CO2 emissions and stop flying or reduce flying, as we now had to do with the crown, we have solved only 4-5% of the global problem. That says enough when the United States, India and China together produce 50% CO2. That is why this is a global problem, we need to sit together and I am glad that the EU is the leader in solving this problem and that Croatia is part of this and that a good part and future funding of 24.2 billion euros that Croatia has received through the National Recovery Programme, the multiannual financial framework will just go green. The fight with climate change will greatly strengthen Croatia with the establishment of such an Office. The reputation that we receive through the World Meteorological Organization is important, once again thanks and commendation to all who have participated in this. What seems to me from the debate, that it is possible to further improve a little, and this is a combination of fundamental sciences and operations itself, and there may be little going on and this silo that some colleagues have pointed out, given that fundamental science is under the Ministry of Science, operatives under the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, and that is why I think that building a new building, as well as the Centre for Climatelogy at Borongaj, is an additional incentive. The climate research in Croatia has therefore started from the PMF, from the geophysical department, there are the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, the Institute of Oceanography and Fisheries, the Croatian Hydrographic Institute and many other institutions that are now starting, but the centre of the profession is the PMF in Zagreb. There's a study of different projects, academics... He had one of the first projects on climate research and sea level, and I'm sorry that no more colleagues are Mrak-Taritash, but the projections for rising sea level, the Adriatic is here closed sea and we are in a more favourable position are 60 to 90 cm to 2100. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleagues are in the business of modeling a barrel, my colleague... , her colleague Herceg-Bulić established the Centre for Climate Research of the PMF, colleague Klaić of Limnological Research, and the physics of Lakes, Plitvice Lakes and many others, therefore, this PMF is not only the center of science, fundamental science, but also the centre of where and DHMZ draws when and what I think needs to be further enhanced is strengthening, I will be free, state secretary and organise perhaps a meeting in which the Ministry of Science would be able to strengthen it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to make a little more reference to the work and associations through the European Social Fund, it is funded 3.6 million kuna that 10 associations from the area of climate change get together with scientific institutions to work together on policy, hence making public policies and that is an additional incentive, so one thematic network went for climate change, I was also shocked, my colleague Puljak with Croatian Physical Society, I was a member for many years, I worked the world year of physics, as a post-graduate student brought Nobels, and I will personally engage in solving this problem. Finally, I think Croatia deserves one big research ship, it goes into this part of fundamental science, 50 metrics that can come out on any condition on the Adriatic. Overall, on behalf of the club, we support this, we think that the establishment of the World Meteorological Organisation Office will mean a great leap and development of Croatian meteorology and geophysics and I congratulate everyone involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38638	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38639	Thank you. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Just two sentences, so I'm obliged to honor my representative, Puljak, to say, so the planned six meteorological radars, the public procurement is over, contracts for purchase have been signed. The first radar will be installed on the Debeljak near Zadar by the end of this year, the other five will be installed from '22 to '23. in the area of Labin, Stone, Sljemen, Bilogor and Gradities. And finally, I thank all of you MPs and MPs on behalf of DHMZ employees for publicly commended for their work and thank you for your support for passing this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38640	Thank you, too, but you'll have to stay here for a while. We have one replica, dear colleague Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38641	Thank you, Mr. President. State Secretary Horvat, the World Meteorological Organization Project Office that will be established here, is also an office for Southeast Europe. I'm curious about what countries in Southeast Europe are agreed on this project cooperation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38642	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38643	I thank you, Your Honor. So, all the countries that are in so-called. The EU's 6th region, or Europe's not the EU, I can't count all these countries here right now. So, you would improvise if you started picking up, they were defined by that region 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38644	Thank you, but you can look now and answer the MP, not now here but later, it's not hard to read. Thank you all for participating in the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I also thank our representatives of the government. I also thank our representatives of the government. We are now going to: - Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2021-2024. The applicant shall be the Government pursuant to Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 130. Consumer protection laws. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. And now I will ask that, on behalf of the applicant, an additional explanation that respected Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Natasha Mikush Zigman. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38647	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Appreciable MPs, esteemed SS representatives. Here is a proposal for a national consumer protection programme for the period from 2021-2024. The National Consumer Protection Programme is a strategic document that we adopt or propose under the Consumer Protection Act. It sets objectives, measures, priority areas and activities in the implementation of this policy, i.e. consumer protection policies for the four-year period. This proposal has been prepared in cooperation with all stakeholders involved in consumer protection policy. I must say that this is an extremely inter-resort area, i.e. that it is an inter-resociative document in which the role of the Ministry of Economy as the holder of that policy is to cooperate with all stakeholders in the consumer protection segment, but it is also important to say that many of the measures contained in this programme document is, therefore, in the sense of the implementation of institutions dealing with the individual or area of food quality control or the area of financial services, telecommunications so that, in fact, through this programme, one large number of institutions is actually the bearer of these implementing measures. In the design of the programme's draft, all bodies that are the holders of certain sectoral areas were involved, then representatives of the business community, namely HGK, HOC, HUP, we included representatives of local and regional self-government units, so cities and municipalities, also civil society and consumer protection associations. We all know that we did in early 2020. Faced with a crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic, it has not only created difficulties and problems in other aspects of our daily life but has also reflected the question of consumer habits and consumer rights and may have highlighted in some way additional weaknesses that not only Croatia but also other countries are facing in the protection of consumer rights. The pandemic has just highlighted in some ways the need to establish a better, stronger framework for consumer rights and that we are also working in this way during the future period. I must say that this national programme is in line with the new EU consumer strategy presented by the European Commission at the end of 2020, and therefore also put emphasis on the digital aspects of consumer protection and on strengthening sustainability for sustainable recovery. So let me briefly state what priorities are contained in the national programme and how we actually propose to work in a four-year period. The first priority concerns further harmonisation of legislation at national level. In particular, during the period of implementation of this national programme, we plan to transpose the provisions of the Directive on the modernisation of consumer protection rules at EU level, so that the new Consumer Protection Act, which we plan to prepare by the end of this year, will ensure that consumers are better informed by traders before they enter into contracts themselves. New rules are introduced to prevent unfair commercial practices. We also plan to regulate the dual quality of the product and, as I have already said before, contribute to and ensure better protection of consumers in the digital environment and online shopping. What is extremely important is the adoption of the Parliament and Council Directive on representative claims for the protection of the collective interests of consumers, which enables the same requirement not only to determine consumer rights violations but also to demand the compensation of damaged consumers at the same time so that it is also one of the directives that we are going to transpose into the Croatian legal system. Furthermore, the second important aspect is to strengthen market surveillance. This important role is played by a state inspectorate whose jurisdiction is the largest part of the rules relating to the protection of consumer rights in terms of enforcement supervision. The State Inspectorate has also been designated as the single liaison office responsible for coordinating the implementation of the Regulation on the cooperation of national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection regulations. The emphasis of the State Inspector's work will certainly be on protecting those products that pose a risk to consumers on the Croatian market, or informing consumers about potentially dangerous products and of the surveillance of their release into the Croatian market. The second, pardon or third area in which we will work intensively is the digital environment mentioned previously. Thus, during 2019, two directives related to better integration of this digital dimension into the protection of consumer rights were adopted, so-called two digital directives which are just about to ensure that consumers who are increasingly contracting digital contracts in an online environment are protected and that clearer, better, more precisely establish the rules relating to the purchase of goods by this means, thus of course ensuring better information and protection. The next area relates, or is a priority, to fostering sustainable consumption and energy efficiency policies. In order to promote exactly sustainable consumption and energy efficiency policy, and in order to reduce the consumption of resources that should, of course, be preserved and saved, too, in order to reduce and reduce greenhouse gas emissions and pollutants, we plan, in cooperation with, of course, the rest of the resolution bodies, to carry out activities aimed at informing citizens about the benefits arising from the circular economy. So, in particular, here is the ministry from which I come, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development will continue to work on the award of EU Eco-labels Eco-Label and the national sign for environmental protection, a friend of the environment. These are codes assigned to products or services when they meet high environmental standards and are placed on products in such a way as to be direct information to the consumer that this product is less burdensome to the environment and, of course, to encourage consumers to buy them. Further areas that are extremely equally important are financial literacy. We plan to carry out a series of educational information activities aimed at raising the financial knowledge of citizens from the earliest age, so from school age and of course through further generations, which will play an important role for institutions dealing with financial services and education on financial literacy. It is the Ministry of Finance, the CNB, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the Ministry of Science and Education, so if we talk about that segment of education, so our youngest inhabitants and also a special community, so the Croatian Association of Employers and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. One of the important, one of the important areas of information and quality for our citizens about food safety. Therefore, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, we plan to carry out activities that are related to the education of consumers on food. The consumer’s awareness of the identity of the product and certain markings such as the protected designation of origin, the protected geographical indication or the traditional speciality guaranteed will be raised. And of course we will also work on informing consumers about preventing and reducing food waste. It is an important segment in view of the period ahead of us that also protects and informs consumers about the exchange of Croatian kuna with EUR. In July 2020, the Republic of Croatia entered the two-year participation process in the ERM II European Course Mechanism, which is a key prerequisite for exchange of currency and one of the formal preconditions for the introduction of the EUR. Therefore, a decision on the adoption of the national change plan for Croatia's kuna was taken in December 2020. Therefore, in the context of this consumer protection programme, a number of activities are expected to inform our citizens about the effects of exchange of currencies, about what can be expected, but also to act positively on traders or economic operators to adapt to currency exchange and to make currency conversion in a proper manner so as not to result in any consumer damage. Here, this is short, these are the short goals of the program. Of course I'm available to answer any more detailed questions. I hope you will support this program and we will all work together to meet its objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38648	We have a few replicas. The first one is Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38649	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Secretary of State, therefore, is an important document. Consumer protection as time goes by and how we will live in one different time and purchase the Internet and everything else has an exceptional importance, but we must take care of it and that we have a population that is getting older and older. It's a population that some of them even read and use computers, but you need to know that our people today, who are over 80, don't do it and there's a free phone. I'm not being lazy on a few occasions turned that free phone because I was interested, I'm looking at my mom's example here, my mother-in-laws who are respectable of life but normally live their lives and look around and wake up. Each time this free phone pointed to the fact that you can email the email address here and here. I think you should take care of it, and I'm curious to know what you're going to do to improve it because, so my mom, my mother-in-law or people who are 80, three years old won't. write mail than they'll call [[Intruder: Time.]] First the children, then the grandchildren. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38650	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38651	Thank you very much for your question. I suppose you refer to the phone that's open in our institution here at the ministry that's available for consumer information 3 days a week between 10 and 14, two lines are open and I believe it's possible that this happened even this time that, in the case of one line, the other line has not been answered. So, we are aware of this problem and we will work to remove it, among other things, and through the way we plan and in the future, support and work of consumer protection organisations because we will change, or we will, in cooperation with the national foundation, to change their funding system in a way that provides institutional support or finance for their basic activities so that we can better advise consumers among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38652	The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38653	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State seems to me that in the last 10 years we have done a lot to protect consumers and that what is proposed for the next period is a step forward again. However, it seems to me that, through the Consumer Protection Council, it is in a way that consumer rights are better protected especially in the pricing of municipal activities, municipal services, etc., which are provided at the level of local communities, but as far as product quality is concerned, it seems to me that consumer protection is still more declarative, i.e. consumers do not seem to have sufficient protection in such a way as to be able to access that protection themselves or have sufficient information on how to protect themselves in this respect. We see that there are products that don't always satisfy all declarations and quality, and yet we find them on our shelves, and I think that's where consumers expect Better protection. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38654	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38655	Thank you very much, it is certainly one of the segments that we plan to strengthen by just passing a new Consumer Protection Act that is now being prepared and, as I said, should be held at the government meeting in the second half of this year and by the end of the year. In particular, the dual quality of the goods is highlighted. There has therefore been a lot of talk in the public space and precisely the planned amendments to the Consumer Protection Act, and the European regulations plan to regulate, regulate or prohibit, if they can, and thus directly say, the placing on the market of goods bearing the same name but also differing in different Member States, thus planning and further protecting consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38656	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38657	Thank you very much, Vice President. Respected State Secretary in the proposal of the National Consumer Protection Programme for this period '21-'24. The great attention of the day is, in fact, informing and educating consumers, as well as the work relating to alternative consumer dispute resolution. We all know what it's like to actually settle disputes by judicial means long, complex and for the parties involved in this process, in fact, and most often expensive. In view of the above, it is certain that greater importance should be devoted to this very alternative system of consumer dispute resolution. This national programme itself states that at this time an alternative way of resolving disputes is actually quite unused. So here's what I'm curious about is what is planned in that part of it, or how if we can say to popularise or interest consumers in solving their disputes with each other in this particular way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38658	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38659	Thank you for your question. Yes, there is a system or bodies that are responsible for alternative dispute resolution based on the Law on Alternative Dispute Resolution, we also believe that this system has not fully recovered and that it could be used better and stronger by traders both on the other side of the consumer. What we are planning to do is step up the campaign towards the business sector and inform traders as well, therefore, about these options for dispute resolution. We have been intensively on the move in 2019, but, unfortunately, Covid has distracted us in public acts by saying that, as well as the organisation of workshops and conferences on such and other topics, it was not possible, therefore, to meet publicly, so that as soon as these epidemiological conditions are corrected, we will, of course, go out again to the citizens as well as to the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38660	Next replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38661	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, it is certain that the consumer is a driver of development because the supply of goods and services without consumption would in itself make no sense. It is also a task to provide consumer protection policy with adequate consumer information on their rights in one understandable way. I am interested in operationally how will this synergy work be carried out on consumer information, especially different age groups, on their rights and how can these rights actually be achieved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38662	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38663	Thank you very much for asking. Well, consumer information opportunities are numerous, they depend on the financial opportunities of the state budget among other things, but what we have been working on and what we are planning on doing, are certainly communication campaigns on the Internet, so the online possibility of then through media interventions, the organisation of meetings, or in cooperation with economic associations such as HGK, HOK, we also came forward when marking consumer day and publicly in such a way that we went out to public spaces and citizens through leaflets and shared certain information, so in direct contact, so all of these are opportunities that we can use to inform our consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38664	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38665	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. Well, we definitely see that consumer habits are under way. The assessment is that in the next few years, somewhere that will be temporary or that will permanently work 20 percent of people from home and spending precisely over digital possibilities will grow somewhere in the next year to two days, somewhere around 30%, such estimates are, therefore, obviously changing habits in that segment. One of the first platforms is, for example, about digital society, etc., the possibility of booking therefore tourist arrangements, Booking.com, Airbnb and similar things because there was always a problem with paying VAT, taxes, etc. So, in some ways, there was no protection at the beginning at the EU-wide level who will pay VAT in these situations, so please do this at EU level, in Croatia and what is being done in that segment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38666	Thank you very much for your question. I will go beyond the consumer segment, given that it refers to the tax system, so I would say that one part of it must still be solved by other legislative segments, however, but what I would like to add is that consumers who buy through the platform are often not aware that they are not actually contracting with the platform itself, but rather with the third person who is actually using the service of that platform, and we will, in that sense, also through the amendments to the Consumer Protection Act itself, commit the providers of such services or information to provide the right information to the consumer, to whoever is using the services of such platforms, on whom the contract is concluded, which are the obligations arising from that contract to avoid unfair commercial practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38667	Next replica, Honorable representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38668	Thank you. Respected secretary of state, the pandemic certainly makes consumers vulnerable, this vulnerability and without pandemic usually depends on age, gender, health conditions, not to mention people with disabilities who are certainly still being strengthened. I'm curious, you were talking about the financial literacy to be implemented... I agree, however, if 10% of households in the EU were late in 2018 with the payment of mortgages, rents, directors, etc., and were in danger of being over-indebted, we know as much as the number is blocked, but here, they show data from Europe that 1 euro invested in consulting financial, save 2 euros from social benefits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38669	Thank you very much for your question. Well, actually, that only confirms my previous thesis and priority that we put into the national programme that it is necessary to continue to work intensively on the financial description of the population from the earliest legs. So we certainly inform citizens, but we also teach children from school age, which means, which is money, how to manage money and how to ultimately plan your finances. I'd just say it's just a confirmation of what I said before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38670	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38671	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, ma'am. State Secretary, we are following the content of this national consumer protection programme that will certainly have a long and very high-quality debate here today, let me ask you once again for your position, it is related to the bank's fees for carrying out basic financial transactions of the population, which is the payment of directors, what we know for sure is that the estimates that up to 4 billion euros are in revenue on an annual basis and on the other hand, the law stipulates that payments are paid through current accounts and banks are deafened to consumer protection proposals not to charge for the same current accounts. Here, please just your attitude and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38672	Well, I'm kind of sorry that the issue isn't highlighted by the civil sector during the preparation of the programme itself, I must say that we have received 3 comments from civil society on the text of this programme, it was also on the National Consumer Protection Council, where the representatives of the associations are also involved, and I can only thank you for your observation and say that we will certainly take care of it, among other things, but this is not just a matter that is related to consumer protection regulations but also other regulations from the financial sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38673	The next replica is the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38674	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state. You mentioned in your presentation the parts relating to the quality of the product, we know that our euro-parliamentaries have been involved in this, but in the end, manufacturers have justified different quality by consumeraficences and there have not been any shifts, so here's what to do for our consumers to have the same quality as in some other countries? And also related to a number of eco-acceptable labels, which are really too much where consumers are often deceived and in a very large number, what do you do to make this negative, this one call green marketing in some way, if it can't be prevented and at least bring to a level of 5, 10% that might be acceptable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38675	Thank you very much for asking. As I said earlier, the Consumer Protection Act itself, which we are preparing now, will also regulate this dual quality area of goods in such a way that if the same goods are established, the goods of the same name, but the different composition and quality, will then be subject to inspection and sanctioning of such behaviour. As regards green watering and green labelling of products by the end of this year, one directive or directive on consumer empowerment and information is planned to be adopted at European Commission level, and through it, the obligations of traders relating to information on the meaning of the eco-label will be strengthened. We are, of course, taking part in this, and will implement this next in the Croatian legal system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38676	The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38677	Thank you very much, Vice President. Respected secretary of state. One of the priorities in the national programme is consumer protection when replacing Croatia's kuna with the euro. So it's very important that exactly what you have stated in the program is that in an adequate way, prices are shown in the euro long enough compared to the kuna and, in fact, the most important one of those courses that will be adopted that will actually be conversion. That is why I think it is very important to point out what the benefits are and to gain that consumer confidence precisely in this level of replacement that will occur very quickly within two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38678	I thank you for your question. This is indeed an extremely important area if we look at two years in advance now, given the process of introducing the euro. I have to say that this is often about the perception of whether the prices are, so the difference is whether there was a real price increase or whether the perception is such that they can increase prices because the examples of countries that have recently introduced the euro, and given that they have just taken these measures that we are talking about now, have led to a significant increase in prices did not actually occur. And this is exactly the segment in which we have to work significantly in terms of informing our citizens about the conversion of kuna into the euro, but also to act positively on traders to implement good practices in a way that does not damage consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38679	Next line of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38680	Thank you very much. State Secretary. The financial literacy of consumers will be implemented by the HGK, among other things, on the basis of the harassers of our entrepreneurs and similar institutions such as... and HANFA and others, but do you really count that HGK will help in the literacy of the Croatian nation, Croatian people, Croatian consumers who will have a much more difficult standard, much more expensive food, much less standard? I'd also ask you about quality, let's say teleoperate services. In Croatia we have the most expensive today, the most expensive telecoms we pay our bills with, and... services, and they have the highest profits in the Republic of Croatia. Is that a single market? Is that equality in the EU? Of course not. But that's why Croatia is the first in something, the first in corruption because of it is so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38681	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38682	Thank you very much for your question that is much broader than the programme we are talking about today, but I would just like to say that, regardless of the political position on membership in the HGK, we have indeed, in the context of the implementation of information measures primarily on the economy, so traders on consumer protection regulations, had very good cooperation with colleagues from the chamber, as well as exceptional quality cooperation with colleagues from the Croatian Communications Services Supervisory Agency, and I must say that, as you know, HAKOM is a regulatory agency that is both independent and independent and ultimately responsible for its work on HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38683	Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38684	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Mosta Club to take a 10-minute break, is this a significant question, so our consumers' program, that is. We are all consumers, and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the people of the Republic of Croatia on the EU single market have unquality products that are wrapped in the same cellophane as in other EU countries, and pay more expensive, these are facts. Also teleopers when you mention, the most expensive Internet that is paid and teleoperate services are paid by citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we have the most invaluable services. Is that a single market? And the biggest profit is a teleoperator in the Republic of Croatia. You must also make it clear that by introducing EUR, Croatian citizens will fall to the standard, and about financial literacy that will teach us the HGK that buys the most expensive pictures to themselves in, I don't know, hunt in Africa, kill animals ruthlessly to boast with their trophies, if it's the protection of Croatian consumers in the Republic of Croatia, it means it's not the protection of consumers but the protection of those who corrupt, those who encourage imports, those who pay more are our citizens because it's impossible to pull the parallel, it's impossible for us to be protected on the single market. That's not true. This is why Croatia when I mentioned teleopers first, first by corruption and has the most expensive Internet and worst signal. So our children now when they were online teaching in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia must climb certain hills to catch, the biggest peaks to capture their children's signal. These are services paid by Croatian citizens to foreign teleoperators who have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia compared to other countries, the highest profit. And that's the problem. and HGK to teach us literacy, that. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38685	Okay, I approve of the break, we continue to work at 11.40 and we'll use that as well for ventilation. [[It's 11:00.32.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.42 HOURS]] Here we go again with the work, the next replica of the distinguished representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38687	Dear Secretary of State Mikush Zigman, you are very well aware that the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection of the European Parliament met at the beginning of this month and last week and voted in favour of improving the Internet purchase. The problem highlights poor implementation of existing laws, lack of delivery or poorer offer of audiovisual content. In doing so, our EU Parliamentarian Biljana Borzana, who has devoted her entire past mandate to this topic, has noted that a large number of citizens are experiencing dissatisfaction especially in the event that they buy online and are detected to report from the Republic of Croatia that they are offered a different offer, a higher price or even blocked access. Moreover, in December 2018, there was a ban on such behaviour, so I wonder what will the Republic of Croatia do further to protect its citizens, full-fledged citizens of the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38688	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38689	Your Honor, I thank you very much for your question. On the one hand, of course control over the implementation of these regulations that are regulated and the Internet trade is in the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate, and that is precisely the segment that I highlighted in the opening statement that it will especially put emphasis on enhanced shopping supervision in physical form, but also especially in buying in an online environment since it predominates now practically due to covids and other circumstances. And we are transposing these two digital directives into our legislation through amendments and additions to existing and new consumer rights protection regulations, and therefore the rules relating to the purchase of digital content goods and digital services will be regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38690	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38691	Dear Secretary of State, in the national programme itself, you state the financial literacy and that as much as possible the financial description of the Croatian nation should be made available, and we welcome it. What we're interested in is how you meant to implement it because this text on two pages doesn't seem to be, it doesn't speak very much about the programme itself, and I think it's very important, or the Most Club thinks it's very important, given that we are below the EU average on financial literacy, and neither does the EU itself stand so well? And I'm asking you all this for the reasons that, for example, the national programme lists certain days, for example, savings, consumer protection, etc., and on the other hand, one Hong Kong, so for the whole month, is dedicated to financial literacy, and I purposely state Hong Kong as a country for the reason that it's one of the financial centres in the world. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38692	Thank you very much, sir, for your question. What is, the programme is or is a strategy of a roof nature, for this reason is not all the implementing details that we will certainly be dealing with during the next 4-year period, or we are already starting to implement the same measures. The activities of financial Describing and Education on financial literacy are primarily implemented through the CNB, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, they are already working on implementing these measures, both in schools and with a generation of slightly older age. We also go to schools through the Ministry of Science and Education, so these are all measures that we will implement in cooperation with our colleagues in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38693	Thank you, Secretary of State. Let's go now with club debates, the first club is the Center and GLAS Representative, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38694	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear secretary of state with an associate. So we have before us a proposal for a national consumer protection programme for the period from 2021 to 2024. And from that proposal, I'm going to read three sentences that I think are extremely important. One policy is consumer protection, one of the most important policies of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian consumer has also become a consumer of the EU's single market. Experience gained during the pandemic also showed the need to set up an appropriate framework to respond to such exceptional situations. We have nothing to add or subtract these sentences and that is also a particular basis for this proposal of the national programme. But what, of course, always comes "but, well, point" now, but what I think is extremely important would be good if, as a contribution or as an introduction to this programme, we had a certain analysis of the existing situation, we had the experience that we have so far, how much it was a violation of consumer rights, experience that had a state inspectorate, experiences that had certain associations would be good because then we base a national programme. So, some analysis that we've had so far, what we've found, what our problems are, and it seems to me it's, that it would be very good because when you go with some kind of, some kind of program then you base it on something and it would be good, the program is very easy to read, there's not a lot of pages, it could also be in the opening part of a few pages to say it. What is extremely important when it comes to the national programme is this part of the information, and I would say that it is both an important and a big role, I will not, I do not want to reduce the role of all other sectors that participate in it, i.e. the ministries and all others, but also the role of the State Inspectorate. The first role of information, so availability today is extremely important. What I said in the line of the secretary's hand, I'm going to do it one more time. We have a growing population. We have a population that's very active today, so over 80 years we have people who live most normally, work, I always say it my own examples, examples of my mom, examples of my mother-in-law who live themselves, they're great, they're active, they have quite a number of years, and every one of us might want it to be that way, and it's not a computer that calls them anything foreign, but when they have to do something, and when they say something, send an email, then it goes in a way that they call us first, then when we say good, it doesn't matter, it's the next thing they call grandchildren, who don't do it, but something they do. So we have to take care of it. We have to keep an eye on, we're gonna have a census at the 9th month of this year, and we're gonna see how old we really are. And we need to make sure that not all of them are in the same, in the same literacy, and that's why information is important, which is why it's important that the work of the associations, which is why, therefore, the consumer rights associations are part of the work being transferred, only seeing the relationship between the ministry and these associations. I come here from this second topic of the importance of the inspectorate. I really inspectorate whether he was in certain ministries or was now a state inspectorate I never experienced as someone who goes around and who only punishes, but I always had this educational role. I think that the inspectors who have decided to deal with this must have knowledge that is extremely important and large, not only in a corridor that monitors but also much wider. And that is why the role of inspectors is actually important in protecting consumers. It's important that the inspectorate shows that he's been somewhere, that he's done his job, that he's given the possibility that someone, now I'm speaking really theoretically, is correct, but the second time he's come to establish that, that and that. For what reason? We are a small country, there are few of us, when the inspectorate does so in Istria, both Dalmatia and Slavonia know it at the same time. The same is true for those who are coming, it is a statement that the Croatian consumer has become a consumer of the EU's single market. So the same way when it is known that we really care, that we protect our consumers, is how others will treat us. One of the big problems that we face is the food problem. We had here in the debate last week on issues related to waste, therefore related to waste that arises and one of the priorities that is at EU level, and I am sure that there must be a priority for the Republic of Croatia to prevent food waste, but related to this and preventing false or false declarations. We have false claims, we have false declarations especially when it comes to so-called. the green marketing where manufacturers falsely state claims on the acceptability of products to the environment in which case we see that that is not the case. It's something that when you in the central diaries or in any way using all the information options, you say that the state inspectorate has found that 10 products were wrong or a fake stamp at the same time it's something that's being read. And that's one way to prevent and prevent these frauds. We often have opportunities to see that some other products are on the Croatian market than other EU member countries. In the former term, our Europarliamentary Mrs. Borozan pointed to this, but continues to point out. And that is why it is important, so the Croatian consumer becomes a consumer of the single market. That market must be unique. We must insist on our policies, but in principle we protect our consumer. It is one of the elements and ways in which you protect your consumer. And I'm coming up with another topic that's been enough this week in the assembly, which is your energy efficiency. The topic of energy efficiency, the topic that you also know on products is, what is the level of energy efficiency. We discussed energy efficiency related to biodiesel, so yesterday or what it means and now every product is declared in a certain way. And we really need to encourage, we had one of the projects that was good, and that was the Energy Efficiency Fund to buy energy efficiency products, but you can see it anywhere. I have to say, I always like to speak my own experiences not to act smart and say I don't know about these things but to think that, that not every future generation should slap its head against the wall and go from the beginning but the experience that you should use. We, when we introduced certification or labelling of the energy class in construction, have introduced it because it was our obligation to join the EU. So, for six months there hasn't been any media that hasn't asked why, which is why, it costs us, it's going to pick us up I don't know what, of course you have that dry answer that was, it's our obligation, but the real answer is that we need to know what condition our buildings are in, that someone when they buy an apartment he needs to know how much that apartment consumes water, electricity, which is the communal compensation in what state it is, whether they're going to have to invest. Today, it's not a topic at all. Today, if it's on buildings of all public purposes, you have that certificate that's levels and energy efficiency. It's normal for everyone. I'm, of course, the one time I'm obsessed with the team every time I go in somewhere and watch you have, look at more residential buildings when you go in if you have every building has an energy certificate that says that energy class C, D, B reads a lot of things, really reads how many energys, what is the state and everything else. It's become normal, it's absolutely normal. There's another certificate after these earthquakes that I'm going to stand for, and that's an earthquake certificate that exists, which is in ours that we have in the technical regulations and it says there are four classes and I'm going to say that the buildings that are public purposes you have at the entrance and the certificate that says which is the earthquake class. Not to build up the subject of production at all, but to do so. Because that's the information about a certain condition. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38695	The next debate is in the possession of the Club of Representatives Mosta esteemed representative Zvonimir Troscott and Selak Rasudiæ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38696	Your Honor. Here, before I begin today with the presentation about this national programme that is in front of us today, I would like to take this opportunity to take advantage of my colleague on behalf of the entire Mosta Club, and to congratulate the entire HS on behalf of the whole birthday. Here's his birthday, so here's Dear Miro. I wish you a lot of happiness and a lot of success in life. Today, we have before us a proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme as we had opportunities to hear from 2021-2024 and in this speech, one segment would be particularly touched, which is a financial description. Financial literacy as such is the ability to understand and effectively use different financial skills, including the management of personal finances, the production and personal and family budgets, and the efficiency of personal investment and savings. Since financial education, consumer financial protection and financial inclusion are recognised as three essential components for the financial strengthening of individuals and the overall stability of our financial system, the fact that, according to the latest survey of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development known as the OECD's acronym below the average of the EU according to all the parameters taken into account, and we have also heard in the exhibitions that neither the EU as such stands very well on financial literacy. Watched through three components under number 1 of the total knowledge of finance, patterns of behavior under number 2 in relation to finance as well as e.g. the ability to save, pay the bills on time and plan future costs and, as the last component, under No 3, the position on its own financial liability. Under these criteria and studies are countries like Austria, Estonia, the Czech Republic and Slovenia. Until now, the above shows that there is a lot of work ahead of us as a state if we want to strengthen our citizens in such an important segment of their lives as finances and also ensure financial stability as a whole system. Although this programme mentions some of the initiatives we welcome in principle remain entirely unknown deadlines, intensity and evaluation criteria based on which clear and measurable goals could be set in raising the financial literacy of our Croatian people. Since there are no criteria by which we could assess the success of the programme, these two pages of the text are dedicated to financial literacy, not enough ambitious list for the time being and for the time being beautiful desires. I will give only one example, while our national programme lists the World Consumer Rights Day, the World Investment Funds Day and the World Saving Day in Hong Kong, which is the first financial literacy in the world for the whole month, is dedicated to the very subject of finance and financial description. Maybe that's why Hong Kong is one of the financial centers of the world. The strategy for raising financial literacy should therefore be rested on three key pillars. The first awareness is that the public's awareness of the benefits of financial education is increased to their financial well-being. The second is a stronger political will and the third cooperation between inter-resor institutions is in an efficient and clearly structured way. Many countries have made significant efforts in recent years to enable the implementation and provision of financial education in schools, universities and workplaces. However, the continued low level of financial literacy worldwide indicates that part of the puzzle remains missing. The profitability of large financial banks, but also low financial literacy, has generally led to major financial crises which have been the last since 2007. and affected our Croatia and we want to avoid that precisely with education in finance. And finally I want to point out. This national programme lacks ambition, at least visible and written, concrete projects and solutions, and is not clearly defined by all vulnerable groups that would like to be described because we cannot look at and treat everything in the same way and there are no objectives and tools to monitor the implementation of the objectives set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38697	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38698	Ladies and gentlemen. In order to even talk about this subject, we need to tell the truth first. And the truth is alarming, the truth is tragic, the truth is that Croats are the biggest monkeys in the EU, that Croats are the easiest to sow, that Croats are the ones who row over water or whatever else you want me to say healthy peasants, Croats are the biggest losers in the EU when we talk about consumer rights. In fact, this proposal says one untrue euphemism that hides the true state of things. It has been said that the level of information of Croatian consumers on their rights remains lower than the European average. That sounds okay, that sounds like we're hanging out there on average, but the truth is quite different, and the Croats need to know that. It is true that Croats at EU level when we talk about terms of purchase are the worst, not the worst, the worst. Sweden is best with an average score of 71.4 Croatia has 53.2. Croatia has the lowest confidence in public authority when we talk about buying, which concerns political will and political authority. Croatia at the level of consumer rights is the third lowest in Europe, and at the level of consumer rights where it is consumed in retail, they least know consumer rights across Europe. Well, then you're complaining to someone. Croatia has the second highest percentage of those likely to be exposed to some unfair commercial practices. Croatia has the second lowest percentage in the rulings and the lowest score in general in the ability to draw up these same lawsuits. And that also says something about the functioning of institutions. So Croatia is not below the EU average, Croatia is not about the EU average, Croatia is concrete, clear, unequivocal and simple when we talk about consumer rights worst in the EU. You're wrestling every day, the Croats have no idea about their rights, and even when they know something about them, then they can't consume them because their complaints aren't resolved, because those who complain have no idea that there are any rights spending at all. If we talk further about the EU level and what we do, it is signifiable that we can monitor here that consumer conditions and notifications will be met, given the fact that there is double practice in the EU. And what kind of double practice is that? Research has shown that there is a difference in quality. Let's just say one survey in the Czech Republic when samples of all food products were taken, 35% of them were different, poorer quality than in the old EU member states. From the lack of fish in fish sticks to excess sugar in candy. Ladies and gentlemen, this was years ago. It has been years, not days, not months, but years since double practice was discovered at EU level. So, injustice, discrimination, rowing of weaker EU members. And what's done? We read in 2021 how the legislative framework will change in the future so that it will be harder to repeat it. Well, at that pace where my dears are. Croatia will remain where it is now firmly established, which is at the bottom of the EU by consumer rights. And what I'm going to say in conclusion is that this is a list of beautiful desires, that green policies, that digital economy and rights editing in digital environments. But look at what the attorney general's report says. See the fact that municipal activities are thanks to an increase of 49% for the first time among the 5 most difficult problems facing Croatians. And then I'll remind you that our basic problems with consumer rights are those good old bills that say how small the debt is and don't say what it came from, so people can't complain and can be done. Telecommunications and the charging of services, only when we solve these problems can we discuss our green future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38699	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of the coat of honor, Mr. Grba Bujevic, please. I'm sure a respected representative can go to the scene. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38700	You can go to your seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38702	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, a colleague has been injured by the Rules of Procedure, Article 238 in paragraph 5 says it is to demean and insult the president or other MPs. In her speech, she called the Croats the biggest monkeys in Europe. Since we are all Croats here and that we are Croats, she insulted not only the parliamentary representatives but everyone else. I don't think a word like that should be spoken at all in the Croatian Parliament, so please give her a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38703	Thank you very much. I estimate that it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, although it is a matter of home, home education, culture, culture of dialogue, treatment, especially in this high home, but it goes to the cheeks of each of you. I won't give you a warning, I have to give you a warning because it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, no matter what I think of it. Here you are, raising the same breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38704	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, the demeaning of parliamentary representatives, this is an incorrect interpretation of my statement and it is not true that everyone here is Croats because we have not even counted it. It would be more useful to focus on what you are responsible for, and that is the lowest confidence in public institutions when we talk about consumer rights and the worst solution to citizens' claims when we talk about consumer rights. Because it's not that the Croats are monkeys, it's the problem that you made them monkeys.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38705	Well, that's this one, of course it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning, and I beg you don't insult anyone, not the Croats, not the Serbs, not the Czechs, not the Chinese, not the Indonesians, it's not a place here especially not that, it's nowhere to be, because insulting someone is talking most about who insults. Uh, what's this injured Rules of Procedure for?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38706	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238, I have not offended anyone. So, there are style figures, and if you say "monkey", that is Mr. Chairman of the metaphor, a metaphor based on the concrete facts that I have unequivocally cited, which refers to an EU survey called for by this particular document, which is merely being shown to us by the fact that it is incorrectly interpreting that we are below average. If being at the beginning of the EU by consumer rights doesn't make us monkeys, then I don't know what makes us. Maybe I didn't make it clear enough what... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38707	Yeah, I obviously didn't give you enough clarity just one warning, so based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. You too, colleague Kujundzic, have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what has been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38708	Thank you, Chairman. He's been injured. In 238, therefore, interpreting something that someone has said should necessarily draw along and understand what is said. However, even if the interpretation of what the lady said would be done. Selak was right, I think it's much more important, much more horrible to know that you live in a country where you rule for 30 years. This people, in a literal sense, make monkeys.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38709	All right, I'm telling you, too, based on the article. 239th notice. I beg you, first of all, let's not abuse the institution of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it has become an ugly custom, a custom that did not once rule in this assembly, and now it is constantly being abused. And secondly, please don't insult each other, don't insult people, don't insult people personally, it's not polite. It's a question of home education at the end, not just political respect for other colleagues here in this. It's something you never say, let alone in this high house. I'm asking you nicely. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will now speak the esteemed representative of Anja Shimpraga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38710	Dear Vice President HS, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. If we can say for some area that it applies to all of us then it is definitely a consumer protection area. All of us are under it because each of us participates more or less in the purchase or sale of certain goods or services or legally defined legal transactions and operates on the market outside of its commercial, business, crafts or professional activities. Our society as well as most other modern societies can be considered a consumer society because consumption has come to a high level under the influence of modern technologies and high productivity of labour, marketing policy, and the growth of living standards. Consumer habits change from day to day, we are influenced by different trends that are sometimes very difficult to follow, no matter how capable or financially written, especially when it comes to small letters that we all occasionally ignore. Given that this area is extremely dynamic, but also subject to change, it is clear that the National Consumer Protection Programme, which is ahead of us today, is a short-term plan because it is difficult to predict the development of the area of consumer protection in the long term, even if the possibility of unforeseeable impacts as was, for example, still taking place by the coronaryvirus. Some of the major priorities set out in this proposal for the period from 2021 to 2024 are further development of legislation at national level, further strengthening market surveillance in this area of consumer rights, improving consumer protection in the digital environment, promoting sustainable consumption and energy efficiency policies, and also protecting consumers when replacing the Croatian kuna with the EUR. However, what a bit confused me is the fact that such an important strategic document that will directly affect all of us has a form of programme, not a strategy, because its importance is unquestionable. As I said, this is about pure form, and many will say an irrelevant difference in the name, but this would give the document an additional dose of seriousness if it were called "strategic". What I was worried about was that the program did not get enough media attention, so only in a few news articles can we read parts of the program without any critical review being positive or negative. What about the public consultation that lasted 15 days at the end of last year? One single comment, as if it were a nonessential or secondary matter. We constantly ignore the area of consumer protection by not giving it a place in the social space it deserves. Perhaps it is one of the reasons that Croatia is according to the so-called European Consumer Light 2019 at the beginning of the Member States, according to consumer conditions, and the level of information of Croatian consumers on their rights remains lower than the European average, although this situation is slowly and improving. Recently, my colleague Jeckov and I participated in discussions on acts in the field of competition, and a parallel between the area and the area of consumer protection can be withdrawn. It is indisputable that there is a causal link between these two areas because one without the other and cannot exist and the state has no easy task of finding balance, clear balance and equal protection for both economic operators and consumers on the same market. Legal regulations in Croatia in both areas follow European standards either by harmonising either by unifying, but it seems to me that consumers are currently in a subordinate position. This also contributes to the lack of financial literacy of our fellow citizens and citizens, and the programme has more than justified, as one priority, further strengthening consumer financial literacy, which will be the primary content of the national strategic framework of consumer financial literacy for that period. Given that financial services occupy an important place, not only in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, but also in the lives of all citizens, consumers who are increasingly using a wide range of financial products for payment. The savings and financing of current consumption or long-term investment and the need for continuous training of consumer information needed to understand the information offered and to make informed decisions shall be imposed. Given that, among others, the Ministry of Science and Education has been tasked with strengthening financial literacy, it might be good to consider introducing a mandatory class in high school, which would already prepare consumers as high school students for what awaits them. What I was just saying is also the fact that financial literacy leads to immeasurable dangers in safe transactions and distance purchases. As already said several times for this speaker, the coronaryvirus has affected our lives in a number of ways, just as security payments and web stores in the course of the pandemic have experienced serious expansion and, throughout the EU, electronic advertising as a safe and fast way of paying, even as a hygiene measure, although there is no evidence that coins or banknotes are indeed a more significant risk of spreading the virus. The EU is also planning to encourage a cash-free payment method in the future. The logical question is whether our fellow citizens are willing to overcome all the differences that such payment and purchase bring with them. We all already know these famous stories that Coca-Cola and Nutell are better quality in our western states. In the absence of empty stories, they have proven research into which certain products sold in our country differ, whether by composition or by any other characteristics, from products sold in other Member States, while advertising, as well as sales, states that they are actually identical products. This is why it is very important for traders, for traders to be subject to stricter rules regarding consumer notification alone, and in this respect, double product quality will be arranged. Amendments to the provisions on unfair business practice will prohibit that treatment of traders and ensure the equality of Croatian consumers with consumers of other Member States. We all have a historic moment ahead of us. The exchange of swears with the euro and at that moment, every day we get closer and closer. It is not the questionable readiness of the state at that time, especially since many steps will be taken in that direction in the near future. However, it is necessary to educate the population as quickly as possible to bridge the gap as painlessly as possible, which will at least create the euro. For this reason, I appeal once again to the competent authorities to place financial descriptors as one of the priorities. However, although the priorities of the programme are clear and unequivocal, a more detailed plan of action should be made with precise implementation deadlines, if we want the programme to be complete and live in practice. We're all aware that plans and priorities are one thing, and their implementation is something else entirely. A prerequisite for the successful implementation of this programme and for the engagement of all of us who must insist by common forces on monitoring and achieving the prescribed priorities. The SDSS representative club will support the proposal of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2021 to-2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38711	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be the green-left block, and time will be shared by the respected representative Bencic and the representative of Matula. First honorary representative Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38712	I thank the chairman. Unfortunately, I have to say that I am really disappointed that this programme does not include consumer protection measures and activities on the market for financial services, despite the fact that the largest number of our citizens are concerned about their economic interests and rights being violated precisely by the lack of regulation of their rights in relation to financial institutions. I have spoken here many times, and I will continue to speak until this House decides to do something about it, about the situation of the persons who have been executed, who have been blocked, who are in a long-term account blockade, and especially about those whose debts have been sold to law enforcement agencies. I repeat, therefore, for years this Assembly has not found it appropriate to regulate the conduct of a claim collection agency which is now literally acting as a wizard, either in heaven or on earth, because they are not covered by a law governing financial institutions or credit institutions, because they are neither legally considered to be financial institutions. So then all those regulations and all those security, all those security barriers that we've made in laws, according to banks, according to other credit institutions, according to insurance companies, are not worth it for claim collection agencies because they're not financial institutions. I would therefore like to say that we have come to this situation so that, despite our amendments, you have voted Amendments and additions to the Law on Credit Institutions that regulates the issue of the sale of placements of banks, so what is called otherwise, debts, is in a way that does not recognise the specificity of selling the debt to consumers in relation to the sale of the debt of the business sector or legal persons. Therefore, debts, i.e. placements, are sold so-called. .../incomprehensible/..., there are also debts of private persons of our citizens and there are, of course, legal persons. However, there is one particular difference, data from legal persons are public data, their OIB, their address is public data. However, citizens' data, their OIB, their address, their phone number is not public data. It is personal data and is protected by other information and GDPR. I am interested in how it is possible that no one in this country has found it appropriate to regulate the issue of the sale of personal data by banks to the requesting agencies because this is literally the case. Because when you sell debt, so the bank when it sells debt, it sells the whole contract along with all the private data of the citizens that exist in it. And no one sees the problem. No one sees the problem that, on the basis of that, these demand agencies are harassing people 10 times a day, forcing them to recognize debts that are often out of date and making them threaten to take away their assets, pay for that debt. I don't understand why we'd like to, and we've also regulated this program, incentivizing literally interest rates, because forgive me, it's a loan, if you buy 30% of its value and you charge the entire debt, 100% of its value in all-powerful ways, right, and, of course, you're still charging interest and interest on the run, although you're paying for it, that's sorry, interest rate. And that's an extra profit. Because you have not earned it, you have paid 30, you have charged 100, you have charged for it so that, among other things, you have sold the house of that person and we allow it. And we don't regulate this program. I don't understand that. Therefore, the answer given by this programme to these complex, legal financial issues is consumer education, i.e. the famous financial literacy. I mean, don't be mad, but it's really eye rub and handwashing. Because there is no such literacy or illiteracy that will protect you from these lending practices, there is no such thing. It won't even protect you from the existential problems that led you to this debt situation. There is no financial literacy that can protect you from, for example, an example that I will tell you later in an individual discussion. So how will literacy prevent me from knowing the state and structure of my debt when the agency takes over because they don't want to tell you? How will literacy prevent interest from coming to me and when I pay the debt with the maximum amount that I can because interest is growing faster than those payments I can pay if I have, for example, a pension of 2700 kuna? How will it protect me from the fact that the state hasn't prescribed as some other country that when the interest is reached by the principal, they will stop flowing further so that they don't find themselves in a vicious circle of debt slavery? How to protect me from financial literacy, here I am asking you to explain it to me during your next address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38713	Thank you. The Honorable Representative William Matula will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38714	... Honored State Secretary with an associate. [[Specially enabled.]] What we have seen in this proposal, among other things, is that we also have links to the European consumer defence strategy from 2021 to 2025, there is certainly the same thing as the green plan, about being green, about this digital transformation that is of course important, I would like to say just at the beginning something that we all recognize. The 5G issue of the network that will come and is being operated by these operators who have already been told how much our consumers know how to bring in the unfortunate situations, mostly most of the people who cannot help this financial literacy, those who have been blocked, those who have received these accounts, are currently being held by the pandemic, so I mentioned data from Europe where 2018. 10% of the people in Europe were unable to settle their accounts, with us already alarming and even after the 2008 crisis, but now in Europe they also testify that the thing is multiplying. 5G network that comes and will certainly help a lot of things, but it will also help to make artificial intelligence and ours, household assistance from these devices, to make our devices more connected, to be more economical on the one hand, but we are currently witnessing it every day when we try to tap a portal or something, as much as we are fascinated by advertising, completely pointless advertising. When is it pointless? If I bought and looked for a product, interestingly that then, you noticed, months later it still offers me all such products even if you write a team inside and you type I don't need it, too, but I bought it, nothing, so they're still not intelligent programs, but soon I'll be, they just know what we want and what we need right now. When the Central Consumer Portal is typed, the partners are HANFA, HNB, HERA, I mean, a number of agencies that don't pick up the ministries that are listed, which are actually among the citizens I would say, infamous. My colleague was just talking about what happened when the CNB didn't respond at the time and how many years Franak had to do and the man was sitting here and what it had to do to put together all these people who were so terribly humiliated and brought over the poverty threshold, and no one here did anything right, I'm talking about the ruling party at the time, and now what we're going to expect, what kind of people who get the last possible variant will remain for the sake of doing and without an apartment, without anything and go straight to the homeless, and we see how many homeless they are. There's an association on the portal, there's a corner for consumers, you notice that because in associations of course you can't do anything good because you've been saying everything bad for years and there's a repeated public call You can't get those people from the association. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] that would really. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38715	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of whom the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38716	Thank you, dear Vice President HS, State Secretary with an associate. The national consumer protection programme for the period from '21. until '24. It is our topic today of this debate and at the very beginning I must express my regret on behalf of the SDP Club that we do not have analytical indicators about what it left us, which left us with the National Consumer Protection Programme that we adopted in HS in February 2018, which applied for the period 2017 to 2020. I must also mention that, in fact, with this adoption of the National Consumer Protection Programme, we are somewhat behind schedule, it was already due to take effect from 1.1.2021, and here we are today, in the near middle of the 3rd month, discussing it here in the Croatian Parliament. But we still have a shift in view, since we've also brought the last national programme if I'm not wrong with the year, the year behind. The national programme ahead of us is a strategic document and its main goal must be to strengthen the consumer in order to become an active participant in our market. That's what we'll all agree on together, and we'll say it's our main goal. The legislative framework should therefore be improved in such a way that new solutions are accompanied by modern forms of trade so that, certainly, in the section of the acts to be adopted during the period covered by this programme, work should be done to develop implementing frameworks, taking into account in particular that the increasingly widespread form of trade is the one on the Internet, therefore in the digital environment. In the introduction today, the secretary of state said that new legal solutions on the implementation of the directive are being prepared and precisely in this digital environment, if I understand that correctly. The emphasis should be further placed on the safety of the product, on consumer information, on the effective cooperation of inspection bodies in the case where a trader of one Member State violates consumer rights in another EU Member State or where these infringements affect more markets. Of course, cooperation with consumer protection organisations is also important for the purpose of implementing the education and financing of consumer counselling centres. Today, when we talk about consumer protection in Croatia, we are not just talking about the protection of Croatian consumers from Croatian traders, from Croatian distributor producers and others. Since we know that we have a common European market, we are actually talking about a lot more consumers, a lot more countries that we should also protect in this case on the Croatian market as part of the European market. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing and whether it is working on equating the quality of products throughout the EU, including those that come to our market, which are equally marked with us and in Germany or other countries. It has already been, there has been a question here today for this speaker, but it is important to ask him again because since December 2018. We have a directive in which there must be no discriminatory situation regarding the quality of the product itself in the EU. It seems to me from some of the indicators that we have and in fact the objections of our fellow citizens that we still have such a practice, so here we are particularly interested in what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing to lead to the full equalisation of the quality of products throughout Croatia, especially from the aspect of the Croatian market? We are also interested in whether the Resort Ministry has data that, as far as our traders are selling goods online, and just as we are aware everything is going in the digital direction, how much in fact our traders are in line with the regulations and some modern practices in the EU, how much they are trying to create manipulative practices, or by deprive consumers who are necessary for consumers to actually and informedly order a product, do they make extra profits, means by misleading consumers in some way? Here from this pay phone on behalf of the SDP, I would also like to recall credits in Swiss, problems solved by our government, and that consumers have received, in an appropriate manner, information about all the risks involved. So at the moment of signing these contracts with banks, you'll all remember well, our consumers didn't have full protection of their rights and they didn't really know what they were expecting by signing those contracts. Finally, the state and somehow rectified itself and acted responsibly towards all its citizens in such a situation, which shows the latest rulings for these loans. In the Republic of Croatia, consumer rights are frequently violated, consumers cannot protect themselves because they do not have complete information in the mass of cases. Since 2005, they have been actively assisted by various consultations that existed in the Republic of Croatia, their involvement, the publishing of the work of the consulate recognised the public as addressing the same with confidence, recommending them with oral surrender and with their help, successfully resolving their disputes. In principle, each consultation center worked in the way of associations, they returned several tens of thousands of kuna to the citizens on a monthly basis, and each year they resolved more than 25 000 disputes by consulting others for rewarding them with a number of praises from Croatian citizens. These praises also came from the level of European and international institutions, as many as 3 consumer alliances and associations outside these alliances were entered on the European Consumer Protection Policy map in 2018. By joining the European Consumer Protection Organisation, we have become the relevant consumer protection factor in the EU, we, the Republic of Croatia. Today we operate without a consumer protection counselling in the Republic of Croatia, which is as if consumer protection is a dead letter on paper. At the same time, legal uncertainty, dishonesty and the number of blocked and dissatisfied citizens are increasing, which is certainly not and should not be the interest of any government of any policy. We advocate that tendering should be ensured for consumer advice, for consumer protection organisations consultations in order to enable smooth work important for legal security and quality of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, Croatia is on consumer rights, as has already been pointed out here, at the very bottom of the EU, for several years in a row. The last years in Croatia have been shut down, as I said, consultations, the one in Osijek, Zagreb, Split, the reason is, as always, the money or the resolution ministry has changed the way consumer associations finance and has taken over their role. A series of associations and peace centres due to non-quality competitions by the ministry's resolute ministry, therefore, has ceased its work and this should be the mechanisms for fighting for consumer protection. In particular, in the first year since taking over consumer advice, the ministry has resolved almost four times less complaints than has been dealt with in the consultations. It is also mentioned here how important this direct contact with the consultants is for the citizens, direct contact that can be made via the telephone where they can immediately and now get an answer to their complaint. Such situations are no longer available, they are all more or less addressed to e-mail communication and it is certainly not something that should be exclusive and that we can only support as such. Associations have a hard fight against large market players, these market players have been present for many years on the Croatian market, it is even a timely confession by a resolute minister, we have frequent situations where consumers cheat in situations where they are promised phones in their living rooms for 1 kn or similar situations, fast Internets and the like, and when contracts are actually realised and signed and when all those fine letters are read eventually, then it turns out that actually consumers can no longer protect their rights and that they are in some way deceived. So, we urge that citizens in the Republic of Croatia be returned to the current free protection of their consumer rights available to them in consultations, we believe that this is extremely important for consumer protection and we have a number of examples to discuss in individual debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38717	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is one of the Homeland Movements on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Vucilović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38718	Thank you very much, highly respected chairman, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'll use the method of deduction this time, so I'll start with the EU. Namely, art. The 114th and 169th EU functioning contracts aim to ensure that all consumers in the Union, regardless of where they live, travel or buy, enjoy an equally high level of risk protection and threats to their security and economic interests and increase the consumer's ability to protect their own interests. In this context, the EU is working really hard to protect consumers and to remove all these irregularities, and in this context, it is also necessary to look at this document that is ahead of us, but it needs to be pointed out what these differences are when it comes to protecting consumers in Croatia and in some of the more developed EU members. In this new strategy, the European Commission has identified as key areas of green transition, digital transformation, effective consumer rights implementation, specific needs of certain consumer groups and international co-operation. The national consumer protection programme for the period from 2021 to 2024 sets out again the priority areas which are important for us to strengthen the position of consumers in the Republic of Croatia. So they are then identified as the most significant, some of the most significant priorities identified by this proposal for this period, further development of legislation at national level, which has already been answered by the respected State Secretary, then further strengthening market surveillance in the field of consumer rights, improving consumer protection in the digital environment, promoting sustainable consumption and energy efficiency policy and consumer protection in the exchange of Croatian kuna, which I can see that there are certain differences if we compare this with these objectives set up by the European Commission. The main objective for that period is to strengthen the rights of Croatian consumers and promote fair competition for consumer well-being. And then what does that ultimately mean? A lot more or less in the national programme is said about information, empowerment, promotion, awareness improvement, protection, etc. And there may be a little too many of those general phrases, but we're just getting used to it because we've seen it in the national development strategy, so let's get on with it. So the development of legislation is a lot of us aligning it with the directives that come from the EU, sometimes it's not bad, and sometimes when we see these key areas in the new European Commission strategy and we see that there are still certain differences that we need then and when we implement the directives that still define only the objective, and we can adapt that to our conditions we need to respect. It then states what I said in the replica, which refers to products that do not have the same characteristics in all EU member states, and it has done a lot of work for the SDP representative Mrs Borzan, and it has been a lot of praise for some of the winnings on this plan, but here I am glad that what we heard from the respected secretary of state that the new legislative proposals and the State Inspectorate will get involved in this, and I think that it might ultimately obtain some results that our consumers expect. The next part is about price control measures, and there's a lot of that about this pandemic that's been with us for a year now, and we've all witnessed that price rampage at the very beginning of protective masks, but also foods like yeast that suddenly became a strategic product because we had two factories that the foreigners bought and shut down, so we've been condemned to import here so one of the otherwise not-so-important foods, but at that point it became extremely important. When asked why it was so, the only answer was so that it was a market economy, the law of supply and demand, the state could not intervene there, but they could forbid movement, they could ban us from much, but the price of yeast and protective masks is determined on the market as well as in normal circumstances so that man would think that living in a state where state interventionism is something completely unknown and that all economic liberals are. What got my attention, probably because I came from Slavonia is part of the supply of water services. The document states that the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development will carry out administrative oversight of public water service providers with regard to the legality and general conditions of water supply. I must point out that the citizens of Osijek have only recently received arsenic water according to the one prescribed in the EU, and here all the time they have assured us, despite the fact that the number of arsenics has been increased that this water is correct and that there are no devastating, any adverse consequences for the health of the people of the City of Osijek, so I don't know why the EU has significantly less permitted than it was. And unfortunately, the question remains what is with other places in Slavonia because this problem is not only present in Osijek but also elsewhere. I know it's a lot of investment, but when it comes to the health of our residents and citizens, then I don't think we should be saving on it. The part about protecting consumers in the digital environment is something that needs to be supported in any case, it starts with a problem of speed access to the Internet, and here at this location where we are currently in HS we see that the Internet is in the category now you see it, now you don't see it. The part relating to encouraging sustainable consumption of the circular economy states that our citizens, according to research, believe that all of this is only about the classification of waste. This is where it all begins and ends and we can conclude that our fellow citizens actually know very little about the circular economy, and there we should certainly intensify this area and educate information. I have looked back a little bit in the replica of these numerous eco-acceptable products, which are mainly used to achieve higher prices, and in principle only these two markings, one of which is the EU EcoLabel, which has pointed out the respected state secretary guaranteeing our consumers that they will actually buy a product or consume a service that has met these high criteria that are prescribed. Unfortunately, there are very few products and services in Croatia, I think there are 19 products and some 6 services camps, but the VAlamara are the ones wearing the label. Apparently, the owners themselves did not recognize one of the tools, and perhaps according to them, the HGK and the HOK should intensify these programmes and educations. I am also pleased to see that we are going to implement a new directive soon that will make order in this area because right now on the market we have a really real forest of these markings which, in fact, producers themselves are putting in place, and not guaranteeing consumers what they should guarantee. It would not be bad if civil society associations were involved a little more, and there is still a responsibility in that segment, NGOs because they can do very much there. The information of food consumers always kind of goes hand in hand with this strategy from field to table and our farmers have heard a lot about this strategy that cannot be revived, regardless of the numerous efforts, numerous institutions, at different levels this idea and this strategy cannot go from paper to real world. And we often meet on products of some kind that says that the country has origin for Croatia that it is all domestic, but let's not forget that it is enough in principle to repack a product in Croatia to get the label that it is from Croatia, and in principle it may be apples from Poland or meat from another country. So we have on the shelves something that in Slavonia would say to me, one of those senses where consumers with all kinds of education and information can hardly be protected in the right way, but here's the document is basically one step forward, so I think we should actually support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38719	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of HDZ, and will be spoken by respected representative Josip Begonja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38720	The Honorable Vice-President of HS, State Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before us is the Government's Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for the next four-year period, so until 2024, which is to be submitted and submitted by the Government every 4 years to the HS in accordance with the provisions of Article. 130 Consumer Protection Act. This legal norm is regulated by the National Consumer Protection Programme as a strategic document to define objectives, measures, priority areas and activities in the implementation of consumer protection policy for a four-year period and to say immediately that the HDZ Club will support this Government's Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme. It is undoubtedly necessary for consumers to have synergies between cross-sectoral action and multi-disciplinary action with a number of stakeholders involved from state bodies through regional and local self-government to civil society associations, as well as the professional public. It is certainly one of the objectives of consumer protection policy, above all, of improving the quality of life of consumers who need to rely on high standards of protection of their rights, which should provide them with a legislative framework that regulates their economic protection, when buying goods or services. However, this protection needs to be time-changed and complemented by rapid changes in the market resulting from the modernisation of the way consumers are doing, which often causes consumers to lack knowledge of their consumer rights, which is why consumers are not always able to consume them. The level of information of our consumers on their rights is still significantly lower than the level of information of consumers of EU member states, so than the EU average. One of the objectives of the proposed national consumer protection policy is also aimed at strengthening consumer information and further education on their rights and ways of achieving these rights, especially in the digital environment, as this crisis has also been shown by the Covid-19 virus pandemic, whose consequences point to the importance of digitising and raising consumer information literacy. Protection in the light of the crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronaryvirus has also pointed to all the benefits of consumer protection policy, its efficiency, as well as the necessary changes in protection because there has been a change, both in behaviour patterns and in consumer mobility. In order to strengthen and increase the position of consumers and their trust, this proposal defines priority areas that will focus on action in the upcoming four-year period. They were already mentioned here, but once again, this is certainly a further development of the legislative framework at national level, strengthening market surveillance in the area of consumer protection and strengthening consumer financial literacy, promoting sustainable consumption and energy efficiency policy, improving food security and informing consumers about food, especially consumer protection when replacing the Croatian kuna with the euro, and informing and raising awareness of consumer protection through available tools for resolving consumer disputes, then cooperating with consumer protection associations, as well as consumer information tools. Since the Republic of Croatia and all of us together as consumers are part of the single European market, as well as our citizens, consumers, have faced a number of challenges that such a market provides. This requires greater knowledge and skills in order to prevent consumers from developing unfair business practices. It is important to say that at EU level and implementing a consumer protection policy based on a new Consumer Strategy adopted by the EU Commission in November last year, which is an updated vision for EU consumer protection policy since 2020-2020, called Strengthening consumer resilience for sustainable recovery. The aim of this Strategy is also to address consumer direct problems related to the pandemic of Covid-19, which includes 5 key priority areas. These are green transitions, digital transformation, effective implementation of legislation and effective legal protection, addressing the specific needs of consumers, as well as consumer protection in the global context. It should be stressed that as a full member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia has fully taken over the European acquis from the area of consumer protection policy and has transposed it into national legal regulations, thus ensuring a comprehensive legal framework for consumer protection. Also, as a country, we actively participate in the work of working groups, we continue to bring national legislation in line with the current changes to European legislation in the field of consumer protection. In the coming period, therefore, the period of implementation of this National Consumer Protection Programme proposal is expected to also transpose the provisions of the Directive on the modernisation of EU consumer rules into our national legislation, but it is also expected to be implemented and amended in the Consumer Protection Act as regards unfair business practices and infringements. Certain surveys have shown that some products sold in the Republic of Croatia differ by either composition or any other features of products sold in other EU Member States while advertising as well as sales indicates that they are actually identical products. Therefore, the amendments to the provisions of national legislation on unfair business practices are intended to make a greater step in protecting, protecting consumers. With regard to cross-resorship cooperation, this proposal for a national programme provides for greater activities in the further multiplication of a number of stakeholders in order to better protect consumers in all sectors. In all this, the National Consumer Protection Council will also play a special role as one of the most important consumers' policyholders made up of representatives with state authorities, HGK, HOK, Croatian Employers' Associations, Consumer Protection Associations, representatives of local and regional self-government units, as well as independent experts in the area of consumer protection. During the next 4 years through discussions with representatives of bodies that regulate individual areas of consumer protection in their part, then with independent experts from individual areas of protection, I am convinced that they will influence the insurance of higher standards of consumer rights through all sectoral policies. I am also convinced that this national programme will not remain a dead letter on paper but a single ornament, a strategic document behind which operational plans should follow, as well as operational action. Finally, I repeat, the HDZ Club will support this government's proposal to the National Consumer Protection Programme for the next 4 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38721	Thank you very much. Now we will return to our wheel and individual debates and the first to come forward is MP Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38722	Thank you very much. Here is when we talk about consumer protection on the single European market Croatia is at the beginning, the Croatian people and the Croatian consumers, and we are all consumers, being terrorized in an unfair match. I mentioned through a replica of teleoperators the state secretaries who have the biggest profits in the Republic of Croatia, and at least invest, we have the weakest Internet, the weakest service, and the most expensive one we pay, and the biggest one is for them. What are the reasons for that? Is that a single market? Did the Croatian people deserve to be inside the EU where you said all the problems would be solved, that stars would fly on the floors, that there would be diamond sidewalks all over our streets, cities? But unfortunately, the Croatian people, you still humiliate him, say they will teach him about literacy to the HGK. So they are concerned with the hunting rifles of Nadan Vidosevic and what they spent money on that they have tampered with from our masters, paintings, art, that's what matters to them, that's what matters to them. The Croatian people, when they buy chocolate, chocolate, are packed in the same cellophane as the one in Germany, we pay it more expensive, and this is worse quality. Our eco-products are being pushed, marked by GMO products treated with glyphosate, cidophoric. And here we speak under these lights that you will protect our, our consumers... the European Directive. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] About the EUR, so what do you not say to the Croatian people openly, do not make them crazy, that it will be harder, worse standard for Croatian citizens if we introduce the EUR. What are you doing about it? Did you call a referendum? Have we discussed this openly? Did the profession fail or is the governor of the CNB Pharaoh on all these processes? How are some countries not and are the reasons that are stronger than us have not introduced the EURo, for what? When we talk about consumers within the EU where is this Croatian consumer? Where is a parent from someone who has online teaching, and there is no signal, and pays that service much more expensive than in other countries? But that's why the consumer is here, but this government in the 5th month frequency fee has forgiven a billion kuna, without a problem she forgives this Telekom. It did not reduce the price of our customers' accounts, it did not decrease the price. That's why we Croats, we've got the worst, I'm talking about teleopers now, so in other cases, we've got the worst service, we're the first to corruption, and the biggest profits are teleopers in the Republic of Croatia. It's a definition, first by corruption, if it's easy to solve. Dinastija Misetic solves it in 5 minutes, those there in T-com, one part of the family is with the government, the prime minister, draws the strings and solves all the problems. What a fee, a triba being open, speaking in a folk language. It is also the management of Croatian states and Croatian resources. And if we were to talk about other consumer protection, other things about food, food quality, that would be to talk about for days. So we import harmful products, harmful food products, 3 billion EUR products, so we don't take high quality products. So all the money to the Croatian people is out of socks, out of cobwebs, out of pillows, out of, out of everything. What banks, what import lobbies, what teleoperators, so when it is thrown on paper, what protection of Croatian consumers and Croatian citizens on the single market is said by the EU Prime Minister, his and Tajani, fascists there and Vukic, who is in Pučka's party, and now just now weeps over the fate of Croats in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38723	Thank you very much, we have more replicas, the first respected representative of Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38724	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Bulj, therefore, quotes, “With the aim of retaining high standards of food safety, it is necessary to coordinate action against false procedures in the food supply chain.” What is the impact of the trade lobby in the context of these false procedures and the kind of prevention of domestic products as such choices on the market, both in Croatian and European? On the other hand, do you think Croatia needs the food parameters and the ones we import and, among other things, the ones we produce, if we look at the number of cancer patients and the number of naturally infertile couples as such? Is this all one domino effect in your opinion, or is it something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38725	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38726	This is a planned harmful policy of Croatian governments. Plank. It's unthinkable for me to buy in our trade chains, a few years ago at the beginning of those chains, a lamb from New Zealand that's frozen, for 10 kn kilos. 10 kn frozen lambs, and until the transport to Croatia, how much does it cost. And, of course, our manufacturer, our domestic producer, has been destroyed on purpose and is guilty of Croatian governments, pests within the ministries. We never had a colleague, Kujundzic, but we never imported again. 3 billion food products we import. And we've got the plains unsupervised. What does that tell you? To be manipulated with import lobbys that are suitable and at the same time, incentives are shared only to similar parties who have party cards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38727	The next replica is the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38728	Dear counterpart Bulj, it was in September 2017 when Croatian Europarliamentary Biljana Borzana and Croatian Food Agency Director Andrea Gross-Boskovic presented quality analyses in parallel to Croatia and Germany that were devastating. So, summed up, products under the same name that were placed on the Croatian market were worse quality than those sold under the same name on the German market. What affected me especially was the fact that, let's just say, there were many savings in foods that were children's food. Therefore, children's food was also of lower quality in Croatia. That was four years ago, we're still talking about the future how we're going to change the law so that something like that doesn't happen, so how long until fellow Bull?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38729	Representative Bull, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38730	Well, of course it's a shame that the same product in the same cellophane is more unquality in the Republic of Croatia, much more expensive than the product that came from other EU countries. What are we to them? Then what are we to them? What are we to them? What are Croatian citizens for our government and European officials? Much weaker quality and children's food. What caused the increase in patients with severe illnesses? So for this purpose, don't plow your fields, import our harmful products that our citizens don't want, that's a message from these great European factors. Is this a common state, where Croats are equal, A. Plenkovic, a great European, a friend of all within the EU, of all factors? Did the Croatian people deserve to be humiliated?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38731	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38732	Mr. Bull, I'm going to ask you one important thing right now. So we have the fact that even before this epidemic of the coronary crisis, the Croatian economy was falling. Now there's a speed of freefall... record duty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And okay, Bulgaria, Romania, we can only look at them with admiration. In addition, we have problems on other issues in our country, and now we can also see that some of the fundamental rights in our country are simply not protected, that we are also the worst in the EU. What I'm interested in, how do you today evaluate the state of our country and what do you estimate even though it may be a short period of time, what will happen if it continues this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38733	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38734	Croatia is at the bottom of the EU's economic and market policy. The Croatian government, which called for the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb, has not changed one brick. The problem with the Baranja disaster, she didn't do anything at all. In this COVID crisis, Croatia is calling for vaccination, lost order, and we are at the bottom and by the cleavage. What did this Croatian government deserve to be called Croatian at this time besides calling for the legitimacy it had? As far as figures and facts are concerned, Croatia is currently at the bottom of all issues, and of that Croatian citizens, consumers have absolutely nothing but become the market for the trade of bad EU member products. We, Croatia became a store, made of it a trade chain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38735	The Republic also has a respected representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38736	Thank you, Dear colleague Bulj, I am an advocate of the free market but a free market where everyone has equal rights and opportunities. The fact is that the Croatian government has favored large corporations at the expense of our craftsmen, our farmers, it is visible, you have often talked about it in telecommunications. The concessions, Deutsche Telekom or HT, are now being forgiven and certain processes are being conducted, there are doubts about illegality, we know well that some key people in the company in Croatia have a direct connection in the Banski dvori. These are problems and also, about food, harmful food, meaning that we have on the market, we only still rely on Mr Filipovic and the cancer vaccine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38737	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38738	Well, yeah, direct connection is the Misetic Dynasty. Dynasty Misetic, let's be an open colleague of Grmoi, that within the government and this HT, Deutsche Telekom i.e. at least Croatian, it... Croatia is a link I repeat, the Misetic dynasty and they are forgiven by concessions and Croatian consumers are forgiven by billions, have a higher profit, Croatian citizens pay the most expensive internet that is the worst service in the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he's got the biggest winning telegrapher in the world. What does that mean? That's why Croatia is a port after corruption. The freedom of the market, the freedom of the market to have 700 000 ha of unprocessed agricultural land, and they import food, food products, meat, pork, a soybean shotgun that is treated with glyphosate, poisons that all reject but send it to our people in 10 kn trade chains, and eventually we have the number of cancers and other diseases that we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38739	The next debate will be the respected representative of Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38740	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm gonna go back to that monkey face that caused so many storms in my speech on behalf of the club. What it's about, to be scientifically absolutely accurate, to make you think that this metaphoricality is the pure result of my inspiration and some of my arbitrary interpretations. The level of information of Croatian consumers on their rights is lower than the European average, the proposal we are discussing today said. However, in footnote No. 7 calling for something called consumer conditions scoreboard 2019, a European Commission survey on consumer rights at EU level, we learn a little more concrete frantic data. I cannot, since the language as such is imperfect, express the sufficient amount of disgust that these data reveal and for which in this key consumer rights document and their future at Croatia level, only one euphemism was used, around the average, there somewhere below average, not the results are scandalous. Do you know what it means to be the worst within the EU under consumer rights? Not bad, but worst. Do you know what it means and that we have the worst confidence in public institutions, that complaints are being resolved with us? And that at the level of consumer knowledge of the rights of those we are trying to complain to, where we are trying to achieve them in retail, they are again the worst in Europe, they have no idea. These are the things that Croatian citizens need to know because you were all in that situation where you're trying to achieve your consumer rights, so you feel like a monkey, so you feel like a fool, you get the impression that someone's rowing you, you get the impression that something's wrong. Well dear citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it's time to clear and unequivocally say it's not your impression, it's incontrovertible facts. The chances of being overridden and you will not exercise your rights in Croatia are the largest compared to the rest of the EU. Only when this problem is sufficiently clear and radically conscious is it possible that we will all start working together to change these unfair trading practices. But I do wonder if this will ever happen if we see it here from the ruling majority, that they do not face the fact that we are the worst in Europe, but the fact that this is underlined by a single breakthrough, although still insufficient metaphor, comparing Croatian consumer rights with those of monkeys. You would be better off ignoring the form and once you start to deal with the content, only then will we be able to talk about the rights of Croatian citizens at all. Double practice within the EU, in 2017, we discussed for the first time the research that showed from orphans in Nutella to worse Ariel, comparison of Croatia and Germany. And to me personally, the worst, the smaller share of vegetables, the larger share of rice, the smaller proportion of rape oil that carries a significant omega of 3 fatty acids in children's food. In 2019, a marked European Commission survey again on two practices that states that there is no difference in at least a significant geographical sample that can be established at EU level, one very cynical explanation that the product is not necessarily worse, be careful if it differs from quality. This was 2017, so in 2019 it was reported that Nutella is not worse, so thank God for all of us who worship sweet, and if otherwise, perhaps Croatian children do not need 3 fatty acids omega, they prefer to eat rice. Only in 2021 are we even talking about changing legislation to make such practices impossible. We're late, we're late, we're late.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38741	We have several replicas, the right of a respected representative of Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38742	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, ma'am. Selak, I believe that for the better mental state of the nation, and the understanding of everything that has been said, in part and the false interpretation of what you said today, you will greatly contribute to the vaccine that is here, I hope Filipovic will put into mass production when building the factory itself. In your presentation, you stated that the level of consumer information in the Republic of Croatia is one of the lowest in the EU. Why is that, in your opinion, in the interest of whom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38743	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38744	Well, it's one standard historical practice that best to kill a messenger in order to try and hide a message. So it doesn't matter if the message is true or not true, we go back to the messenger and kill him. So I started to get killed by talking about whether I should have used, imagine, the word "monkey". So, as far as anyone's concerned, it suits everyone. A grey market at the edge of the EU in which worse products can be traded, in which worse food can be imported, in which consumers do not know their rights, in which their complaints are not resolved, corresponds to all because they are potentially large profits. But the one to whom it should not be answered are our institutions, the one who can change it are our institutions that need to resolve citizens' complaints and prevent such practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38745	The Republic also has a representative, Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38746	Thank you very much. Standards of high, quality food standards on our consumers as a single market for colleagues are described here as if Croatia is something, as if the same processes were happening in Croatia as in other countries. How do you describe that in the Republic of Croatia. This house doesn't want to accept, in the last term it's... For example, procedures. A ban on glyphosate use in agriculture while at the same time we import pork that is treated with these toxins and sold on our drawers in trade chains, not on the side, for 10 kunas while our pig-eating and our poultry industry is failing? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how do you view harmful products, which act harmful to people's health, coming to Croatia for food while there are fewer and fewer on the EU shelves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38747	Dear representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38748	It's a complete disquieting institution for the lives of our citizens. I'm speaking very specifically here, this is about the lives of our citizens. This is not some sort of indirect right that will have some kind of influence or have no impact on our health and lives. This is about what's essential, it's about food, and it's not the only case. We also have a problem with the first-class food we export, let's say, specific apples, while importing three-class frozen products. So being on the edge of the EU means not only importing worse but often making it paradoxically the best, but not being able to use it by our citizens. What is sad is that research shows that 54% of Croatian citizens determine the price as the basis for which they decide what to buy. We don't have any money. That's why we can be used like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38749	The next replica is the representative of Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38750	Thank you. Dear colleagues Selak Rasdic, we have seen one attack on you from the HDZ because you have claimed that the Croats are actually, in fact, experiencing us by those who want to milk us and trick us with bad goods, and in this they are affected by Croatian authorities, in fact, by losers and monkeys. This is where your colleague from HDZ attacked you. And the fact is that it suits them, they want such a Croatian people, they want a Croatian people to sell the story of a cancer vaccine factory, America invests $150 billion in researching cancer medicine, and they promise the people the factory of this cancer vaccine. They want to do it from the Croatian people and then they want to give it to us who want to protect the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38751	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Agent Ivanovic, what was injured in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38752	Thank you very much, Vice President. A fellow Grmo was injured by a natural art. In 238, insulting a colleague who is not here, who has done nothing to offend Mrs. Poirot. Selak but merely opposed the finding which was very ugly and inappropriate in HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38753	I estimate that no injured Rules of Procedure, and what you said is that the finding was an ugly, inappropriate assembly, that's what I said. This, respected representative, Selak Rasdic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38754	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38755	And the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of the bush, I didn't see it. [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure of Grumo]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38756	So, dear Vice President, you and your colleague Ivanovic are in violation of the Rules of Procedure. You are not here to interpret the statements, and if anyone insults the Croats, they are offended by your candidate with the crazy ideas he proposes in his election campaign. You insult the minds of Croatian citizens, you insult intelligence if you think you can sell it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38757	My colleague Grumo, this way you will not achieve anything, nor will anyone appreciate you if you violate a conscious Rules of Procedure, so I am your foundation. I give a warning in 239. Here's the esteemed representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38758	Your Honor, I don't want to interfere with...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38759	Wait, you, you looking for a break or what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38760	No, here's if you need a breach of the Rules of Procedure, obviously you've hurt the Rules of Procedure for the reason you have double standards. Mr. Ivanovic, as you said, did not happen to hurt the Rules of Procedure, you did not give any warning, you also found that for Mr. Grmoy and you gave him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38761	That's because he insulted her.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38762	So you have no right to double standards. If there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it is equally true for all MPs. I can't enjoy my HDZ colleagues because you're the chairman, and everyone else is suffering in this Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38763	Now, first of all, sit down because you've used your time. Secondly, you need to listen here, not just this one to attack constantly and insult. So you didn't call on any of the Rules of Procedure. He didn't call his colleague Grumo any part of the Rules of Procedure. And a colleague called on the Rules of Procedure. So that's the difference, and that's why I'm telling you a warning. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38764	Dear Vice President, please do not deceive the public, I have called on Article 238, and I demand that your colleagues, since you have given me a warning, say the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38765	You may request whatever you want, I shall give you a reminder on the basis of Article 240(1) by subtracting the word. We have now, what, the violation of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38766	Dear Chairman, thank you. Article 238 has been injured as the one who runs this session should be just, equal to all of us. For months and months and days and from different sessions, you show how much we are from the opposition citizens of the second order as well as anyone who is not a member of the HDZ in this Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38767	Of course I'll give you a warning because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And what you said is completely incorrect because I am absolutely equal to everyone and whoever deserves a warning and violates the Rules of Procedure will get a warning. Therefore, we are now finally going to talk about what we should talk about, we have talked about everything and everything besides what we need to talk about, so allow the respected representative Selak Rasdic to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38768	All I said was the Emperor is naked. The Emperor is naked. Croatian citizens have the right to know that their consumer rights are the worst in the EU, and you tried to hide it from them. That's why I got a few warnings from me and my colleagues. The fact that you've focused on the word "monkey" which is not usually a curse and it's a matter of your interpretation, whether you find it offensive or not. Instead of worrying about the content of what was said, which is that we are really being made to monkeys in the Republic in terms of our consumer rights, which is not about my interpretation and impression, but about the research of the European Commission that you have failed to consciously state, you have reached a new level of cynicism towards Croatian citizens. And he did make them monkeys again. I'm sure they'll recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38769	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38770	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Selak Rasdic, you started your speech in a way that we are not among the worst but the worst. That is very often when it comes to different topics we speak from this pay phone. Not among the worse, not somewhere at the bottom, but the worst. And we've been in the assembly for three weeks and we're discussing it the following way. We have some amendments to the law, then we bring them into line with EU directives, paper endures everything, and then we come to reality. One of the reasons is that we formally satisfy everything, we've gotten along fine here, and in reality it's different. This reality is to be pointed out, this reality needs to be changed, this reality really needs to be influenced. It's the only way to get into that category among the worse, not the worst. And here's another topic of food. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38771	The answer of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38772	This hit me personally. So there are some topics that are abstract to our citizens, there are some topics that may not concern everything directly, but there is one topic that cares about all of our citizens. We're all human, human, and we all eat. And on the subject of the exercise of our rights, we are the worst in Europe in the matter of not eating garbage. So who will not be affected by the fact that most Croatian consumers are the most important price in choosing what they will eat. And the second most important thing that is very unusual at EU level is security. So we're in fear for naked skin. We know for ourselves at least we haven't heard this unequivocally and specifically that what we eat is probably wrong and that we can't afford better. Who won't hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38773	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38774	counterpart Selak Rapudic, the double rules obviously have them on more sides than we have today in the assembly double rules where the HDZ chairman does not give warnings about the same thing, for which he punishes parliamentary MPs from the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38775	My colleague Petrov, if you continue to discuss with me, you will earn a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38776	Also please allow me, also I beg you, I beg you to complete the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38777	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38778	You don't give me the right to finish the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38779	You won't discuss it with me because you have no right to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38780	What I'm trying to say is, I'm not discussing with you, I want to direct the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38781	Then give me a line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38782	We also have double rules on EU food markets where we are the second-class market, second-class citizens. We have a situation where we least report problems, and most of all we are exposed to unfair commercial practices. We have a situation where the slowest thing to do is to settle disputes. That's the situation, that's double the rules. Both today in the assembly and among EU members. Now I ask you this little time, no matter how little time you have, give a concrete solution that can be simply done, which these rulings avoid doing, and can be made to make everyone in Croatia better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38783	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38784	So the simple solution is to change the governing structure, the simple solution is to even start talking about problems. How are we going to talk about solutions when the ruling structure pretends there is no problem. What solutions? What's the problem? So no problem, colleagues, let's talk about digital transition, green economy, circular economy, let's deal with nice, attractive European topics. That's what we're doing here today. And what's under the carpet is what I feel duty to speak out loud, which is that we are far from what is discussed in this strategy because our basic consumer rights are collapsing, and this problem is not recognized at all. Comrade Petrov, I would give solutions, but we are currently in a situation that we are not at all, that we cannot recognize the problem at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38785	The next replica is the respected representative of Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38786	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, this monkey business has been supported by research from the EU that has shown that we actually use the products we use in Croatia, but these are research from 2019. Our representatives in the EU have taken a whole series of activities and steps, have done a lot to change the situation. I of 2018. There have been some bans, one part of the regulation that has actually helped us in Croatia to have a different relationship or that we have a different relationship and that we can buy differently and that we can trade differently. The fact is that in fact, a much larger state than Croatia's large corporations influence and impact it negatively and that they actually dictate the pace and that they dictate what they will and will be. I hope that our representatives who are in the EU will succeed in further improving these activities the situation which is currently in Croatia and that we will have much more quality products, especially in the food section. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38787	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38788	It is often said and I think that many Croats have already realized that we are the worst in corruption within the EU. However, this fact that they do not have any consumer rights or that they can be sold whatever it is that no one will be retired for it, I do not think that Croatians or Croatian citizens have yet to regain consciousness and that this is not clearly communicated enough. You're right about what you're saying, we were one of the first to run out to sign overseas agreements with Canada, we were talking about a similar American, who gave even more power to corporations than countries where it was made possible for corporations to also sue countries if it comes to the collapse of their production. These are the problems of the future and these are the problems that have not yet come to the agenda at all at the level of this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38789	The Republic has a respected representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38790	Dear MPs. Selak Rasdic, I have two questions for you. By listening to your presentations, I'd like to know how you're commenting that during the crown, looking at double standards, so that our posters were closed, that our maids couldn't sell their products on the sheets, and on the other hand we had a chance, and we're also consumers, we're the only ones who buy in big chains like, not to pick them up, where is the quality of food that we buy so much lower than what our people in the O.P.G. produce? And secondly, how do you comment on the fact that even here in HS, these stories about the digital economy, the green economies, the circular economies, and they don't solve the problems of what you stated yourself in your own exposure, and these are the problems of the communal nature? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38791	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38792	Yes, do you know what consumer rights mean for Croatia? It does not mean consumer rights but means how the consumer and only consumer survive, or how to make consumption even more consumable, to spend even more and even less rights. And that's why the malls stayed open, that's why our markets were closed, and that's why these strategies are in general the goal, and this particular emphasis on digitals, regardless of the social conditions for this consumerism to continue to live and preferably flourish, and that's our basic problem. And as for all our citizens, how they serve the bill, how it doesn't say where the debt comes from, how it can come and carry out. Now, these are issues for some other countries that are not the worst in Europe regarding consumer rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38793	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Vucilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38794	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. This debate before me gave me an idea of how to solve this problem of unhealthy food. So here's to all who want to eat healthy I can tell you that in Slavonia and Baranja and Western Sreme there are 100,000 empty houses along with economic facilities, move in, we are Slavons of a broad soul, we will receive you, plant a garden, grow something, get your hands dirty, and you will eat healthy. You don't have to go to any shopping malls. He's from around Valpova, he knows what I'm talking about. But I didn't mean to talk about it in an individual debate but about replacing the kuna with the EUR, I didn't get to talk about it when I spoke for the club, so I'm going to look back at those few elements. We all know that Croatia has entered ERM-2 means the introduction of the EUR is no longer a political issue, but it is meeting the prescribed criteria that have been significantly violated in this economic crisis. I will remind you that the debt has increased in absolute amount by 35 billion kuna, the deficit has increased to 8% so we do not meet those 5 criteria that we must and will probably be on hold until further notice unless some accounting acrobatics make it a little more beautiful, but I don't think it will help either. The conversion of kuna into EUR-o without certain reforms that have long been waiting will not do much. So no judicial reform, no public administration reform, no education, no health care system, this conversion will be a de facto pure technique. So if you had 150 kuna in your wallet today tomorrow you'll have a little less than 20 EUR and more or less that's it. So all that talk about high wages and all that is still in some category of illusions that have been trying to place us for years. It was similar with EU accession. Far be it from the EU to its good side, but it appeared to us as if it were going to flow through our streets of honey and milk when we enter the EU, and we all know it isn't. Here we are now in the EU some things are better, some are worse and as usual everything has its own good and bad sides. It would be better if we were a little higher, according to the indicators especially of this economic one, but unfortunately we are where we are at the beginning of the EU. We often hear that there will be an increase in prices and that is what the esteemed secretary of state referred to in its statement and that is the fact. It is said that this increase will be relatively small, but if you take the structure of the product means the average and statistics is one thing, but when you look at the structure of the product a little more, then individual purchases look significantly different and the whole picture looks different. So we can say that the most actually prices of bakery products go up, therefore dear fellow citizens and residents of our beautiful ours enjoy coffee and hairstyle for some time at far more favourable prices because there will be significant purchases. So this document states that the public should be informed of the advantages of the introduction of the EUR, yet it should inform the objective public and point to the whole package. So not only on the advantages but also on the negative because the EU has shown itself in some things good, but also in some things it has proved quite bad. Here is the final example of this vaccine where the EU has proven itself incompetent and ineffective. That's a fact. So let's not show the introduction of the EUR as something that only has the good side because we need to tell our citizens openly this double-price statement, these are all some kind of technical measures. What we would still need is that our, our living standards and all this is not at that level as it is in the developed members. There are some other dangers, but here I didn't get to look back at them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38795	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38796	Thank you. Dear colleagues Vucilović, so far, this debate has focused most on the quality of food, what is being imported into Croatia and the like. However, at the end of the day, our consumers have a free choice, no one forces them to buy something on the shelves of the store. However, you mentioned in the presentation of the health system. There we have the same kind of service use, we are forced to separate in advance due to the law to contribute mandatory insurance, but often our people cannot consume those services. It is no coincidence that in Croatian cities there is nothing private polyclinic because the health system is not able to deliver the rights that exist in theory. So how do you view this question, how do you change the fact that users can actually achieve these rights, and we have seen a lack of reforms for years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38797	Dear representative Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38798	Thank you very much. So we often have this illusion that health care is free of charge. It's not free, if you look at a little salary calculation then you see that it's an extremely high, high percentage that is through contributions to health care, and now it's trying to present itself in this crown crisis all as costs of embroidered, all those holes in the health system and all that deficit that's been piled up for years, it's trying to show as if it's conditioned by this health crisis, and that's not a fact, it's just not so. What you said is true. Many of our residents cannot consume health care services, waiting for 500 days, 300 days for certain checks, and now in this crown crisis it is further intensified and further disabled And that's what we need to talk about. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38799	The next debate will be the respected representative of Damir Habian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38800	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, here we are today discussing a national consumer protection plan, a matter that may be most of all documents, acts of whatever kind you want to bring to this high home actually refers and affects every single person in this country. It has already been said, and it is also said in the programme that consumer protection policy is one of the very dynamic, multi-sectoral and multi-disciplinary areas that requires the inclusion and coordination of a number of stakeholders in the area of consumer rights. I will, in my debate as well as my predecessor, Mrs Vucilović, look back on this issue of introducing the EUR, i.e. replacing the kuna with the EUR, and I would say that this is actually a very current and important topic that will require a transparent, efficient and careful application. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted another 10 May 2018. the decision to set up the National Council for the Introduction of EUR as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, and the entry into the European Course Mechanism in July last year was a key step in the process of introducing the EUR, followed by the implementation of that action plan for entry into the European Course Mechanism consisting of 19 measures. On several occasions, I was talking about the advantages that Croatia will achieve by entering the European, in the Eurozone, and I didn't think much about it, but my colleague Vucilović mentioned here or the negative side of it, so I will only briefly, regardless of what is no longer here, mention what she deliberately or perhaps accidentally forgot, and above all refers to the currency risk that all of those many citizens are exposed to today, but also companies that have their own loans in the euro. We must also bear in mind that debt will also become much more favourable, and international exchange with the members of the European Union will be facilitated because there will be no need for frequent exchanges of kunas in the euro, as well as vice versa. And it should also be noted that we will avoid actually many of the shocks that we are exposed to and increase the resilience of the economy. However, when replacing the Croatian kuna with the EUR, it will be important to attach great importance to the protection of consumers, which is also the subject of this national plan. And what we can see from this national programme of the government for consumer protection that a large area is dedicated to consumer protection policy when we talk about the conversion of the kuna into the euro. The method of recalculating the price from national currency to EUR is prescribed by Council Regulation 1997, and the prices are converted into EUR by applying the fixed rate of conversion. In other words, this means that the fixed conversion rate will consist of a whole number followed by 5 decimals or a price recalculation by applying a reduced version of the fixed rate of conversion, for example the rate to be rounded to 2 decimals, will be, will not be allowed or will be prohibited. An important role will be played by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, which will, together with the associations of businessmen, invite entrepreneurs to join the campaign to promote a proper price recalculation. The national plan also provides that the ministry will organise detailed monitoring of the prices and ethics of the business of companies when it comes to recalculating prices into the new currency. One of the key measures listed in this programme itself is the dual display of prices. In fact, the introduction of a new currency could certainly make it difficult to compare prices, according to the government's national programme, and in order to prevent a breach of consumer rights, the government will introduce a dual price statement obligation by adopting the EUR law. The commitment will be introduced 30 calendar days after the EU Council decides that the Republic of Croatia fulfils the conditions for the introduction of the EUR and establishes a fixed rate of conversion, and will be in force until 12 months after the introduction of the EUR. What will dual price display mean for consumers? It will, therefore, definitely enable consumers to see more easily traders who have unfairly increased prices or who have miscalculated them when converting them into a new currency. Therefore, during this time period prices will be shown both in kunas and in EUR. The objective of the double-price obligation will apply to companies including banks or credit institutions, as well as to the authorities of the state administration. It is also important here to mention the importance of education and information of citizens or consumers, which is also listed by this national programme as one of the important elements in the conversion of kuna into EUR. Finally, in the process ahead of us, it will have exactly a consumer protection policy, with a view to curbing the negative impact of the introduction of the EUR on consumer prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38801	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38802	My colleague Habib, unfortunately I cannot agree with you, I think the introduction of EUR from the consumer perspective will end up as a disaster for his pocket. We have experience of all the countries in the neighborhood, we know how to round prices when the EUR-o comes into the market. But I will ask you something else, in my speech, I have told one truth and supported the clear facts and called for concrete research, that in terms of consumer rights, Croats are the worst in the EU. What does it mean to be the worst in the EU? This means that in Croatia, the best chance of being swept by an unskilled or incorrect product is that it does not experience any penalization. So I'm curious, do you think that Croatian citizens are more offended by the fact that no one has told them clearly or that someone is saying that it actually makes them monkeys?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38803	The answer of the esteemed lawman, Habib.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38804	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I've listened carefully to your debate on behalf of the club and the individual debate, and unfortunately I'm going to have all these epithets that you've given us, and that's why I'm really sorry. As for the research you have called for, I will also call for research and show that you are wrong when you talk about the experiences of other countries within the EU. So if you look at the government's national plan just to introduce the EUR, then you will see the research that shows when we look at the countries that have introduced the EUR before us that there is a certain difference between real and perceived price growth. So if you look deeper at that price rise that was, it was significantly smaller. But what was the problem? There was a problem in the information and education of citizens, exactly what I am, so I haven't reached my individual debate to the end to talk about it, so it's precisely about the importance of informing citizens, so this dual display of prices where this perceived rise of prices will just be prevented, which will certainly not be in this form that you are causing, but this has already become completely normal with you and your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38805	The next replicas of the respected representative, Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38806	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your debate, you mentioned therefore the need to protect consumers during the conversion of kuna into EUR. In addition, they also mentioned a mechanism, or a dual display of prices, which is otherwise a key measure in preventing an unwarranted increase and an unwarranted price recalculation, since the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in December 2020. I have adopted a Decision on the adoption of a national plan for the replacement of Croatian Kuna in EURo, and I am interested in what other additional consumer protection mechanisms do you think are in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38807	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38808	Thank you very much. Just like you said, so one of them is a dual price statement obligation. One of them is what I said to my colleague Selak Rasdic. Therefore, the information and education of consumers is precisely to pay attention and that consumers themselves will be the ones who will, in fact, make all irregularities, all those traders, companies that in an incorrect, incorrect way, actually report the conversion. I will also expand this part when I was talking about the obligation to double-price, so it will include companies, credit institutions or banks, public administration bodies, as well as state-owned enterprises. For example, the accounts you will receive in stores, utility bills, your pay lists, pension payments will also have this double showing in both euro and kuna. In some ways, it will certainly also be one of the mechanisms that will contribute to consumer protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38809	The next replica is the respected representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38810	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Habib, this National Consumer Protection Programme also provides for alternative dispute resolution in the exercise of consumer rights. Now I'm curious about these alternative solutions that are alternative solutions? What effects have such alternative solutions been so far? Is it something on the margins or is it really something really concrete and effective to say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38811	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38812	Thank you very much. I'm glad you asked that question, because I actually asked that question in my reply and the secretary of state by pointing out that solving the court's way, so all the disputes arising out of consumer contracts are therefore with regular courts... They're expensive, they're long lasting. [[You don't understand.]] So, the parties are sometimes exhausted in courts for many years, of course it costs. That is why it is necessary to educate more, to point out and inform people about these alternative ways, so dispute resolution, especially when we talk about consumer contracts. The State Secretary herself mentioned here, and I think that, in fact, in this national programme, it is very well worked out and, in some ways, taxed which are all bodies. So, from HOK, from the HGK Peace Centre, the Centre for Peace at HU, therefore, the Association of Entrepreneurs and a series of other associations that exist and which act for that purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38813	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Habian, you spoke of the advantages of introducing the euro and removed the doubt that could be heard here in the debate, which is so that consumer fraud could happen. You said it would be a double showing of prices both in euro and in kuna and that this should in fact remove all these doubts that have been raised in the debate today. What I'm interested in is if you can touch the tourism sector a little bit, which would mean the introduction of the euro for the tourism sector, since we know that 70% of the revenues actually come from tourism and 60% of the overnights come from the euro area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38815	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38816	Thank you very much. Yes, unfortunately, I have the impression that in today’s debate it is rather focused in some negative context especially when we have, for example, this issue of the introduction of the kuna into the euro. The tourism segment is certainly one of the parts of the economy that will benefit greatly from the introduction of the euro. Only if we look, in fact every year we hear is exactly how we can say the cries of tourist workers, so all those who are located and engaged in this economic activity, that the euro is actually introduced as soon as possible. And that's why I'm really sorry that there's a lot of importance in this public space for some of these negative things, even to the potential that really aren't like that and that doesn't correspond to reality. In some ways there is an impression in the public that the euro will actually bring more damage than the benefits that are definitely not true. And for this very reason I am also appealing to work again on this education of informing citizens who are the advantages of the introduction of the euro and what it will actually bring to the Croatian economy, but also to Croatian citizens, especially when I was talking about this particular exchange risk, so many citizens have loans in euro and... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38817	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38818	My colleagues and colleagues, the National Consumer Protection Programme, from 21st to 24th, noted that the level of information of Croatian consumers on their rights is still lower than the European average. Here we have heard and we are witnessing that it is not that it is lower than the European average, but in everything else we are literally at the beginning of the European Union. Following this, if there should have been greater information from Croatian consumers, we are interested in why this national programme was only 15 days in public consultation. From December 7 to December 22, the biggest domestic consumption in the month when there may be at least time for participation in consultations, even those on consumer protection. It is a pity that the applicant did not decide on a 30-day deadline for public consultation, which would last until 7 January 21. Only if he was not afraid of this free post-Blessed time or established or unfounded anger of consumers on New Year's presents whose quality they were not satisfied with? However, during the public consultation and this is worryingly received only one remark. Although there are more consumers in Croatia than residents, we must count that both consumers and all of them are our guests and visitors who come and who, as well as our consumers, notice the differences here, and this is what we are most often talking about in recent years about the difference in food quality and even those brands that exist in Europe. So what really concerns is poor information, I would say the level of information, and at least certainly the information literacy of consumers. What we advocate is that the preventive educational work of the association that we are dealing with must remain and otherwise supported and it is certainly irreplaceable but the additional work of these associations will be increasingly important at the level of units of local and regional i.e. regional self-government. The plan also states that it is very important at local level and that there are associations involved, but these small associations must also be supported. We saw what an association might do if I didn't say the Franak movement could do. What concerns us, which is that indeed the citizens here we have talked more or less about protecting, about protecting quality and prices I would say food and suppressing at the end of the line and throwing food, but it is of paramount importance why including units of local self-government is about raising the awareness of consumers. Since a significant number of consumer questions relate precisely to issues for the use of public and municipal services, the supply of water, waste management, energy efficiency in the apartment, which is equally true for the capital of Zagreb, but this is equally true for all 575 I hope not long more local and regional, regional self-governments. We've seen it from research, and it's from three studies, too, which would be important to improve. Here when, when we speak, it is very important to improve what happens to us if we intend to enter a digital world where it was traded not only in connection with a pandemic which, of course, was more pronounced in this wave. Here we have heard, there is no Mrs. Dark Tarritash as much as ours, our fellow citizens and how educated they are, and that way they know, they know how to protect their rights. There are also many shortcomings here in these proposals. I hope that it will also improve how we will work with these three online platforms of the central consumer portal, and then stop counterfeiting and piracy or network portal money for tomorrow. So there's room for promotion, but we can't just get our fellow citizens, so our level is low. What are we going to do to make this level and not remain the lowest in the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38819	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of the God of Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38820	My colleagues and colleagues, I will repeat, following the European Commission's research in 2020, Croatia has the lowest consumer protection rating across the EU. The highest has Sweden 71.4, the lowest Croatia 53.2. I would ask you to take a good look at that research, there are many interesting findings and that of the institution you love so much that is very often the only standard of truth for you. That's how you hold the European Commission. And she gave you this very opinion. There is also a finding that we are one of the countries where at least complains about any unfair commercial practice, any problems, that our disputes are being resolved the slowest. Also that there are additional problems, but I would ask you not to waste time on it right now I have a lot of other important things to say look at this research. You refer to this research, read it carefully. And if we've figured this out, and I think we are because that's your institution that you're complaining about, I hope we've accepted, we can watch how to solve it. The first option you offer is to change the law. And that would be logical if that mantra you're selling didn't always sell. Because every time we offer something here as a suggestion, you say no, we won't accept it now because we are now moving towards a comprehensive change. And waiting for that change like you're waiting for Godot, it just doesn't happen. And then, you, it only serves you to overcome this awkward moment of truth as you face what kind of unsuspecting suggestions you make when you come to the Croatian Parliament and then, by the way, you hope that the Croats will forget very easily, quickly all of your promises that you make, and then we experience those unsuspecting suggestions of yours, we will open up 170,000 jobs and we will get more than tens of billions of EU gifts for privates, the factories will open up, this is the latest for producing cancer vaccines. And in the end, those promises of yours end up like this. At least 180,000 people have moved from Croatia since Andrej Plenkovic made that promise. We are in charge of tens of billions of kuna loans from the EU, and all of this is almost all going to be given to the public sector nothing to privates. And I guess America was so scared of these Croatian gloves in the face that you gave her with this announcement of a cancer vaccine factory that I hear they're just trying to resist as many giants of the American industry as possible to address that challenge of yours. Now, the second option may be more realistic, which is to respect the current laws, to work on them, that those who work to harm consumers to stick to and punish themselves if they get caught in it. Also, to strengthen the literacy of the nation, just don't do that, don't laugh at us when you mention the Croatian Chamber of Commerce as the standard of education and literacy of Croatia, don't let our mother conduct our nation's education for consumer protection. What I'm going to mention is a few absurd examples and just for an illustration that I think you're very well aware of. In communal services, how can you expect to have the right to punish consumers for finding something in his garbage container if he has no right and has no ability to protect that container. I think this is just a few more illustrations. How can you charge someone for municipal service if he lives in that house simply doesn't have him physically in that house, but every month he has to pay it, and besides what interests me most because you like to talk about digital economy, digital transformation, digital nomads, my people you've allowed the current law and by HACOM that people can buy a service of speed Wi-Fi internet for 150 over 50, and very often they don't deliver these same teleopers or 10% of what Croatians buy. It's like going into a store and buying a kilo of salami, but they tell you we don't have any but half a kilo, but you're gonna pay like you're paying for a kilo of salami. So would you buy it? I'm really calling you, start working, you don't have the right to transfer responsibility to someone else. You asked for people's trust, you got their votes, you got all the tools in your hands. Let's get to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38821	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38822	Dear and esteemed Mr. Petrov, I have a question about your exposure. You mentioned HGK in the context of an increase in literacy. I am interested in looking at the fact that HGK should be one of the leading institutions where it would be increased, which would increase the literacy of the Croatian people when it is connected, and it is heard, along with this real estate business where the same supplier is heard for the restoration of the facade, and on the other hand, in one town outside of the City of Zagreb, they are bought or allowed to buy real estate owned by HGK in the town outside of Zagreb at a much lower price than it really is worth. Well, here's the thing. I'm just curious about how you see that problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38823	Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38824	Well, it's called absurd, but I'll give you an example of this. It's just like when the EU says you know that a product of different quality doesn't have to mean it's a worse product, and that actually means that minority shellfishers have no reason to complain when Dobroslavic and the county suite want to reroute the sewer to the Bay of Maloston. So they'll have a little delicacy with the spice of Mediterranean sewerage. And then we'll do it all out there in Brussels, in Berlin, in Paris I hear they like it there exotically and slightly different. That's what it looks like to you only us first fools and make an absurde for absurde.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38825	The Republic also has a respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38826	Dear fellow Petrov today, we have witnessed one absurd and not only and I am afraid, unfortunately, and not the last debate in the Croatian Parliament where no one has asked the question of how we have ever come to our consumers being real monkeys, but the only question of those who have all the tools in their hands that are currently in power were that we dare to acknowledge that we are at the level of consumer rights like monkeys in the EU. What I want to ask you is really about the solution. How can we expect to serve any solutions, for example? We also talked about unfair trade practices and the need for inspections, and we did not offer a strategy for inspections in this crown where we would respect the fact that we are currently stuck with extra meat, and there is no inspection to verify what will happen to them later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38827	Agent Petrov's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38828	So here is the very specific thing I suggest to the rulings that as they write this comprehensive proposal that announces strategies, the law of whatever, because they always write comprehensively, and we never wait for that, in the meantime, to force those who work at the expense of consumers to stick to the law and to send them inspections if our citizens want to protect them. I can protect them, I also suggest that through the media very often and very clearly explain to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia absolutely every right that citizen has. And do not be afraid. Give the people their tools in your hands. If you value them, give them the tools, give them knowledge. Their tools are knowledge. Believe me, Croatian citizens will know how to use it. And you will justify their trust in these four years. I invite you to do so, be fair and just to the people of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38829	The next debate will be the respected representative of Erik Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38830	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, we are talking about a national consumer protection strategy. There are many good things in this national strategy and many good wishes, but I think there are many things that are missing in it, because the way that certain solutions are proposed is not for me to protect consumers. I mean, I've been watching that part that's about resolving, dealing with disputes, peaceful settlement or extrajudicial settlements, whatever we want to call it. In this part as well as in the part of education, we have entrusted the Croatian Association of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen or the associated Croatian association of insurance companies, which is part of the Croatian Employers' Association. It's like putting a wolf in a sheep's cake. I think the Croatian Employers' Association is an employer. So there are producers, there are no consumers. Therefore, it is by default a conflict of interest, by default. The same thing is connected to the Chamber of Commerce. I don't see that a member of the Chamber of Commerce is a consumer association. I know who sits in the bodies of the Chamber of Commerce, you don't have a single person representing consumers. I understand that the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce have these peace bodies of their own, but that is when two legal entities this over something disputed to try to do something calm, because calming is always better than ending up in court. But that they implement a strategy that is related to the strategy to be the bearers of the activities that are related to the peace that is a complete failure. But I also see an alternative way that's good. I see that there is therefore a company that deals with it. But what I went to see was that this company had been accredited by our authorities and the state, and that in the national classification of activities we do not have a calming as an activity. So there is a company that deals with this activity that has been accredited by state institutions so that it can deal with peace, and we do not have it in the national classification of activities as an activity. So we have a lot of good wishes, but in a whole series of acts, we don't get along. The left hand does not know what the right hand is doing, and that is the main objective of the strategy, so I hope that thanks to this strategy, it will then update the national classification of activities and many other things. What has not been mentioned, and this has been quite controversial for a long time when we are talking about consumers. There is one thing that has often been discussed as a measure of the standards of our citizens about the consumer basket. The consumer basket's almost gone. Some of it's small-time unions, some of it's a little bit of work by some institutions just for the sake of some of their needs. We do not know what a consumer basket is in the Republic of Croatia. We do not have its standards, and we are talking about the Consumer Protection Strategy, and we are not talking about the consumer basket. And now you have another thing. I mentioned unions. Why did I mention unions? Because unions represent workers. Are workers consumers of any kind of service from the plumbing, sewerage to through mobile purchases, so telecommunications or going to the major centres to buy something? Because by looking at the union, you have two things. You have that part of the union, therefore, in your activity which represents only workers in the field of labour, but the fact is that this worker pays both taxes and co-finances and pension funds, and health funds and also through income tax, and through a number of other fees, and also the excise duty of cigarettes supports this country. And from that point of view, the union is very relevant to get involved in this strategy. And I'll say one more thing for the end. So the laws aren't enough. They need to be known how to use them, and also citizens need to know how to fight for their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38831	Time's up. Next replica. Excuse me, first Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38832	Your Honor, you mentioned trade unions that protect workers' rights, which protect consumer rights. However, we have our representatives in the EU Parliament who protect the interests of our country and all of our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. We have witnessed various reports of the activities of our representatives in the EU Parliament, and we see that they have actually achieved great successes precisely in the part of consumer protection, in part of the interest of trade, and I believe that this is a great success for such a small country and for such a short time. In 2018, when they issued a ban on unfair practices in trade, it also affected trade in Croatia and in fact reduced these unfair practices by about 50%, which is a major improvement for us. I ask only your opinion and your position in which our representatives in the EU should work further to speed up and facilitate this practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38833	So I think that the fundamental role of all our euro-parliamentaries and not only of the Croatians, but of all of us as representatives in the European Parliament is to work towards reducing the inequality of citizens and of all those living in the European Union on any matter, and among other things, this part, which is also related to the IT sector. One of the bigger victories was to me, and that's to lift the big rummage tariffs. One part was also related to the unequal quality of products in the Member States, but there are still many challenges it is the same as the right to access, because today information is de facto going through the Internet, therefore, through an internet infrastructure that is not available to everyone in the European Union in the same way. And as we have heard in previous discussions, not everyone at the same price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38834	The next individual debate is distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38835	The Honorable Chairman, respected secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I will look only at a few things that are related to this regulation or proposal, and I think that if we go even further with the legislation that we already mentioned on the Committee on the Economy, which is actually about that part of the business, I think we will still achieve success very quickly in the Republic of Croatia and we will be much more satisfied than we are today. The work and involvement of our representatives in the EU Parliament provides us with assumptions that we can start with such programmes and that through these national programmes we can define the activities we will take. It is up to us to adopt programmes and laws that will, on the one hand, oblige producers, distributors and traders, and on the other, inform customers about how they are protected and their rights. I'd like to draw attention to one example. One of the essential data that will have to be placed on the declaration in the future is the marking of the duration of the device that would take into account the expected duration of the device, but also the availability of prices and prices of spare parts which are very important to us. Also, Billjana Borzana's proposal on the ban on embezzlement has been accepted in the EU by parliament, and this proposal will ensure the longer duration of the devices we buy, which will again affect the reduction of pollution on the one hand and ensure that consumers get the best for their money on the other. What is interesting and important to us in this debate is that during the debate on this topic in the EU Parliament, it was proposed that research data in Germany were also presented, which showed that over the past seven years, white technology failure has increased by 5%. Which is very large because it has been estimated to be a blow to a household member of around € 110 per month. I am mentioning this because it would be good for us in Croatia to record the situation in certain priority areas that are defined in the proposal for a national consumer protection programme in order to have the starting sizes and to recomparate after 4 years to see what they have done and what the effects of the implementation of this programme are. I would refer to another priority area, which is the protection of consumers in the digital environment because it is indisputable that significant purchase growth has been seen in the past few years through e-commerce through an online platform in the Republic of Croatia and we are certainly following trends in the EU. However, what is a problem that probably all of you have come across, which we who are more often on portals have to pay more attention to the fact that we have a problem buying on foreign portals because it often happens to us that once the portal detects that the customer of Croatia is actually changing your terms of purchase or selling or using services on that portal. The ban on such practice took place in December 2018 and since then discrimination has actually been halved in 18 months. For the time being, this directive does not regulate the subject matter which is subject to copyright which we also discussed on the Committee on Economic Affairs under the Copyright Act, and we will also regulate a part of it there because it was not really possible to reach an agreement on it, it is not regulated. As a result, research has shown that more than 43% of online films available in the EU are available to Germans, e.g. The Greeks only 1.3% of the same content. What is important for Croatia's analysis has shown that from 1000 e-books, Croats can only access 5 of these e-books, meaning only 5 proms are available online. In Croatia, we also have a problem with the delivery price of goods that we buy online because some traders simply do not want to deliver in Croatia, while others are very priced for the same delivery. It has already been launched in the EU by parliament, and I hope that it will be settled. In addition to this problem that is very expressed, we have a whole series of obstacles that hinder the development of cross-border online trade that are.../incomprehensible/... actually, according to the proposal of the national consumer protection programme and we must make a great effort to overcome them and enable our citizens to use e-commerce outside Croatia on an equal footing. We must make every effort to make this programme work seriously and to work alongside it on the legislation that is related to these areas and I believe that we will achieve satisfactory results on the satisfaction of all our citizens, as well as on those of us who will work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38836	We have one replica. Dear Representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke to your colleague Pavic about frauds that occur in other Member States, which touch consumer rights. The fact is that by detecting that it exists or doing some research or report doesn't mean that we've solved the problem. None of this has been translated into legislation, none of it is the content of the directive and none of it has been solved, so we have this problem further. And what I wanted to ask you when we're talking about the digital age is whether the right of consumers to access the Internet in a way that through this kind of communication, digital communication that they say today would normally in the 21st century be able to communicate with the rest of the world to carry out business activities and that would be necessary to ensure in every part of Croatia. How do you communicate with teleopers to fulfill this right to our consumers?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38838	I agree with your remark, without further ado, that it is the right of all of us, in the end, it is still 1972 if I am not mistaken, the Internet declared as a general good, means the same as water and air and everything else so that everyone would actually have the right to that Internet. Unfortunately, we do not currently have a developed internet network in Croatia. In one part, large corporations like T-com, like others that have entered Croatia, are to blame. On the other hand, we may have done the same ourselves because local self-government could have taken some action to build infrastructure. In particular, we in Krapina have created, for example, an investor who has made optical infrastructure, and in principle a part of the citizens who are closer to the team, to this.../incomprehensible/... actually were able to join it. For all of us, the goal is for all of us in Croatia to have optics on their own, on their own home for several years. And I hope that we will accomplish it together through those funds that we will receive in the EU. In fact, through those, like, six billion If I'm not mistaken, which we're supposed to get in the next six years. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38839	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38840	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. State secretaries with co-workers, MPs and MPs are certain that the National Consumer Protection Programme from 2021 to 2024 is a significant document showing our commitment to protect consumers and that we want to remove those malformations that exist in the system. Consumer rights are high on the EU priority scale, but also in Croatia. But we must admit that there is also a lot of work ahead of us when we talk about this area. The Covid crisis has shown the importance of this topic, because, in fact, because of this crisis that has hit the whole world, there has been an expression of the weakness of the consumer protection system that has been discovered in the true sense of the word. I am pleased to see that, and I am glad that these weaknesses are trying to remove in particular what comes from the top if we can say so from the European Commission which has very often responded completely passively to our warnings when it comes to consumer protection and certain phenomena that are happening on our market but also in some new Member States. I'm going to list just a few examples that are related to the subject, which can show a change in that direction that I, of course, welcome because I've stood up for that for a long time. When we warned that honey could not be marked from the EU or a mixture of honey from the EU and a third country, but that it must be written by the Member State in which the honey was produced, then we regularly received rejections from the European Commission and even, together with some colleagues, I also made reports from the European Parliament where we addressed this and a number of other issues. But we couldn't break through that wall and the barrier that appeared. Our internal research has shown that some Member States place much more honey on the market than they produce, and that is probably why this directive is reluctant to be amended. But now that local food sales have become a priority due to the covid crisis, it has become visible, and the strategy "From Field to Table" and the short food supply chains, then some things can no longer be put under the rug, so now I finally hope that the directive will change and we will know exactly which country the honey and other products are produced in. Also, when I warned about the problem of frozen meat because it had changed the regulation, then the provision that meat could not be frozen for more than a year was lifted, so our agency discovered that we had a 7-year-old meat market in the meat trade. It was also said that absolutely nothing can be done because there is no limit to how much meat can be kept frozen, even though anyone who knows what life is like in the country or who has someone in the country knows that meat has never been frozen in a refrigerator for more than a year, or kept in a box. And when we talk about the difference between old and new Member States, that they have shown a number of research that there is this difference in product quality. Our questions as to why this is happening and why the Commission does not sanction the answer was that there are different tastes in the Member States, and then manufacturers adapt it to these different tastes. But I think the problem can only be solved in a way that through legislation that regulates the issue of unfair commercial practices bans products that are placed on the East and on the Western markets to be of different quality. It is also sanctioned, for example, that something called a Croatian product, which is packaged from different parts or raw materials that have come from everywhere, is not only Croatian, that we begin to consider it an unfair commercial practice and that simply such a product cannot bear the name Croatian product. That is why we support those initiatives that go in terms of labelling, the clear labelling of agricultural products because it will also help farmers to be more competitive on the market, Croatian agricultural producers. It will also give a clear signal to our customers that they buy it so that they no longer buy a cat in a bag.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38841	Here you go. Dear Representative Željko Pavić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38842	Dear MPs, you mentioned problems with honey and bear markings. In fact, as we know right now, the rule is that if you have one percent of the honey in a mixture that comes from Europe and 99% out of Europe, you can actually put in a declaration of a mixture of EU honey and outside the EU and it's actually exactly the same as having 99% of European honey and 1% of honey on the outside. And that's a big problem. The problem is that actually the honey that comes from the outside is the most frequently forged honey, not produced in the way it should be, not produced in the conditions in which it should be. He often has antibiotics in him and if we go back to the production of honey and beekeeping we know that bees are treated with antibiotics, which is not controversial. However, we know how they can be treated and if we don't control it we actually allow not only for consumers in Croatia, but for the EU as a whole to consume what is not healthy and what is actually poison.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38843	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38844	Thank you out nicely. Thank you, fellow Pavic. Therefore, 1/3 of honey on the European Union market is falsified. The same thing is true in Croatia, it has shown exact research and therefore it is a team of greater absurdities that there is so much resistance and still an amendment to that directive that could actually do a lot of things to clean up if we can say so. Because, of course, it is important for consumers to know where the product is produced in which country and which is its traceability. And not just when we're talking about honey. The same thing is for meat both for milk and for any other agricultural and food product. They have shown research that this is important to them and that it is one of the great proportions in making their decision exactly the country of origin and the way of production. So I hope now that these new trends, which still prevail, encourage those who make decisions to meet consumers and provide them with information on the product, will then choose what they will buy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38845	Time. The next replica is the distinguished representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38846	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned in your discussion the very existing weakness caused by the pandemic in the area of consumer protection. So many of the citizens I know have remained deprived of returning their paid arrangements quite touristically in other European Union countries that have already paid, and have not received any money in return today. It is precisely in this National Programme Proposal that these priorities and priority areas are set out how to improve the upcoming period, or strengthen consumer position and restore consumer confidence in the market. How do you see this problem to be solved?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38847	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38848	Thank you very much, colleague Baricevic. Well, it wasn't just when it came to those who were paying for travel arrangements. There have been many frauds, for example, in ordering goods from other Member States, but also from third countries via the Internet and in certain products used in everyday use or in some technical aids. And this is a serious problem that needs to be sanctioned because online trade is something that is normal today, which has particularly occurred in the context of the covid crisis is something that is a tool that should enable consumers to get to those products that they need for their life, for their operation, for entertainment or anything else. So in this sense, I expect especially in situations like this that you mentioned where the tourist packages were being paid where the money was not returned to being uniform by our country, but also by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38849	Time. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38850	Dear Vice President, you were also an EU representative, so I appreciate that you certainly see the difference between consumer status and position before and now, and I think you can best and best assess it and say it the way it is. You have all extremely advocated that the quality of the product is as good as possible and that is a process that will continue to be monitored constantly and will certainly be many shades that will need to be completed. So here's why I'm interested in you, since it's also in the tax sense that VAT rates have fallen to fresh products and everything else, so here's the thing. Tell the public how it is now and how it was and what's been done positively.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38851	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38852	Thank you very much, colleague. Well, certainly, there is a serious shift on one side because consumers are getting more and more informed. That information is available to them. They know their rights and demand the achievement of their rights. On the other hand, through the mechanisms set up by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which are also on the trail of mechanisms prescribed by the European directives for consumers is indeed available and available to all that they need in order for them to be able to exercise their rights. Of course, that doesn't always go their way, and that's why they need to create mechanisms that will be a guarantee that when they schedule that system that's common to react then to the state as I said and in this case where several citizens mean 100 citizens have simply stayed in one situation where someone deliberately violates their rights. The situation is certainly better. But as I said, there is a lot of work ahead of us, and this job needs to come first of all by the European Commission. And I am glad that the European Commission has finally seen and seen what we have warned her.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38853	Time. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38854	I thank the chairman. Honored representatives and representatives of the proposer. So, I was also talking about what I think is a major failure of this programme, which is that it does not include consumer protection against the market for financial services, and in particular it does not include something that is highlighted in numerous reports as a problem for the number of one Croatian citizens who are in debt slavery, which is the agency for the collection of claims. Among other things, I would like to warn you that, on this very issue, you have an extremely large amount of information in the reports of the Attorney General back in the last few years, which has also appealed to the legislator, but also to the state bodies that bring strategies and programmes to settle these issues. I also initially said that except that it wasn't covered that I wanted to in some way object to what the situation looks like from a personal perspective. So I regularly receive citizens and citizens who are in this situation that their debts have been taken over by the claim collection agencies, and here's the other day on March 8th I spoke to a lady pensioner, so I'd like to tell you how people get into that situation. So the lady and her husband had a small loan of 29,000 kuna. During the financial crisis, she lost her job. Her husband had a stroke. He ended up a 100% disability and, of course, went into disability pension. They stayed with one single income. They used to have two incomes, two salaries, so you can service a $29,000 loan debt. So they stayed at 2,700 kuna disability pensions. Meanwhile, the lady asked the Zagreb Bank to reprogramme her debt or to reprogramme the loan so that she could repay it. They also refused to do so in the bauk as they otherwise sold non-refundable debts and sold its debt to one of the claiming agencies. In the last three years, these gentlemen and her husband have suffered daily pressures from the daily calling of ten times to the house and are threatened to make an assessment of the house to sell and to service the debt. Its debt today amounts to 93,000 kuna, 93,000 kuna. They pay off the debt because the agency for the payment of claims through the FINE has, of course, completed 1/3 of these receipts, but alas, 700 kuna they pay is not enough to keep the debt from growing further because their interest is growing faster. Because when you settle 700 kuna, and that's as much as I can then because your share is going to pay off interest, and only a very small part on the main part of your debt actually grows faster than you pay it. And the lady confused comes to me and tells me but we've already paid off 16,000 kunas so that we can still be in debt. There you go. So, that agency paid her debt by maybe 30% of what the value of the debt is, but of course she charges everything and charges both the interest and pushes them until they're forced to. And now you tell me if it's really something we shouldn't regulate? Should we not regulate, for example, that we really limit until we can raise the strained interest that when they reach a certain part of the principal or the amount of the principal that they should no longer grow? You understand that the people we put in that position will never be able to get out of it again. So, they're going to have a long, endless growth, and we've left it to the demand agencies that really have no understanding, the lady called the agency in front of me, and I personally witnessed how these people were spoken to. So it's people taking dignity, hitting what they have after years of slaved to financial institutions. The way they talk to them, you wouldn't talk to an animal. I personally listened to it. I'm sorry I didn't record it to let you do it here. I therefore appeal to you to include the minimum necessary regulation in the plan of this programme for the next 4 years because in some way citizens from these pressures and from the debt slavery they are exposed to, we must really protect them. I guess that's some basic duty we get paid for here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38855	We've finished our individual debates. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the final debate is attended by a respected representative, Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38856	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here at the very end about this item of the agenda, we heard through discussions of different opinions, the views of the assembly clubs of individual colleagues and fellow MPs, we heard suggestions that should be considered and respected as much as possible. It is more or less related to the national consumer protection programme for this next four-year period. The HDZ Club's position is that this act puts consumers' rights in focus, the safety of consumers who must undoubtedly continue to be protected, especially now during the crisis but also after a period of crisis caused by Covid due to increasing consumer uncertainty. And all numerous stakeholders of consumer protection policy, either individually or through inter-resorship cooperation, must make additional efforts to minimise consumer uncertainty and fears. It is precisely through cross-sectoral cooperation in the exercise of supervision of the application of consumer legislation in the Republic of Croatia that consumer confidence should be strengthened in the ability to exercise their rights in the purchase of products and services, but also the protection of competition by sanctioning traders who do not comply with the positive legal rules in the area of consumer protection. They should certainly make their contribution with national and local authorities and consumer protection associations and the professional public. That is why we from the HDZ Club are convinced that the priorities set out in this proposal for a national consumer protection programme will be an incentive for all stakeholders to step up cross-sectoral cooperation through the coordination of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development with other entities in order to include competent authorities at national and local level more intensively in implementing measures, all together to strengthen the rights of our citizens, consumers and promote a fair competition in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38857	The next final debate is on behalf of Green-left bloc advocate Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38858	Thank you. Here, finally, I would like to say very briefly under what conditions we would support such a program. One of the conditions would be for the programme to be entered into that in the next period it will be 2021-2024, on which the programme is to include a provision that will be regulated in more detail in the Law on Credit Institutions, the issue of selling consumer placements. In a way that, in our opinion, the best solution from the sale of plasma is to completely exclude consumer loans, and that is to say, all payments related to citizens from selling to agencies. In this way, we would not in fact prohibit the work of those agencies because you have said several times that it is legally impossible and that, and at European Union level, it would be a problem, but we would exclude them from actually dealing with citizens of consumers for which we also have a foothold on the protection of the personal data of consumers. Because as I have already pointed out, it is not the same to sell a placement of a legal person whose data are public data and paid citizens whose data are not public data means from the OIB, address, etc. So I think we have a legal foothold and that we should do it that way to solve it with the ZOKI or the Credit Institutions Act. Alternatively, alternatively, but I think a less good solution can be made mandatory to banks that first they must offer the debt to the debtors when it comes to consumer debt. Such a solution has, for example, Catalonia. However, this solution contains a certain gambling moral, which is that in some cases some might calculate that they will not pay back the debt, so that they will be offered at a lower price. We certainly want to avoid this and we think that this solution is actually that banks are carrying out the payment of claims to citizens when the citizens of the debtors are far better because the banks are still regulated by the regulations. I say agencies at all, not at all. As far as avoiding going into this cycle of poverty and debt slavery that I've told you about where it's really impossible, however you pay off to pay off your debt, because your interest is growing faster than you can pay for, we think you should regulate the issue of a tight interest rate, tighten interest, and that in a way that limits interest can grow and only run to the amount until it reaches the principal's amount. Although it would be better and less, but let's just say that it's some middle solution that after that interest can no longer grow, because then you've already crossed into a zone that you know that people won't actually be able to pay you back your debt. It neither helps the believer nor helps the debtor. No one. Or us as institutions. Furthermore, I also continue to advocate that when it comes to loans or payments to citizens to change the order of payments when it comes to costs that were not charged. So, about the debts that are non-refundable, they went to the top, to change the order of payments so that in fact most of the payments in the wars go to the main to cut it down because this is how people just pay the interest, because you know that the first expenses go, and then the interest goes, so the principal goes. That way, people can never get to the capital, and the main one is the interest, and that's your vicious circle. Is it, though, that in a larger part, we would pay off the main interest rate gradually and we might be able to get out of it? And certainly, therefore, we need to pass the Agency Act, so put the same thing in the application agency programme that will fully regulate their work and their way of working. So we don't even have a regulated question about how they, how they deal with the data they have from our citizens. Here, I'm interested in how the data they get, and they get huge amounts of data, so they de facto function as financial institutions. They have all the data for which any other institution corresponds to both the GDP and other laws, and we haven't regulated them at all. So we need to pass that regulation and regulate both their business, and the data-preservation issue, and the handling of the data, but especially their way of making those debts go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38859	The next final debate is SDP's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38860	Here, and for the end of our club, I'm not going to get into grades. I said what we resented, actually what we expected. We expected that there would be some kind of analysis, some kind of start to see where we're going, so that we could evaluate after that in four years what we did. But I'd like to look back on a few things. The first thing is the influence of large corporations on policies within individual countries and customer satisfaction. In fact, we can't imagine big corporations and big players on that market not having an impact on that, because here I'm going to tell you just one example. Let's say Alibab when he has a black Friday he has a turnover of $39 billion in one day and you can't just ban such players and you can't prevent them from having an impact on individual markets within individual countries. But unfortunately, that's the way it is. Or, for example, if we consider the Internet advertising market, which is about 65 billion euros. It's hard to control it and it's hard to bring it all together with... all states that are both in the Union and out of the Union. [[You don't understand.]] In addition to defining what we're going to do and what our initiatives are actually going to be, I think we need to define and how we're going to do it. And if we look at this programme that is ahead of us, we will see that we are involved in the implementation or work in that programme of more than 20 institutions. Now what I'm interested in, is who is coordinating those institutions? How does he coordinate them? How will the effects of these individual institutions be measured? Who's going to evaluate them? Who's going to calm them down? Where are we gonna see that? So, when we have, we have a lot of measures there are prescribed measures and are actually prescribed institutions that will work on these measures, but I think it should be some central institution, I hope it's the Ministry of Economy, I suppose, I can hope, and that there are some offices, some service, some group of people, some team, some project team that's going to follow it all together, and that's actually going to give these institutions jobs what they need to do in which period to make it all kind of synchronised and that it has its own head and tail. What is further processed here in this document, for which I think it is well and well mentioned and processed, is part of the information for consumers where information tools are actually listed, the single consumer portal is listed on the one hand, which is fine. But let's not forget that not all Internet consumers don't have the ability to connect to that Internet if they have it, since they don't have computers, we have one part of the population that is informationally illiterate and this portal is actually very little for them. I know that you've made phone calls for them that I can call, but here we heard today from a MP who tried to call that phone number that she didn't actually get the information she was supposed to get, and when we imagine what it looks like when they call it older people, then we can think, even if a man doesn't hear well, so there's a vision problem we're going to have really big problems. That is why I would suggest to you about these phones, we have many institutions in the Republic of Croatia and the Agency that are owned by the Republic of Croatia and have their call center. In this Call Centre, more than 30 people are working and more people can be placed there, given that Call Center is already in place and that you could through these people and through these agencies achieve better communication with consumers who have problems, if you are interested, we can discuss this. The second thing that you have also stated in this document, it is part of the central information system, consumer protection, I think that's the same good initiative, the question is how are we going to do it, whether we're just going to do it with these relationship bases that you've listed, that is, the data that are in the relationship bases or we're going to do it with the restructured data in a way that we're actually going to form big days and that after that we're going to do analyses that will help consumers to have better insight into what they are... Thank you. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38861	Next final debate on behalf of the Centre and Glass Representatives Club. Dear representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38862	I thank the chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here are some details for the end of this national consumer protection programme for the period 21-24. What some have pointed out before me, here it seems, is that we often bring programmes for some of the following periods, and we do not have a report on the impact of those programmes for the previous period. So we haven't evaluated the previous period and previous programme for the previous three years. So we don't know what's been done from that previous program, what's left to carry out, what lessons we've learned, so who's been in to create this program or what someone called it, we don't have an analysis of the situation. The second thing, therefore, is that consumer protection policy requires the inclusion of a number of stakeholders, including local self-government units, here is whether it states in the programme that they will support consumer protection associations, including through initiating and supporting projects that improve and promote consumer rights at local level. Further campaigns, promotional activities, information, round tables, etc. are listed. Since at local level a significant number of consumer remarks actually come to the municipal services provided by these units of local self-government it would be good to see reports of the past period and consumer satisfaction in the three previous period in these services. The second point I wanted to mention here is the final financial areas spoken of in this programme is financial literacy. The latest results of the research conducted by the OCD in late 2019 were mentioned, in which we saw a slight increase compared to 2015, when a survey was conducted and the average rating of the financial literacy of Croatian citizens was 12.3 out of 21 points, a slight increase compared to 2015. Three basic categories were measured, financial knowledge, behaviour and attitude towards money, and OCD defined financial literacy as a combination of information, knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviours needed to make the right financial decisions. In this regard, I would say that it is very important, that the activities of the Ministry of Education, Science and Education are very important, i.e. the introduction of civic education in schools within which the financial description of our young people should also be carried out. From this, the programme states that the Ministry of Science and Education will participate in co-financing projects related to education and financial literacy and protection of consumer rights in projects of the Association in the field outside institutional education, education of children and young people. So it remains beyond the institutional programme, however, should certainly work to introduce civic education with this topic as part of the mandatory curricula. Also in this, when we talk about financial literacy, therefore there is no developed evaluation process, there is no talking about evaluations, financial and education should be evaluated, this is not currently done, so this is not only a problem in Croatia but also at the level of other countries, and the OCD is starting to talk and write more and more intensively, each education is namely an investment, some kind of cost, and it should be evaluated as to how useful and efficient it was, and these evaluations must become part of the normal process. What is not in this plan as part of or part of that financial literacy is an assessment of pension literacy. So, as far as our citizens know the complexity of our pension system, which is the first and second pillar, how to save in fact for their pension, which is pension funds and what they are for. So whether the modern population is faced with the process of ageing population and the extension of life span, which increases the proportion of the old population, and they seem to be extremely poorly informed about the financial products and opportunities offered and thus better literacy in that part could affect that, at the level of their incomes at the age of three and ensure an appropriate standard of living. Here's a few details that I wanted to highlight from this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38863	Next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38864	Thank you very much. Here, at the end of the debate after a long time, it would have been good to have the current Minister Mr. Coric, Minister of Environment and Economic Extermination, because these topics are important and important for consumer protection, and that is all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I think throughout this debate it is evident that Croatia, Croatian consumers, is at the bottom of the protection, i.e. that they are left to themselves, that a trade chain of stakeholders has been made from Croatia, from all of Croatia which essentially sells its harmful products to the Republic of Croatia. Also, not only about the food production that we have brought to never lower branches, and we are boasting the great successes of this government, in particular, emphasizes that within the EU we are essentially at the beginning of consumer protection because our consumers, i.e. Our people buy much more unquality products for much more money than it is in other countries. From the food production of telecommunications services, I repeat foreign telecommunications services once again, and much more unquality products in telecommunications services. Of course, it is very important to note here that the standard of Croatian citizens will, because they will, without their will, be. without a referendum, the secretary of state tried to introduce the EUR a lot of the lower standard, so it is a matter to warn the ministry, the secretary of state, that there is nothing to do about this because simply imposing on Croatian citizens this time and introducing the EUR without any analysis without what would be necessary and some debate, and of course in the final and why not a referendum, we are a democratic society that, by introducing the EUR announced by the Croatian government, Prime Minister Plenkovic and the governor of the non-national Croatian bank, Vujčić, who is working against the interests of Croatian citizens. And as for the descriptiveness itself, here's a colleague who spoke to me in front of me by our consumers, i.e. For example, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are listed. HGK. I will say one more time, so is that mockery with the health of Croatian citizens, that the HGK which money, which weighs, makes our people struggling on the market, entrepreneurs who will give to whom. They, of course, buy hunting rifles to hunt wild animals down, kill them, and boast as they were presidents of the HGK so that they could whine their chambers with such trophies as they say or the paintings of the expensive. I don't know everything they've done, but mostly entrepreneurs haven't helped. In my view, the EU's single market is for Croatia, I think it's even well said by our people being done by Croatian citizens as if, I don't think I can understand that citizens don't even notice it, but that the impact on demographic image is in the Republic because of what we are in a subordinate position as consumers within the EU, within the so-called so-called. the single market because the domestic producer and domestic product cannot market. And much more unquality products that are imported are sold on our drawers in a way that are much cheaper. Now there's a question, and the key question is: Why is the same product that is only in the same cellophane, much more expensive with us, and it is more unquality in the same package, is essentially there in other EU countries, EU member states much cheaper. These are the key issues that citizens are interested in. But it is obvious in us that corruption, clientism, import lobbys affect our consumers that we have not fought to be equal citizens within the EU, which you have called upon all together to be and to be honey and milk. What you promised then you only gave citizens the incentive to buy barrels for honey and milk, and only the tributary of casting honey and milk was what you said when we joined the EU. Unfortunately, our consumers in the Republic of Croatia are not equal in the EU. And that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38865	With this we have exhausted the full debate, I conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met. And now we're going to take a break for the winding up to 16 hours and 5 minutes. It's 4:00 a.m. It's 4:00 a.m. We're moving on with our work. The next item is - Annual State Aid Report 2019 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 17. State aid laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union Funds. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Dear Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38868	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38869	Excuse me, Secretary of State. You'll have to wait. We have a request for a break, who asked? Here you are, dear representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38870	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are looking for a break on behalf of representatives of Croatian sovereigns, the Club of Representatives, in order to further consult on these state aids that are important, however another very important topic for Croatian society, for Croatia the state of Croatia is the state of the Croatians in Vojvodina. Namely, today they were threatened with the death of the Croatian community leaders in Vojvodina, and this has been repeated for the past few weeks, as an officially initiated procedure for the introduction of the rebel language, as official in the territory of Subotica, another fictional language in order to crush the Croatian national community in Vojvodina. I would like to express my dissatisfaction and concern with the Croatian Community in Vojvodina and I expect that the Croatian Ministry of Foreign Affairs will respond adequately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38871	Well, since this wasn't a request for a break, on a completely different subject you asked for a break, you broke the Rules of Procedure, but here, we'll give it to you because the problem is serious, but here's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38872	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of the State Aid Act, on the basis of the information provided by those support providers through the Register of State Support and Small Value Support established under this Act, the Ministry of Finance shall draw up annual reports on State aid, which the Government shall provide to the Croatian Parliament. So here today is the Annual State Support Report for 2019. The register itself, mentioned state aid and small-value support, is essentially one single electronic database, and contains data on individual state aids and state aid programmes for which there is a obligation to report to the European Commission and which are, however, excluded from that obligation. Therefore, the information on the aid granted to the State and the aid of small value and other information necessary for the implementation of the State aid system. As regards the definition or concept of State support in our legislation, it has been taken over by the European Union regulation and basic state aid constitutes a real and potential expenditure or a reduced revenue from the State granted by the State to the State in any form that distorts or threatens to distort competition, putting in a more favourable position certain entrepreneurs or the production of certain goods or services. The State aid law provides assumptions for the implementation of the EU Commission Regulation 651 of 2014 in assessing certain categories of aid compatible with the internal markets of the European Union, and the State aid policy of the Republic of Croatia follows a policy of state support for the European Union and a policy of fiscal and economic policy of the Republic of Croatia. State support providers are central authorities of state administration, units of local and regional self-government, and any legal person who grants state support and support of small value at the level of the central state in 2019 to which this report relates were 23 state support providers, of which 10 ministries, 3 agencies, 2 funds, then HBOR, Croatian Tourist Board, Croatian Audiovisual Centre, Croatian Market Energy Operator, Croatian Employment Office, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Institute for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and ultimately the Office for Associations. The annual report on State aid under the Law contains information on the state aid granted and aid of small value to agriculture and fisheries. This is important to point out because otherwise support for agriculture and fisheries is not subject to this Act, but the regulator in Article 17 of this Act has introduced a commitment to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries to provide this information in the Register of State support and support for small value, so to the Ministry of Finance. This Annual Report, otherwise 17th and 3rd, is produced exclusively on the basis of the data provided by state support providers in the Register of State aid and small value support, so its start of work was 1 January 2017. Only the Annual Report shall contain, therefore, an analytical representation of all state aid and small-value support, with revised data on the State aid granted for 2018 and 17 years. When presenting and comparing state support with basic macroeconomic indicators, the Ministry of Finance uses its own databases, as well as data from the State Statistics Institute and the Croatian National Bank. The methodology for the analysis of state aid is based on the regulations adopted under the Law, i.e. in accordance with the methodology of showing the state aid used in the European Union. If they are used by the European Commission in the production and presentation of State aid data at European Union level. In this respect, it should be recalled that in its annual support report, the European Commission itself publishes information on State aid granted to all Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Croatia. In particular, in relation to these mentioned methodologies, state support is essentially shared in two basic areas. The first is the area of industry and services and the second is support for agriculture and fisheries as a special law. But I'm saying for the sake of this joint report, that information is being submitted by law. State aid allocations shall be carried out through different forms or instruments of allocation such as subsidies, direct interest subsidies, tax exemptions in share, equity, financial transfers, issued and activated or protested guarantees and the rest thereof, and shall be shown by specific categories, i.e. objectives, thereafter by instruments, and by other data. As regards aid in the area of industry and services, given the category or objective of allocation, it is shared in four areas. These are horizontal support, sectoral support, then regional support, and support at the level of units of local and regional and regional self-government. For horizontal support I believe you have already heard the name so-called so-called. good support. They are otherwise highlighted in the policy guidelines of the state support of the Republic of Croatia, which is one of the most important objectives of economic policy, and also in the process still launched by the European Commission in 2012 called the modernisation of state aid. As regards regional support and support at the level of units of local and regional self-government, they also fall under horizontal support according to their objectives, because their objectives are the same but are separately reflected here for regional support in terms of the purpose of promoting the economy of less developed regions, so as to see that area. As regards support at the level of units of local, regional self-government to obtain insight into the use and purpose of support granted at local level. Sectoral support relates and shows through areas of land, maritime, air transport, shipbuilding, steel production, tourism, financial and postal services, rehabilitation and restructuring of entrepreneurs in difficulty, cinematography and other audio visual activities, public broadcasting services, postal services and the like. In addition to the above, there are and should be mentioned certainly small-value support, so-called. de minimis support shown separately in this Report. According to law, neither EU regulations have the character of state aid but are necessarily cited here because of their importance in terms of a large number of donors both at the central and regional level and also by granting those support in significant amounts and, in fact, at the annual level, a large share of the total appropriations. By definition, small-value support is such support that does not exceed 200 000 euros in kuna equivalent per user over three fiscal years. I would also briefly present the basic data from the annual financial report for 2019, in the context of the basic characteristics, continued the continued growth of state aid, i.e. earlier periods, and so in 2019. A total of 15 billion 201 million kuna support is allocated which is an increase of 254.7 million kuna or 1.7% compared to 2018 and is an increase of 23.1%) compared to the seventeenth year. The share of GDP support in 2018 was 3.8%. Support per employee amounted to 9775.33 kuna, per capita 3707.63 kuna, while the share in state support and expenditure was 10.87%. In the structure of State aid from the total amount of aid granted in 2019, 6 billion and 677 million kuna or 43.9% relate to the area of industry and services, 8 billion and 524 million kuna or 56.1 million kuna. State aid in the area of agriculture and fisheries therefore increases by 516.7 million kuna in 2019 or 8.4% compared to 2018, while support is granted in the area of industry and services by less than 262 million or 3%. According to the above, it can be said that the share of the state aid structure has not been significantly changed taking into account the State aid recorded in the last four years. This time-sighted share ranges from 43.3% to 43.9 in agriculture and fisheries, i.e. from 56.7 to 56.1 in the area of industry and services. In view of the state support to development instruments to be based on previous periods and thus in 2019 support granted through instruments such as subsidies and direct interest subsidies, tax exemptions, exemptions, tax exemptions and reliefs, capital investments, more favourable loans, and state guarantees. In this respect, out of these 15 billion and 201 million kuna in 2019, most of the aid was granted through subsidies and direct interest subsidies, totalling 10 billion and 67 million kuna or 66.2%. Then there are guarantees issued and taxed, i.e. 2 billion and 89 million kuna. Then capital investments amounted to a billion and 614 million kuna, tax exemptions, tax exemptions, and contributions were at the level of a billion and 305 million kuna. And through more favourable loans there are 126.3 million kunas. As regards aid in areas, in the area of agriculture and fisheries in 2019, support amounting to €6 billion and €677 million were granted, as I said more by 8.4% compared to 2018. The share of these aid in total support was 43.9% while the share in GDP was 1.67%. Of the total amount of aid in agriculture and fisheries, 293.4 million kuna was allocated to the Fisheries Sector, and to the Agriculture sector 6 billion and 384 million kuna. Within agricultural, hunting and forestry support, there are 3 billion and 808 million kuna and 2 billion kunas in rural development. Supports in industry and services were allocated in 2019 amounting to 8 billion and 524 million kuna and were less than 262 million kuna or 3% compared to the eighteenth year. In 2018, the share of these aids was 56.1%. Within the area of industry and services according to the category or objective of granting support amounting to 4 billion and 875 million kuna or 57.2 constitute sectoral support, whereas 3 billion 649 million kuna or 42.8 percent refers to horizontal support, etc. good support involving regional support and support at local level. Sectoral support for industry and services was granted less for 442 million kuna or 8.3% compared to 2018 and the share of the aid totaled 32.1% in GDP was 21.22. These aids have been granted through subsidies. The subsidies were therefore 58.9% through the guarantees issued and the guarantees were activated 41.1%. Most of the support relates to the shipbuilding sector, you know that in recent years, and it was less than two billion kunas or 41% share. Then there is support for the Transport Sector for a billion and 463 million kuna or 30%, then for public radio broadcasting services for a billion and 301 million kuna, then postal services, recovery and restructuring of firms in difficulty, and the Tourism sector only 8.9 million kuna or %. As regards trends in 2019 within the Support Sector, support for the provision of services of general economic interest continues to prevail as a public service compensation, and are allocated in total to 3 billion and 418 million kuna, representing a share of 22 and a half percent of total support granted to the Republic of Croatia and 0.85% in GDP. These aids were granted exclusively through subsidies and land-to-road transport by a billion and 260, then public broadcasting services by a billion 196, and towards a lower end the minimum amount of postal services, 94.1 million kuna. These more detailed data are given in the report itself. If, for industry and services, we are looking at horizontal support in a narrow sense, together with regional support and local support, since as I said, they have horizontal objectives resulting in an amount of 3 billion and 649 million kuna of horizontal support being allocated in 2019, which is more than 180 million kuna or 5.2% compared to 2018. In 2019, horizontal support in a narrow sense relates to a billion and 995 million kuna, to regional support of 956,9 million kuna, and to support at a local level of 996.6 million kuna. Horizontal support in a narrow sense in 2019 was allocated according to the following structure to protect the environment and energy efficiency of billions and 30 million kuna, accounting for 51.6% of support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Following support from small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, 332.9 million kuna or 16.7 and then for employment, for research and development, for culture and for the improvement of lower amounts, as shown in the report. As regards guarantees that do not have state support elements, it is important and I will point out briefly that 4 billion and 350 million kunas of national guarantees were issued in 2019. However, the majority of these guarantees issued amounting to 4 billion and 242 million kuna do not contain elements of state aid. State guarantees which do not contain elements of support relate to guarantees issued to finance the construction of road, rail and port infrastructures, and guarantees issued to entrepreneurs who are not considered entrepreneurs in hospital difficulties and the like. The activated, or protested guarantees in 2019 amount to a billion and 981 million kuna. They were activated in the shipbuilding sector in the amount of a billion and 977 million kuna, and the entrepreneur Uljannik and Uljanik Shipyard, and 4.2 million kunas were activated for the restructuring and rehabilitation of entrepreneurs in difficulty, and that is the recovery of the Immunological Institute d.d. As regards the support of small value, nothing less important than I said in the opening proceedings is therefore in the sense of the law and of Article 107(1). The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU is not considered to support but, for my own good, I will present them here briefly. They were allocated in 2019. A billion and 640 million kuna, which is 594.8 million kuna or 56.9 more compared to 2018. It's final. With regard to all the information presented in this report, a controlled increase in the aid granted compared to earlier periods including de minimis support is visible. The growth of state aid in itself does not necessarily have to bear negative economic connotations, and, above all, depends on the determination, nature, purpose, types of State aid, their positive impact on the economy, in this case the national economy. In particular, state support as an instrument of economic incentive affects competition, and in the case of their quality structure, entrepreneurs can benefit in the long term so that this reduces competition distortions. However, the structure of state aid which would overcome horizontal support in relation to sectoral support has not yet been achieved mainly as a consequence of major engagement and the allocation of state support to sectors that face difficulties manifested through the Transport and Shipbuilding Sectors. I'll remind the traffic has received a billion and 463 million kuna, a shipbuilding of nearly 2 billion kunas. It is important to emphasise this because horizontal support, as I have said, is one of the important objectives of economic policy, and also by the European Commission, is such that they have a significantly better impact on the economy and competitiveness and less negative effects of distortion of competition compared to sectoral, state support. Therefore, the ultimate aim is to reduce the share of sectoral state aid, and to define to the greatest extent possible models that are granted to support horizontal nature. In connection with this, and in the context of more recent events after the 2019 report, I am holding this opportunity for a short look at the structure of the granting of state aid during the course of the course of 2020, so what will follow this year as well. As a result of the recent developments in the work of entrepreneurs caused by the outbreak of covid 19 disease, the structure of granting state aid as a result of the global economic crisis is changing in a direction which will nevertheless mark state interventions aimed at saving the economy at a global level. Such a trend in which various sectors of the economy are expected to be assisted will certainly affect both Croatia and the EU at a certain time and time, respectively, a more significant change in the structure of state aid because state interventions on the market are justified in relation to potential competition distortions, and this was necessary due to all negative effects of the Coronal Virus at global level. Otherwise, and without adequate measures, the state would also threaten to permanently collapse many national economies. The epidemic of disease and the national global economic crisis have caused significant difficulties in the business of many economies at global level, and consequently the rules on state aid at EU level are adapted to new circumstances. In doing so, there was a mitigation of the criteria as you could see for yourself about granting state aid, primarily starting with so-called. the temporary framework of the European Commission defining state support for the economy. The impact of these measures on the movement of state aid allocation will certainly result in a change in the structure of the aid granted throughout the EU, whose achievements are still not yet estimated. Thank you very much for your attention. I'm at my disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38873	Here's a lot of replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38874	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, pages 19 and 20 speak of state guarantees, more specifically about the protested guarantees. The truth is that it's a small amount compared to the other items in the report, but I'm curious as to why these guarantees were activated and whether it might be someone's wrong judgment or failure or actually something third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38875	Thank you very much. What you're saying is I'm looking for this page to see exactly what the guarantee is, and here guarantees are issued without the support element of 15 billion protested guarantees 2 billion 537 that part. So, as I said earlier, we were hit most by that part of the protested guarantees which, within 2018, had a reflection of some seemed to me to be two and a half billion for the Oil Shipyard and teaching in 2019 of nearly two billion kunas. I don't see the difference from this report in a hurry, but we can look at it in peace later, and we can collect that part of the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38876	Next replica, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38877	Thank you very much. Why do you think the bank is a bitch of state support? I'm interested in the effects of the support. Here's the shipbuilding. For example, Brodotrogir received a number of support from two billion kunas. The owner of Danko Končar had an obligation to preserve the workers, to pay the wages. He makes hotels instead of shipbuilding. What is the purpose of this shipbuilding money for? Here's an example. Also in agriculture, you said it was part of it, it's 15 billion kuna. You're talking about agriculture, never more support, never more incentives, never less domestic production, never more imports. What's this about? You're acting like you don't have any results. What are the effects except it's a bank of pigs. Or an example of county, decentralised funds. It is not for the health care, the schooling, but for the parties' municipalities where they can manage well. Interested in the People of Croatian Effects Your effects and mine. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38878	Thank you. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative, your comment in the context of certain industries that you have now mentioned is not something that this government and the previous government did not pay attention to and do not follow. Indeed big money at EU level, and we look at ourselves being supported in terms of and restructuring of certain economic operators, so in this case, which you are now citing are restructurings for them several times in 2013. The money they received was to be spent in accordance with the law. The competent national authorities that you are now mentioning should act believe as you yourself know that they are also acting in the part that has been established and of course which, by law, any unlawful support is also a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38879	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38880	Thank you very much. He hurt Secretary of State in Article 238, where I asked him about the aid effects, because the fact is that we have some obligation to restructure Danka Končar, I believe, is your sponsor. What is he to you? He sponsors you when you keep your mouth shut? So what's wrong with you, Danko Konchar? Chovik doesn't pay people their salaries for eight months, the state has been supporting and encouraging two billion kunas to restructure Brodotrogir. He's making hotels downstairs. Here's Sanader knows it, Vice President. Now he's your sponsor, what is he to you? I'm interested in the effects. I'm not talking about hotels he works in Honey, I'm talking about shipbuilding and workers' salaries. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] I'm asking you one question, so this isn't your support bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38881	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting your first warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38882	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, this report for 2019 shows that the state is increasing its support and worrying. So, as we know, the European envelope has brought excellent figures for Croatia as well. We also have big money available for a new financial perspective in the future. It's 24.5 billion kuna. I'm sure there'll be plenty of money inside for further support. What is to be pointed out now, and not regarding the 2019 Report, but certainly that the state cares and that it stood behind each worker in particular for the preservation of jobs is paid 7.7 billion kuna for 2020. I don't think any country in the environment has given as much support as Croatia has given its workers and this government of Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38883	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm glad you mentioned this information and in the context of your colleagues, I'd like to hear this part. I also told him in the final part just by alluding to what you're saying right now, there's no box of bitches. The restructuring programme has been created, and those support used are intended to return to the state, and the institutions should do their job. And what you mentioned with these just for this period of 2020 when the covid crisis began 7.7 billion is for the preservation of jobs a total of 27 and a half billion kuna was given to the economy. In terms of time, I have to shorten, and as for the figures you mentioned, 24 and a half billion euros, we will get as far as the EU's recovery instruments are concerned, they amount to 10.96 billion euros, as regards the multiannual financial framework 13.57 billion. We already have money from the Solidarity Fund in the context of the earthquake and anti-covid measures on the availability of 717m euros. The recovery and resilience mechanism, for example, is 5 billion and 950 million in terms of the recovery instrument. The huge money that everyone now in good faith needs. in that sense and help the economy and get that same money back through the effects. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38884	The next replica is the distinguished representative Anita Pocrnjić Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38885	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned horizontal support in a narrow sense, including support for employment and training, through which 281 million kuna was awarded mostly through active employment policy measures of the Croatian Employment Service, which amounted to EUR 248 million. We can now talk about the effects here because almost 37,000 people have been involved and detained during 2019 thanks to these funds and funds from EU funds on the labour market. And when we add that during 2019, co-financed and persons from the previous period speak about 67,000 users of employment support in 2019. These are more difficult unemployed persons, meaning older people, young people up to 29 years of age, talking about the need to continue to allocate such funds in order to allow them to continue entering the labour market, but also to increase the employment rate at the level of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38886	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38887	Thank you very much, very much. So, this whole topic in the context of state support, and otherwise all other activities done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or ultimately the High House with its measures in the adoption of certain legislative solutions that have provided for such actions that you are now mentioning. The aim of the government is to help the Croatian people and all inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, and in this case by saying the economy, because sustainability of the economy is a basic prerequisite for sustainability and state budget. So the huge pressures of the state budget were both the beginning of the covid crisis, both now and further expressed through one and another earthquake. And thanks to the fact that we are members of the EU we have succeeded and we have the right to certain assistance from the same EU through their donations and to the assistance that we will receive as a state. It is clear that the state will continue with a systematic and systematic approach to measures where the need is always indicated, but of course also in line with the possibilities of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38888	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38889	Dear Secretary of State, I have a question about this report that you have today raised from which according to the information you have shown us specifically on pages 14 and 28 shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is systematically working to destroy Croatian entrepreneurship. First of all, we can look at the categories in the period 2017 to 2019, Table 4. You have a decline in industry and services. Furthermore, you have a drop in R & D investment in horizontal objectives and you continue to have a decline in investments in small and medium-sized enterprises. Here is an honest question how do you think that we will recover the Croatian economy if we have reduced investment in industry and services, if we have reduced investment in research and development where we are in a large deficit compared to the EU and if we have 10 times reduced investment in small and medium-sized and medium-sized entrepreneurship compared to 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38890	Thank you for asking. Of course, the impact of certain measures cannot always be seen in the context of their effects in terms of one year or year of teaching, so that this whole display and I am pleased with your question honestly. This whole display, and I am pleased with your question honestly, this whole display is going exactly what I have found at the beginning and at the end of the exhibition that the share of horizontal support must be increased. However, during this past period, several events that have turned that ladder in a different direction since the shipbuilding of those massive state guarantees. But surely all the investments you have mentioned here must be the goal, because the economy in this part and in this way, looking particularly through support, and that means that in fact in the economic part, it is not well structured. And that as the Ministry of Finance, we point out more and we especially knew how to highlight it when we emphasized that where we are fortunate that we can solve all our problems through taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38891	The next replica, distinguished representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38892	... that there is no point, so please report the disappearance of 400,000 Croatian citizens to the police who have escaped from support and good. [[Specially enabled.]] It's the only people who run away from the good. I mean, we have a billion people, and we're missing 400,000 people in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38893	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38894	Thank you for this question. Thank God I remember for a long time, I guess, because I was born a little early and I remember these movements unfortunately in our society and in the former state and in these many ways tried to be prevented. Now as a member of the EU, one common market is not enough for us to just say the heart, the hand on the heart, and let's do something, but we need to ensure that these citizens, that these people stay in the Republic. This problem has been experienced by all other Member States, the EU's policy, which has been repeatedly highlighted by our government as it used to be when it was a defence zone from the Turks. Don't take this the wrong way, but it's not the EU's job today, and it's not the EU's guarantee in Berlin, let's say it's the way it is, but it's the EU-wide joint action to keep our people from going, ready people going to richer countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38895	Next representative, Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38896	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Among other things, you were talking about state aid at the level of units of local, regional self-government. This is about smaller amounts of course related to the possibilities of cities, municipalities and counties. What pleases me is that 696 million were in 2019, which is as much as 26% more than the previous year, or 46% more than it was in 2017. It is mainly about subsidies, mainly land road transport financing. However, when further analysis is being carried out, it is evident that as much as 644 million helped the city of Zagreb by its Zagreb electric tram, which means that all other cities and municipalities have helped everything with 21 million of their company and again almost everything in land road transport. Which is to be expected in 2020 when we know we have and we have also had a health and economic crisis that has again brought less income to cities, municipalities and counties but also problems in road transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38897	Thank you very much for your question. What you have listed is clear and shown in the report itself. It would also add 150 million kuna to support small value. So the character of these support is horizontal, and we're not repeating it, so these are called good support in the jargon. So those support that benefit, which have effects, not to stimulate a particular company or industry in relation to some other branches. Unfortunately, as I finally said within the speech at the beginning of the 20th and the day today, here are now saying the third wave will continue this, with us the pandemic, the covid epidemic, the two earthquakes that have hit the Republic of Croatia extremely, and I sincerely hope and believe that these recovery instruments and the multi-annual financial framework will give us enough space to have the resources that should be reasonably used in the future. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38898	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38899	Dear Secretary, we can freely say that we all swear that small and medium-sized enterprises are the main bearer of production and development in the Republic of Croatia. However, when we look at the share of support to small and medium enterprises in this table on page 14. That's not what it looks like, especially if we're looking at trends. I would ask that if it is no problem to comment on this small percentage of participation, i.e. the share of support for small and medium enterprises. It was still around 7 and a half percent in 2017. However, 2018 fell to 0.84 and 2019 to 2.19. Is the reason that there was no interest, is the reason that the support requests were rejected or any other reason. The second question from which sectors are entrepreneurs who received support and how much in total there was ad hoc support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38900	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38901	Thank you very much. As I am colleagues with Troscott, I would like to say to you that when you start from the structure of the economy and then lean on it, granting support to individual support providers are obliged to develop programmes that would be acceptable, of course and report to the European Commission where it is necessary for them not to be an illicit state support. This section also looks at the way in which each region or individual industries develops or depends on the type of support. For your questions whether or not this report has been rejected by the Ministry of Finance, I have no such information but the holders of these same support whether it was those who were rejected. If and rejected, they have been rejected in the context of the single support programme itself. And as I was here during the opening speech, I commented on the rule that support is the most relevant to those industries that support society, so from the roads, from the hospitals to the further yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38902	The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38903	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President, the Honored Secretary of State, so the government, within its guidelines for the period 2019 to 2021, has actually determined that the importance will actually be given to horizontal support. However, what we still have, and that is all that has been inherited from the previous periods, gives a large share of exactly these sectoral ones, unfortunately, which will eventually be reduced. What I would like to point out is that the share in GDP of these aids is actually increasing, so their amount has exceeded 3.8% compared to the EU average, the EU country where that is only 0.5%. So this speaks of how much we still need to encourage our producers and different horizontal support especially in order to Picked up. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38904	Thank you very much. I'm glad to hear about your question. But in this very sense, it wants to put emphasis on horizontal support, not on sectoral support, which whenever a particular problem is created or occurs is trying to find a solution for the state to resuscitate or help the economy in a third way. It's all right, and if we're going to look at the general economic interest that the Republic of Croatia did in 2019, that amount was $3,417 billion, and it was given from road traffic as I was just responding to rail, air and so forth. So one general infrastructure that the state itself must worry about, but that encouraging the economy does not necessarily need to be direct support but is about support in the context of both tax and other regulations. We have an Investment Encouragement Act which is in the power of the Ministry of Economy where it allows a company to invest a certain number of people and capital for 10 years without paying a profit tax or contributing to this salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38905	Thank you. Now we're going to a club debate. It is the first club of MPs of the Homeland Movement, the esteemed representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38906	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, since this year's census was temporarily delayed, an important look at the assessment of the State Statistics Office on demographic developments since the last census in 2011 when we had 4 million and 284 thousand residents. The assessment of institutions based on official records of the Republic of Croatia says that over the past decade we have fallen to 4 million 47 thousand, which means a loss of at least 240,000 inhabitants of our beautiful Croatia. However, our new emigrants go to EU countries and do not log out so quickly, it is an unofficial assessment of demographics that there are only 3 people between 3.8 million and 3.9 million at the moment. It is further concerned by the drastic change in age structure which has a strong impact on both budget expenditures and the potential for economic growth. For the first time in history, we have fewer children and young people to 19 years of age than those over 65. We have 77,000 young people, and over 65 years of age, we have 863,000. Since EU entry over the past 8 years, the number of primary and secondary school students has decreased by about 65,000, which is a city the size of Karlovac and higher. For nothing, demographers and experts of various profiles warn that this is a significant earthquake, but its consequences we will not feel for another 10 to 20 years when the situation will be irreparable, and for all reactions it will be too late. Any responsible authority would immediately deal with these problems without hesitation. The first concrete move could be for example. Turning children's allowance from the social category into the right of each child. With the current 1.3 billion kuna, if we raise 5 billion and some more kuna, every under-age child in Croatia could receive 100 EUR a month, on average EUR 100, which would be invaluable to our families and a huge boost to the start of positive trends and one of the long-term solutions. The ruling rejects such proposals because the Republic of Croatia allegedly cannot handle it financially, but an analysis of budget expenditure clearly shows that it is not true. Also, the Government's Annual Support Report for 2019 shows that the funds to launch the development of the Republic of Croatia have just enough in a strange way the sanitary corridor reroutes that money so that absolutely nothing positive happens. What would they say in the people, there is and there is no. It is recalled by state support that funds allocated from the state budget, the county budget, cities, municipalities, funds, legal entities owned by the state, such as JANAF through expenditures or revenue cuts, for example. tax exemptions, contributions, etc. The government's report shows that 15.2 billion kuna in the Republic of Croatia was total allocated in 2019, representing 3.8% of GDP, not in 2019, or around 11% of the total expenditure of the state. Compared to 2017, the total amount of support increased by 3 billion kuna or 0.5% in GDP, which speaks of a strong growing trend in support. The largest part of the growth is agricultural support, which accounts for as much as 44% of the total aid, which increased by 1.5 billion kuna from 5.2 billion to 6.7 billion. During all this time total agricultural production has fallen with further deterioration in the structure of production. This year, the government boasted of stopping the decline, but as it was achieved. It has been achieved through the growth of grain production, which is mainly exported outside, and then we import agricultural products with extra value added, such as milk, meat, eggs, and not to talk about the 10 million EUR that we extract annually and import frozen bakery products. Is that in the program from field to table? It is through Italy, Poland and Germany. On the other hand, as many as 2 billion kunas are still being allocated to support shipbuilding, and since Croatia was left alone, tens of billions of kunas have been spent for this purpose and have not contributed to the implementation of a sustainable strategy for the development of the economic branch, they have not. Nearly 300 million kunas each year stand out for employment and training programmes, but unfortunately the results are not seen. They're not on HZMO reports. In addition to paying the TV subscription, we also issue an additional 1.3 billion kuna per year on radio television broadcasts. And so we could for hours while our citizens still remain deprived of what they need. No less important in the national development strategy is the goal of strengthening regional competitiveness where the government has set its task to reduce the economic development gap between the City of Zagreb and the most underdeveloped counties in the Republic of Croatia, such as my Virovitičko-podravska or Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska from 3.10 to 2.5 times. For this purpose, as can be seen from the report in 2019, rural development support amounting to 2.6 billion kuna was paid. In total, the government spent €2.3 billion in the rural development programme between 2015 and 2020, the secretary of state, €2.3 billion now around €17.4 billion, of which 2 billion came from the EU and the rest came from the Croatian budget. In recent months, after a devastating earthquake in Banovina, you could see under what difficult conditions people lived there before the earthquake itself. There's no sign of a billion loose for rural development except maybe a few footsteps are made by some circular current. I invite you all to come to Virovitica-Podravska County, the poorest county in the Republic of Croatia and see where these billions of people are being spent. And we had a historic opportunity to realize even regional development and to keep life in these rural areas. We didn't do anything. Dear ladies and gentlemen, without great expert analyses, only reading various reports and proposals of the government's budget is clear how funds for the economic and demographic development of the Republic of Croatia are sufficient. Being the second most underdeveloped country in the EU is not our destiny; it is not our destiny, but the consequences of the incompetent and corrupt management of our resources. That's where he brought us. Unfortunately, in a country that regularly returns with one of the medals from the competition, when it comes to corruption, we are always among the first three, and in which negative selection and nepotism have reached an unsuspecting extent, these funds are not spent for the purpose of balanced and sustainable economic and demographic development. As long as these fundamental problems of our society and the management of public goods are not resolved, the fate of these EUR 23 billion announced by the government for months will not be any better than the funds spent over the past 10 years. The country's movement strongly supports our economies' support policy. They have all other countries, and we need them to be competitive. Without support, our great and small businessmen can't make it. However, we are against this sharing of support because it is obvious that they do not give the desired results. No, we're missing 400,000 people in the state means we're not doing something right. We are looking for an urgent revision of all the criteria and methods of allocating these funds in order to really initiate the sustainable economic development that our citizens rightly expect. Let the public know how much money you've given to whom you've given these support, that people know. I live in the poorest county, we talk nonstop about rural development support, I don't know where that money goes, where that money ends. Make it public so we all know once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38907	The next debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Mr. Zekanovic is missing, losing his right. The next debate is the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38908	Dear Croatian peoples who look at us all through small screens, Mr. Secretary of State and I would agree in the fact that the indicator which is the indicators that are visible in this report is that there has been a failure to invest in entrepreneurship. What my thesis is about to show, and I don't agree with Mr. Secretary of State, is that this trend is visible today. Not only does it stop in 2019 but it is visible today, and let's say the best example of it will be today's meeting with Mr Plenkovic in Brussels. Well, let's get it straight. So, if this report is detailed, it is visible on pages 14 and 28 that I have already mentioned that investment in industry and services is a further fall in research and development and what I will specifically touch is small and medium entrepreneurship. As for research and development itself, so an EU average of 2.2%, and we are somewhere at 1.1%, which means that we would reach an EU level at all, we should double research and development in terms of the support itself. Supports as such are always there by the state given to boost the economy. So that's the main purpose of the support itself. So you can see about smaller, smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs, if you look at the trend of 2017, especially in the horizontal objectives you can see that investment in entrepreneurship was somewhere near around billions of kuna, so it is a very interesting fact that the next year the investment was 10 times less in small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and then we end up in 2019 at some 16% relative to the horizontal objectives which is insufficient for the development of Croatian entrepreneurship. So what's visible from this is one anti-enterprise spirit, or the development of an anti-market economy, because all the countries are developed in the world, so the main generators of growth are businesses, entrepreneurs or the real sector that we see from this report falling. And now, although Mrs Peric has stated that the support has grown from 3.2% to 3.8% in some trend over the past four years, therefore this is not visible to growth on or on investments in entrepreneurship alone, or growth and development, which is actually the key to the growth of any economy. Point 2, as seen in 2020, therefore, does not implement structural reforms, so 300 public records families are eligible to sacrifice 300,000 completed citizens. And it was interesting to watch how, say in the FINE reports, it was visible when it was a moratorium on top, it was an institution that recorded several million, namely 30 million kunas of loss, which is interesting how it actually lives on, on the top of our citizens. It is interesting to look at it during 2020 and therefore further to my thesis that it is systematically working on an anti-enterprise and anti-market economy where, for example, because of one HGK sacrifice and entrepreneurs, let's remember the vote for HGK, fishermen were sacrificed that day, the inhabitants of Banovina, etc. The craftsmen were sacrificed to protect the HGK, so recently we had this vote where we saw that, according to many indicators, the ruling party shows that we are not going towards the EU's market principles or what the EU itself is growing on, but the socialism that we have seen in Yugoslavia. So, you can see this trend of not implementing reforms, and through this non-implementation of structural reforms, because it is amazing to see that at such a small reform as membership on the HGK and craft chamber, which in countries such as Slovakia, Estonia, Slovenia, etc., past much painlessly, we face major blockades of the final step-up in the market economy where, where we all boast and are full of the mouth of all parties and the market economy, but unfortunately I don't see it in the works. Now, the final proof of this thesis that I'm going through today's exposure to this anti-enterprise or anti-market spirit is precisely this subject of grants. So today, Mr Plenkovic is in the EU and the European Commission itself has said through a provision that it is not prescribed anywhere that a certain percentage of investment in the public sector or in the private sector. Unfortunately, even today, our entrepreneurs do not know what it means with the 30.4. how much it will be invested in the private sector itself. Is that 7%, is that 10%, is that 30% nobody knows that. However, what entrepreneurs themselves say, so without a total investment of EUR 24 billion, or EUR 170 billion, depending on the rate that Croatia should withdraw from the EU by 2026, so a minimum of 50% should be invested in the private sector. So, it's not because of some advantage to entrepreneurs, but it's some percentage that they invested in, for example, one Denmark, in which one Slovenia invested, in order to, for example, improve competitiveness for one reason when this crisis ended, so it'll be visible what countries were investing in, what countries were investing in. It's impossible to accept, and I've seen in these reports presented to us by Mr. Secretary of State is to subsidize, to finance interest subsidies. So today, interest subsidies have no effect whatsoever, there is no effect on the capital market because interest rates are extremely small. You, when you look at investments such as one Denmark, one Slovenia and other EU countries, you see them investing in capital projects, digitising and modernising the production park and not financing interest but subsidising even up to 70% of the total cost. As far as the public sector is concerned, no one is opposed to investing in the public sector, however, investment mathematics is very simple. So, on one kuna investment in the private sector, so a private investor or entrepreneur needs to invest 3 to 4 kuna, and it gets bigger returns, gets bigger revenues, makes bigger wages, and we get an absolute growth in the economy. On the other hand, if we invest in the public sector in one kuna as much as we can, and that is calculated, the maximum amount of income or return is one kuna, provided that it is effectively managed by the funds that have been invested. Otherwise, if we get less invested on one kuna, less refund than one kuna, it means that the public, because of such inefficient public administration, taxes will have to be raised and therefore certain burdens must be raised. Here's a constructive proposal, how to, say, connect privately and publicly. For example, investment in the system or rationalisation of the sick system. It has been calculated that somewhere around 15 billion kuna is the cost of living in the Republic of Croatia, and according to HZZO data somewhere around 30%, watch out 30% is unwarranted. Which means we'd like to see what that 24 billion will be invested in. But here's a constructive proposal, so why don't we, for example, invest in one diagnostic, and then maybe 30% of the unwarranted, so the lack of becoming, and that way, we'll cut the cost to the entrepreneurs and also to the state on the other hand. Here is a constructive proposal in which, for example, we can connect the public, public and private sectors. So 40 days left as a deadline for handing over documents, no one knows, no one knows what this means or what the money is going to be invested in, or 24 billion. Entrepreneurs already have 42 billion ready, so projects, both in terms of mathematics and in return, and given the situation we are in, and given the trends that we have looked at that very report that our secretary of state has analyzed, it is evident that we are not going to finance entrepreneurship in the Republic. And that is, especially, the MOST Club is saddening because it's just a growth generator. We're the last to be competitive, we're the last to be productive. Our production park is outdated and we have production of less value. So, the only way to invest in entrepreneurship is to get us out of this situation. Any other investment would be unreasonable and any other investment would be an increase in the state apparatus, which will then no longer be able to finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38909	The next debate is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38910	... My colleagues, from the current course of the debate, there is one thing that is clear, and that is to support the unsustainable growth. [[Specially enabled.]] It is not something we would like, therefore, that the objectives that are generally set in this area on which the secretary of state is invoking and something is said to be reduced and total and relatively, therefore by the head of the population because it simply says that whether an economy works, whether it is functional or not. If support is increasing it means that there are too many problems actually in the economy and that the state has to intervene. So as a political option, we are generally not against intervention as such in all situations where this intervention will result in a certain positive step. The adoption of a shipbuilding restructuring programme in 2013-14 was not a failure as late as the process later came forward, it was not failed at the beginning because it had provided for 5 years, at least 5 years for the restructuring process and the gradual transition of shipbuilding from that mess that we then encountered and had to do with what was to be achieved under these restructuring programmes. But apparently in the transitions of one government, the other government, the third government, in only 3-4 years, lost control of the process. Let's be objective. So he lost control of the process and that story went wrong. And we're where we are, or a year ago, two of us came back into a completely invisible, invisible situation that resulted naturally and partly in the growth of support for the protesting guarantees in shipbuilding. That's the facts. However, it is not only a shipbuilding problem. The problem is a whole range of sectors that are being donated through state support, especially the transport sector. Here, these weeks we have witnessed the suspension of the last lines of railways from Dalmatia towards the mainland, towards the interior. The last lines are down. Therefore, it is clear that this railway has no permanent basis to operate, to function and operate and with state support in a certain and sustainable way as much as possible, so people there have decided that those lines that were still left in a small number and that they would cancel because the only thing we can talk about is how much, let's not say profitable because I believe that these lines are not rentable either, but at least some of the revenues are these suburban Zagreb lines on the route around in a radius of 100-150 km. And that's it. And that's why they decide on such radical and drastic measures, so by abolishing it, let's say the centuries-old habit that there is a railroad that connects I don't know Split, Zadar from the inside. And there are Croatian problems, so the problem of railways is not solved to this day, although all governments have tried to make certain moves and obviously we will not, simply something has to change in the transfer of some positive experiences from some advanced other countries where railways represent the fastest de facto link except perhaps an airplane, the fastest link from point A to point B. Is it possible in Croatia I honestly do not know, I am not an expert on it, but only under that condition the railways can again be in Croatia, being something that is a respectable branch to say so in transport. What is visible from the report is also this ratio of these sectoral and horizontal support, and we have heard here that I am not the most concerned that there is insufficient support for research and development within the horizontal support. So, without researching R&D development, we cannot make that key step in the structure of Croatian economies. Now this R&D in state aid is at 1.5% of all the total aid granted. It's a catastrophic number, really very little. So we can't do that, people. The main sector of course goes to the sectors of which I mentioned shipbuilding, transport, transport and railways and roads. There are always a billion and 300 million HRTs, which is the same part of the support because statistically so expressed, etc., means a whole series of items repeated year after year, but we don't see these qualitative shifts in the structure of state aid. And that's what all of us have to worry about together. Watch out for me, we're talking about 2019 in 2019, so in 2019 we're recording the share of support and nominally from 12 to 15 billion and in the range of 2017-2019, as a percentage of 3.3 to 3.8% of GDP, in the budget from 9.7 to 10.8%, means in all elements and by the head of the population. So from 2,900 kuna to even 3,700 kuna per capita in 2 years, the support has increased. And imagine what a 2020 report will be when we include what the secretary of state was saying and what we all know well that huge money should have been poured into the business sector, according to entrepreneurship and support of 8.9 billion just to preserve jobs, with the follow-up measures. Unfortunately, I have to make one observation here, I'm afraid there's this political dimension of support in that segment where it may have gone too quickly in that first stage of the crown, so in the spring a year ago, when it simply spent the full potential of financing the consequences of the crown continuing the crisis. This is what we should be concerned about and what we are looking objectively at in the Croatian public today, especially in the entrepreneurial sector, people are crying out for certain new support to survive. I fear that all that effort that was made a year or 10 months ago in the next few months will not completely fail and that the stock market will again be filled with our people who will be out of work because there will not be enough money because that money was spent there before those parliamentary elections in 4, 5, 6 months 20120. That's where the government is a little bit I'd say politically calculated, and I'm afraid it doesn't come back as a boomerang to our people and to run out of support, that this vaccination process and everything that's done in the fight against the crown crisis doesn't give effects by summer, then it'll be a really big problem again. Even these announcements are here very soon we will face the Tourist Services Act here where it is proposed that after certain deadlines expire that vouchers that have helped many agencies and tourist employees survive and overcome this crisis, where they will be obliged to pay back their money to their users services. From where? I wonder where he'll get that money back from? Well, they'll all go bankrupt overnight if they really have to pay that money back. And that, please, is only the first reading, I ask you to seriously consider this problem and allow people to survive. But I'm saying there's going to be an opportunity to talk about this, for today so much. A special topic, I would like to open the topic of regional support because Croatia is highly regionally dispersed, so with huge regional development differences. I do not know why the Government is making it difficult, or not the Government, but the President of the Parliament to put in place a point that we have launched an interpretation of the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema" to talk seriously and openly about regional support and in particular about this so-called "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema". PR projects to see if there's really something done or just some results we have to wait for in some future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38911	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Nikola Mažar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38912	Dear Vice-President of the HS, Honored Secretary of State Zrinasic, esteemed counterparts and fellow MPs. Before us is the Annual Report of the Ministry of Finance on State aid for 2019. The report shall contain an analytical demonstration of all state aid and support of small value allocated in the Republic of Croatia in 2019. with revised data for 2017 and 2018 The report was based solely on information on the state aid granted and small-value support provided by the aid providers through the Register of State aid and small-value support until 1 July 2020. which certainly says that the support is bigger in view of the dates of reception, which we personally know through the City of Vukovar's Reconstruction and Development Fund, where revenue from the budget grew from 20 to 40 and ultimately to 73 million kuna and what citizens of the City of Vukovar were in 2019. I'm sure you've felt it. The report also includes support for agriculture and fisheries although they are not subject to the law, but it is prescribed by that law that the competent Ministry of Agriculture is obliged to cooperate with the Ministry of Finance on this point and the report should also include information on state aid in agriculture and fisheries and I personally welcome what is presented on the 73 pages of the Annual Report not only a series of data, a series of tables and all that matters to us as representatives but we also see concrete measures taken through this. Here we heard earlier that the rise in state aid in some way was partly welcomed by certain parties, but I must point out that we should look at this report on 2019. Yes, 2019. The Republic of Croatia registered economic growth, recorded the rise of credit ratings from stable in investment, the successful tourist season was recorded, the World Bank moved through the Doing Business Republic for seven places to 51st instead, so the macroeconomic indicators of the Republic of Croatia through the government policy were more than positive and successful and of course that the Republic of Croatia at the time when all the indicators of the climbing decided to help through the increase of state support to the administrative parts of the economy that needed that aid. And that is why I am personally pleased that through all the help that has gone to agriculture and fishing and horizontal support we have managed in some way to raise all these companies, entrepreneurs, businessmen and unfortunately none of us could have expected to be in 2020. I would say historical given the Covid-19 pandemic, and unfortunately, here we are in the Republic of Croatia and the devastating earthquakes, that we have also enabled these increased support to be more prepared and they welcome this 2020. As we heard in 2019. In the Republic of Croatia, the growth of state aid was continued compared to earlier periods, and a total of 15 billion kuna was allocated, which is an increase of 254 million kuna and 1.7% respectively compared to 2018. But what shows how much this increase has been back in recent years is certainly the fact that it is an increase of 23.1% versus 2017. that is, an increase of 2 billion and 825 million kuna. The share of support in GDP is in 2019. 3.8%, employee support amounted to 9.775 kuna and support per capita in the Republic of Croatia amounted to 3.707 kuna, while the share of State expenditure support was 10.87%. As regards therefore aid in the agricultural and fisheries sector in 2019, They were allocated to the amount of 6 billion and 677 million kuna, which is more than 8.4% compared to 2018 and 28.2% compared to 2017. Support in industry and services sector in 2019 They were allocated to an amount of 8 billion and 524 million kuna, which is less than €262 million compared to 2018, but more than one billion and €382 million, respectively, is 19.4% compared to 2017. Supports to specific sectors or sectoral support were granted in 2019. 4.9 billion kuna, and as we could hear above all 2 billion kuna for shipbuilding, a billion and a half kuna for the transport sector, and for public radio broadcasting services 1.3 billion kuna, for postal services 94 million kuna, and for the rehabilitation and restructuring of entrepreneurs in difficulty 9.2 million kuna. The horizontal support that we in some way want as a government or as a Republic of Croatia to go includes regional support and support at local level and they are in 2019. allocated to the amount of 3 billion and 648 million kuna, which is more than 180 million kuna or 5.2% compared to 2018. Only horizontal support in a narrow sense in 2019. They have been allocated to protect the environment and energy efficiency worth one billion kuna. Support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs 332.9 million kuna or 16.7% and for the employment of 272.9 million kuna or 13.7%. Also for research and innovation development 233 million kuna or 11.7%. Regional support has been granted amounting to 956 million kuna, an increase of 100 million kuna, and units of regional and local and regional self-government have allocated a total of 696 million kuna, which is more than 144 million kuna. All of these data show therefore the growth of the aid granted in relation to earlier periods, and the structure of state aid which would be dominated by horizontal support compared to sectoral ones has not yet been achieved even though their difference or reduction in the difference is seen. In challenging times under the influence of the Covid-19 pandemic and the devastating earthquakes, I would like to highlight the timely and adequate reaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, by means of necessary and rapid measures, helped the economy as a whole and the structure of the national support granted, maintained investment ratings and successfully saved the economy at the state level. State aid will also be necessary in the coming period through adequate, timely and effective measures to maintain economic activity and prevent its collapse, which would certainly result in 100,000 new unemployed. Finally, in all respects of all the above mentioned HDZ Representatives' Club will support the annual State Aid Report 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38913	Next debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38914	Dear chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have an exhaustive statistical review, i.e. the Annual Report on State aid for 2019, so a statistical review showing figures, users, the formal legal basis for granting support. So we see from it in 2019. A total of 15 billion kuna support was granted in the Republic of Croatia, which is an increase compared to 2018. from 1.7% and even 23.1% compared to '17. Share of total support granted in GDP in 19. was 3.8%. We heard here and here and support per employee was 9,000 and almost 800 kuna, and per capita in RH 3,700 kuna. The share of total state expenditure support was almost 11%. On the one hand, when we look at this report for, I would say commendation is to give such an insight into the details, so we have a detailed review of the various criteria that support has been granted. On the other hand, however, the question can be asked whether this review is intended to fatigue the reader without entering the content itself and the essence of the topic. In fact, the key issues in support are what they aim at, whether the objective is achieved effectively and how long the support will last. To explain a little bit to those who listen, state aid to companies is a form of state intervention, covering all the expenditure or lost revenues of the state, e.g. where aid is granted in the form of tax reliefs used to promote economic activity. The granting of State aid implies a procedure which puts the state in a position of certain economic sectors, regions or businesses to promote economic activity. However, state aid is in fact a threat to the competition because it introduces discrimination between aid companies and those with whom the aid has been denied. State aid is granted to state-owned enterprises, and the notion of state resources is very wide and includes funds allocated from the state budget or funds lost for the state budget... tax reliefs, as well as state resources allocated to other state administrative units or agencies. State aid is considered to violate the principle of impartial and free competition, which means a restriction in the functioning and development of the single European market. As a result, Europe has set up a system of rules allowing Member States to use state support on exceptional occasions and the European Commission may prohibit state support which is not granted in accordance with the criteria set out. In principle, all horizontal support can be said to be good support, such as support for research and innovation, environmental protection, energy savings, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, support for training, employment, culture, conservation of cultural heritage while, on the other hand, vertical or sectoral support are in some way poor support, such as Shipbuilding of railways, etc. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Support granted to horizontal objectives in that narrow sense amounted to nearly 2 billion kuna and were less than 64 million kuna or 3% compared to '18. and less for 130 million kuna or 6% compared to '17. From that, only 332 million kuna or 16.7% were allocated to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and 233 million kuna or 11.7% for research and innovation development, which is significantly less than '17. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The share of support for small and medium-sized enterprises in total allocated support in the Republic of Croatia is 2.19%, the share of the total aid granted in the sector of industry and services is 3.91%, the share in the horizontal objectives of 16.68% while the share in GDP is only 0.08%. In Croatia's economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore share 99.7%, so large businesses only 0.3%. The number of employees in small and medium-sized enterprises is almost three-quarters of all employees. And here, in the very conclusion of this report, the structure of state aid, which would be dominated by horizontal support in relation to sectoral support, has not yet been achieved, which is largely due to economic opportunities requiring increased engagement and granting state support to the sectors facing difficulties, mainly in the section of the shipbuilding sector and business events resulting in the collapse of the shipbuilding industry in Pula and Rijeka. So this is a devastating fact, which is that small and medium entrepreneurship, research and innovation are victims of failed industries such as shipbuilding into which we pour money like in a black hole, and what would bring us encouragement and economic development we ignore. This report is about 2019. which we can now call from the position of the global pandemic once in seven fat years due to the difficulties caused by the 2020 coronary virus. Last year, therefore, in 2020, it will mark additional state interventions aimed at saving the economy at global level, and we can say that State intervention on the market itself is justified in this 2020. Due to possible here, the competition report said, and this was in some way necessary because of all the negative effects of the coronary virus in the last year. From all of this, we can conclude that general support see significant growth, reaching almost 4% of GDP, which is a very high percentage, which is expected in view of the increasing availability of funds from eu funds, but there is no question about the effects of support, and that is the topic that should actually be discussed, what is their development impact. Their developmental impact is such that Croatia remains the poorest EU country, looking before this crown of crisis, so on all the rankings that talk about the development of the economy and society, we are still at the beginning of Europe. Now we have entered the period to call it seven hungry years, how we will survive depends exclusively on how we prepare in the previous seven fat years or in the previous period. We see from this report that we have not invested enough in development, not enough in small and medium-sized enterprises that are engines of economic development, too much in the failed industry. And that is why we are simply coming out of this crisis that we're going to be in, we're going to be getting out a lot harder and much longer than all the other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38915	Following individual debates, the first representative is Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38916	When we talk about support then of course that the support in some things is very important and significant, here I can mention an example of regional self-government which the trial would, of course, end literally, I'll tell you the reasons. Here, take a look, for example. health services, the Croatian State provides certain incentives, subsidies through the budget of decentralised funds. And what's done by that money instead of investing in health care is done pre-election asphalting. No one controls that, mostly now pre-election asphalting without this asphalting. But if funds were directly financed by local self-governments that were needed in certain incentives or education or certain other things, then that would be okay. Then it's some kind of decentralisation. This is how he had a centralization called decentralisation because of course the triba to come to Split-Dalmatia County so that the Triba Ante Sanader read which party, who is against, who is for, is HDZ in power, is he in power, is he, then they divide it as they fit and thus everything turns into pre-election activities. When I was a mayoral candidate last election, then I went to Imotski like this at this time and all that support instead of being invested in health care, education, schools, infrastructure, you know where they went, in asphalting, you can't go through Imotski. You can't just walk by, truck after truck. I once literally said that no more chicken on top, up to the cubes are asphalts at this time. And the biggest support is this year. It's a simple reason, you manipulate people's support because if the support went where they needed to go, if they went to health support, the development of health care, then people would stay in the area. Had there been support for education, for the infrastructure for the survival of people in the area would have remained people. But it's not like that. Or significant projects that would have to be done for four years, but not to support the kindergarten so where, there in Vukevica, where the colleague Sanader is from. Then there's a tunnel for Kozjak that's gone and now there's 40 million kuna. Al Cetin region 50,000 people, the property landscape doesn't trip a date on the highway, what do we need, what do we don't need, we don't know we're driving on asphalt and four strips. It's the Wolf's Tribba. Now, you tell me where these support is going, where are those support coming from, and who? And, of course, from the Cetina region, the Imot region, from the island that people will be moving out, the vregor end. Is that support? Or an example, another example. I was just mentioned earlier, I was talking about it. Support the railroad. Why the night train was shut down, why our students, as a fine County co-financed our students, but in order to make them go as little as possible let us lift the night train without it from Split to Zagreb. What was the reason to lift the night train from 1925 was the night train, through Lika, to Split, abolished it, for what it will do to us, zero investment towards Dalmatia. So some things triba encourage, have support because it is important for the survival of people in this area because Croatia is not only Zagreb or this 3, 4 cities big, it is not, nor should we be. Every part of Croatia must be supported to remain people in this area, whether Slavonia, whether my Zagora, or not, anywhere near Zagorje, Gorski Kotar. Every piece of land we look at and be inhabited. Not 2/3 of Croatians have been emptied, and many support is being given. Or, in the shipbuilding of 2 billion kunas to Brodotrogiru, you restructure it and now instead of investing in shipbuilding to keep 600 people out of the contract to make ships so that that survival of people in the area does hotels of Končar and no one else. 2 billion kunas given for the restructuring of the shipyard and no one is doing anything. Well, it's not a box of bitch support, it's supposed to be the part that's working. It's very It's important. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38917	We have replicas respected, the right replica is the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38918	Dear Mr Bulj, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and congratulate you on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, and secondly I am very interested because you are an expert in this field, so I see here that the Croatian Government has invested some 6.6 billion kuna in support of the agriculture and fisheries sector. So here's what I'm curious about is what you're seeing here, and I've singled out especially since you're dealing with these very issues of 2.8 million kuna for a national support program for a system called the Cow Tele. So I'd ask you to know for sure by what criteria these funds have been given. I've heard that those assets were given to people who thought it was a purple cow. But I'd like to ask you to comment on that and give your view of it. And the second question, I see here that some 2.93 million were given to fishermen, and we saw for ourselves during the crown that we closed all the markets and finally our people couldn't even sell this fish at the market. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38919	A well-known means of sharing support. An example in Lika how the minister shared the support of State Secretary Rimac in the Krava Tele system. No cows, no calves, and the incentives went. And they probably saw it on Milka Chocolate when they saw it, so they think it's a cow or maybe a moving vehicle carrying milk from who knows where. So support and incentives have never been higher in agriculture, and they've never been imported again, ever again. And the simple question is, here's to ask is now a question and that you have a system of checks, a system, I think an analysis is simple, you give billions in agriculture, and to whom you give, to whom. Well people don't know not the Krava calf system he doesn't know how many cows have tits, I mean I repeat it so it's already sang letters. They don't know how many cows there are, so you don't have people moving you in Slavonia anymore, you see how much support there is, so get up in control. 6 billion never again Imported, never produced less. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38920	The next replica is Honorable representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38921	Thank you, Mr. Sanader's chairman. Here is my colleague Bulj and I join you as a Croatian knight and the greatest fighter for the little man, I hope that this example will follow the other colleagues in the assembly. What's the fact that we can't applaud this final number of allocations, but I don't think there should be any way in which I'm not going to say spit, but I think it's on one level. If she could be bigger, I believe she is, but let's just say she's good enough or good enough. What is so symptomatic of me in that whole story is the fact, do you think that the criteria based on which the funds were actually allocated were some sort of one objective way and therefore do you think that the incentives themselves ended with those who would actually have an objective wind in the back? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38922	So the aim of the support would be to be wind in the back of our farmer, economics, our OPGs, our undeveloped areas, our local self-governments in Dalmatia Zagora, Lica, Gorski kotar they would tribal be wind in the back, not a bunch of pigs how to win elections. So they already have 50... zeros in the voices I mean it's, really when a guy thinks about how many trucks he's chasing there through your property landscape, the ZUC you don't know di nadir anymore. They're literally begging the grandmothers kneeling in front of the grandmothers, they're kneeling. I wish it was a significant project, so leave some land to have di chicken stuffed, so it won't be egg black. Well you can't just asphalt and... get it I mean it's amazing. Ecologically, first of all, it wasn't aware to the stakes to pave the way for... I mean, the egg to be organically clean in the Imot region of the Cetina region. Of course the triba's real projects I support, they're gone, it's important that that goes to Vučevica 4 tapes 40 million And for your end. ... [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38923	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38924	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's my colleague Bulj and I'll join the congratulations. We are healthy and happy to continue to enjoy ourselves like this. So since in your presentation you've been very busy investing and supporting yourself in education and hospital health, I assume that you found that part in this report, have you found? It says here, it writes finely this way that it is not considered a state support which in this report, state support is also not considered to help educational institutions and hospitals. So you couldn't find it in this part. And here's only the last rebalancing in 2020. 2.24 billion kuna is set aside for the recovery of hospitals' debt to major drugstores.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38925	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38926	Look, you got yourself into the part where this report doesn't get in, I'm talking about decentralisation. I went a little bit in the direction where the state's money is being spent, meaning the decentralised funds that come into the county at the cashier's cashier's cash register and then the elections are being won. If you were Chief, if you weren't... in HDZ if you were to get kunas for Vodice, the tribals wouldn't be able to win. They should be servants. So it's a system that holds the mayors of the municipalities to serve the mayors, and down is not the mayor... Sanader's at my place. What he's saying is, Ante what, it doesn't have to be the Shipic who missed him there, it can't be the mayor, it can't be the sea, so now he's telling you what you want. So the support is given exclusively by the party's card is not good, so we don't have criteria and systems, non-essential support or decentralised funds, it doesn't matter at all. But there must be no box of pigs for pre-election purposes. Well, you know that the asphalting has started now, so you can't go from rollers to villages anymore. So even samples to take out I think you can see the menus... I don't know where you're at in Vodice you're probably seeing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38927	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sinisha Jankač.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38928	Here's the Honorable Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I join the birthday cards. Here you have mentioned the election year, but we are talking today about the support in 2019. means not in 2020, but memory always serves me well, I remember that you are very much in favour of helping shipbuilding and shipyards and that here the Government will destroy shipbuilding, shipyards, and right now you are criticising sectoral support in shipbuilding. So one good part of the support in 2019. He went to this sectoral support and rescue of shipbuilding, and you're up for it, and now here you're saying it's not good and it needs to be different support, so here's a little comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38929	I would say thank you for your good wishes, for all of you who congratulated me. Yeah, I'm gonna subsidize shipbuilding, but to make out of that money are ships, not... from Conchar to do Danko Conchar to make a hotel, you understand. I'm for shipbuilding, the shipbuilding is very important in the Republic of Croatia and the State Audit, you're a witness, the State Audit says that the shipbuilding is not purposefully spent and no one is doing anything. And in Danko Končar he knows it here that, is Zulu how, that Hotel Medena is made by workers from Brodotrogira Hotel Meden and do not receive eight years' salary, instead of making ships. I'm the first to subsidize ships. If Germany's sea of auto-industry, we can also shipbuilding, which is a centuries-old shipbuilding. I now invite you to subsidize shipbuilding, but to make ships, not Končar's hotels that he won for kuna. It's very important to me. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38930	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38931	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Here's what my predecessors have done and congratulated Mr. Bull's birthday, and I don't think he's ever had any more HDZs congratulating his birthday than tonight, so here we go. At the end of this working day we are here at HS and I would say that we started this fine day when we talked about the Croatian Institute of Meteorology and DHMZ, and we saw that this is an excellent product that Croatia has, as well as the World Meteorological Organisation, and it will bring its office to Southeast Europe right here to us in Croatia. So we have knowledge, we have visions, we have something called human potential, and it's the most important thing in everything. Without support for the development of society, support is simply something that is needed to develop society in the first place, i.e. to develop it evenly. Of course I come from an area that does not belong to that category of equally developed areas such as the city of Zagreb, it is simply so, for several reasons, not now entering some depth analysis. The state is there to partner units of local and regional self-government, to partner with employers, entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, and this is part of the money that must be returned from those of whom, after all, came to the state budget. I would say that this Covid crisis may not have happened in order to certainly be one of the better years in 2020, perhaps even a reference year when it comes to support, but also an increase in production at all levels. But I won't be much longer on these aids, most of you have commented on it, I'm going to talk a little bit about local and regional self-governments, which also, must be part of the solution to this problem that we've found ourselves in. I believe that units of local self-government must submit part of the responsibility when it comes to keeping jobs, when it comes to creating a basis for job creation, something simply should be a habitat of local communities, and there should be no dilemma as to whether someone is chief or mayor of HDZ, SDP or any other political orientation, we all say. If someone is talking about politics, staying, hiring, encouraging, then it's us, MPs who practically talk about any topic and on any subject every day, that's exactly what we're talking about. Whoever knows my political work will know for sure that we belong to a group of people who talk about it openly and I don't have a fig in my pocket when it comes to that part, whether someone gets angry or doesn't get angry. I'll say one plastic example, I come from Valpo, or Vladimirevac, it's a suburban settlement in the town of Valpova. There's an independent mayor in power and now watch. So the 2020 report that he had to hand over to FINA by February 20th of this year says he gave the entrepreneurs 800 thousand kuna of support. At the same time, more than 15 million kunas are owed to these same entrepreneurs, for their PR services spends 650 thousand kuna, for a tourist community that did not have any tourists this year, or last year, and spends 850 thousand kuna for intellectual services and spends a million and 100 thousand kuna. Well, isn't that hypocritical, isn't that something that shouldn't happen? It's a serious amount of money that can be distributed quite differently. So, if we want a better Croatia, do we want Croatia as our defenders dreamed when they entered the Homeland War, then we all have to bear part of the responsibility, and I would say that this responsibility must be the strongest and most pronounced in these small environments, their fiscal capacities are relatively small, but we are lacking hortic culture, we are lacking things that do not bring jobs, which do not keep a demographic and any other better picture of Croatia, so we realize that encouraging the economy, the economy, protecting people, jobs, the only concern that politics must take as the most serious act that we can ever carry out whether we are in HS, whether we are mayors or mayors or mayors of municipalities, cities and counties. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38932	We have a few replicas. First is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38933	Thank you very much. When we talk about support, I think you agree, that they should, mainly in undeveloped areas or less developed, such as Slavonia, Dalmatia, the tribale should have certain effects. However, there is no impact of support. Any shipbuilding, agriculture, it doesn't matter. We need to see the effects if we invest 15 billion kuna a year, but we don't, we just don't. In addition to what I said earlier, it's unacceptable for me to just, unimportant, decentralised resources, it was about support, it was about being a bank of pigs, and you've now partly explained one case that it shouldn't be. And you can't use that money exclusively from the regional level to decentralize to the party card, literally, here, I'm telling you that certain units of local self-government take out a sample of asphalt, he's seen election cycles, a little thicker when the local, presidential little bit more, but it's not good, it's not enough just to pave but Those measures must have their own effects. [[Intruder: Time.]] So this money that's being given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38934	Thank you very much. Partly, and I said something about it, it's too little time. But I'm a man who always likes to go out in the field, likes to look, likes to talk to people. I would say that, here, I come from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema which I know well, things change. Maybe it's been too long for things to start changing and without social infrastructure there's no staying in, in those places, therefore, I'm not against kindergartens, sports halls, it's all 21st century, and these people deserve the same, conditions and preconditions for a better life. I don't even agree with my colleague Bulj, with this finding that it could be removed from that asphalt so that the chronological look when HDZ was in power or not, I know the great mayors and mayors who aren't HDZ mayors who do a lot of work for their environments, and I think that's where they would come if the figures were compared to maybe even the reverse situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38935	The next replica is the distinguished representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38936	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Ivanovic, I am glad you touched these state support at JLS levels. According to this report, they are assigned and granted, of course, in terms of how many of these individuals can, can not equally invest the town of Valovo or some small lyca municipality or the City of Zagreb. But for these support, it is important that they focus on local needs. Here's a communal and road infrastructure that we've touched, so here's a part of the big part, not a big part, but there's not even any asphalt or lighting or plumbing, and that's what we need at that local level. So someone who lives in the city doesn't need it because he has it, so it's important that these needs be focused, support to be targeted and adapt to the needs of the population and precisely to keep the population and ensure that these basic needs are understood as standards in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38937	We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38938	Thank you, Chairman. He's been injured. In 238, I am knowingly risking my warning, but I would only take a short look at my colleague Ivanovic. I agree, I also know a lot of HDZ chiefs who are truly honest, good people who work hard, torture and fight to make their end better. What I can give you from my example, I'm from the county last year, so directly from Blaženko Boban and his decisions won 150,000 kuna, we're the largest municipality in the area of the Imot area. As regards infrastructure investments and allocations of funds, so in a large part of the county road in the area of my municipality are still at the level of the Middle Ages That's not a good example. [[Intruder: Time]] and there are many good examples of both HDZ and SDP and independents, [[Intruder: Time]] And just as well... [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you for your warning. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38939	You know this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica and I give you a warning. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38940	Thank you. ... I'm about to respond to your replica. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Absolutely, that's what I tried to apostrophe today in my debate. If we have 572 JLS, and their share of support in the entire support system was about 600 million kuna, if I'm not mistaken 690 million kuna, it turns out to be a little more than a million kuna per JLS. I think I can do a lot, a lot more, and then we can still separate that almost 400 million City of Zagreb, I think we're a little late. What my colleague Kujundzic said, okay, was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I agree. One is Croatia, I have no problem with that at all. What is priority must be priority, it was in Zagora, it was in my Slavonia. Therefore, without respecting the priorities, without building this basic infrastructure, we will hardly reach the end of the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38941	Another replica of the distinguished representative, Plasimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38942	Your Honor, I thank you for your exposure. Here's an honest question, given that you feel this one Slavonic ingenuity of this regional part of our beautiful Croatia. On page 40, there's a section of regional support, and in 2017, I'll read it to you, so I'll ask you a question, so we have a 2 billion kuna investment, and in 2019, about 956, it means about a billion kuna investment in regional support. Now I'm interested, which is your opinion, so we see from the very data that we have a reduction in investment in regional support, and I'm asking you for the reason that it's 2019. So it was presented as an excellent year of economic growth in Croatia, so here I am quite interested in how you see this drop in regional investment, and I am asking you for the reason that 2020 will. All the data says it's very bad, and we know why, and then it's going to suffer regional support, so here's your question on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38943	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38944	Thank you very much. That's right, 2020 was bad, catastrophic, the question is what kind of 2021 will be. Here we mentioned little or almost nothing about these little deminimisms of support that are also important, they were mostly in that regional part although they couldn't answer your question exactly now, Mr. Troscott's question about why it's less, it would just be always better if it was a billion to be at least a billion or a hundred or two hundred or if there were two to be more than that. But I believe that without quality support, without the support that makes sense at the end, that may be the greatest value of support when it makes sense, when it outlines space and when the support that has come to a certain area retains at least one resident and opens at least one job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38945	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38946	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Well, we've already said a lot about state aid this year in 2019, but I will return to what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision on making State aid policy guidelines for that period from 2019 to 2021, where it is beautifully established that, for example, it is. in the EU sectoral support in 2016 was only 5.8%, and this was over 50.7% in 2016. So, what I'm saying is, what the guidelines themselves say and what we said in the replica, so the goal is to reduce sectoral, and to increase horizontal support, which makes it the intensity of both governments and all participants themselves, in fact, to create a support policy. If support is influencing, support should therefore in itself promote economic growth. Whether these support is driven by GDP growth, and this is, for example, a question that many experts have asked and explored, and the fact is that in the vast majority of cases, this has not happened which is not good. When we look at that in 2019, more than 15 billion kuna of support was allocated to the Republic of Croatia and this is an increase of 1.7% compared to 2018, we see that this share of support has increased to 3.8% of GDP, which is very much and this is growth compared to previous years. And as I said, the average in the EU and the share of support is about 0.5% in GDP, so the goal would be that some healthy economic growth would also be to reduce these support because this means that we are in the right place and at the right time targeting these funds. The colleagues here have been saying how horizontal this relationship is in these aids in the industry sector, and what that means is also horizontal. I would only see what was not mentioned, and it might be good for the public to hear, let's say it's nice to see that, for example, in Hungary's research and development in the period from 2007 to 2012, she invested 20 times more, so 20 times she increased investment in development and 10 times more in environmental protection. This is something that should guide us when we talk about increasing investment in horizontal support. It's also important to say that, for example, Italy, France and Germany together allocate more than half of the support for development research across the EU. Denmark, for example. ahead of the support for employment and that is almost half of the support for the employment of all EU funds, and behind that is Poland, Poland is behind them. In order to perfect the most, Italy, Germany, France and the former member of the United Kingdom stand out for the environment, for example. Sweden, for the culture of France and the UK, which is no longer and here it is, for example, in relation to other EU countries and member states. When we talk about these local aids here in the City of Zadar, the support is granted for a little entrepreneurship and, let's say, the art crafts that disappear and, in this way, to keep these traditional trades from being channeled and supported in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38947	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38948	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Peric, you talked about sectoral support and trend and tendency to make them as small as possible, so as both of us come from the area where tourism is one of the main economic activities, this is exactly what you can see, and that the share of tourism or the amount of tourism support in 2017 was 15.6. 2018. 11.7 for those for whom the report is submitted to be only 8.9 million kuna. But we have to say that, just like those years in tourism, we recorded the best data, in the record 2017, we had 12% more arrivals than in 2016, and then again in 2018. 9.5% more guests than in 2017, to be again with 5% more arrivals and 21 million guests in Croatia. I believe that next year Those who have come in view of the crisis will have to have greater support in tourism. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38949	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38950	Thank you very much. So, it is very important to monitor all the impact of the support and to say for sure when the report for 2020 will then see how much that impact will unfortunately be in some of the support that we would have wished it hadn't happened in such a way, but I think that it really needs to be monitored and recorded and specifically analyzed exactly the roles and investments and actually follow the way and measures how and how much these support affect the growth of some production or the rise of here's the number of tourists or the overall impact on GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38951	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38952	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Peric. The report is about supporting investment in research and innovation development, and it is about fairly minor amounts for something that I think should be more significant, so in fact, if the state wants to be technologically positioned or maybe it doesn't want to. I want an explanation on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38953	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38954	So I think that everyone's goal is to strengthen this particular segment, which is why I mentioned this very investment and these enormous steps that have been made by the countries in our environment that we must surely look up to. When I say Hungary then I see that it is, it is a significant and enormous increase and I think we should all really stand in that direction. But we also need to think that we have already created great preconditions and I think that we have both the capacity and the knowledge that this can and can be encouraged by our entrepreneurs, in fact, that in this way they form their demands to get some support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38955	The next individual debate, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38956	Respected ones who follow us on television. So here is today's debate we could actually conclude that this support system is not good if we talk about the development system or if we are looking for a market economy and we saw that it is not good in terms of regional development for the reason that we are monitoring that there has been a fall of €1 billion, and we believe that this one regional diversity is one of the richness of the Republic and that in this direction we should increase actual support rather than reduce them. So, as far as research and development itself are concerned, we need to see here that they are falling, and this should be even more achieved and the EU average, means paying the money or investment in research and development in order to get to EU level. What is particularly saddened by the entrepreneurial public is this reduction in investment in small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because it is actually an indication of a ha of an anti-entrepreneurship spirit by ruling people, i.e. that in this structure of investment that has been visible since 2017 and '19. This is also the case in 2020. and in that sense, we would disagree with Mr. Secretary of State for the reasons that the trends that are now continuing and we will be very interested in monitoring what Mr. Plenkovic will decide together with his government after the meeting in Brussels. What is definitely the requirement of entrepreneurs after the survey is that 50% of the funds that we should withdraw from the EU should be invested in our entrepreneurs and that this structure is then clear, that it is not, somewhere 7%, around 10%, but that it is 50%. And what are the demands of entrepreneurs, which is the most important social partner in this sense, is that the Croatian Employers' Association is that 50% of the grants are invested in our businesses, large businesses, in order to generate this growth for the reasons that funding and subsidisation of the interest itself cannot lead to economic growth but must go in the direction of digitisation, must go in the direction of increasing production parks and capacity and that this is no longer so outdated but that in this sense we catch the European average. Also, what entrepreneurs themselves have said, so they want digitisation, they want better processes because these same entrepreneurs compete in a very ruthless EU market and in environments where countries have recognised that they simply have to subsidise with high percentages of the industry that will be their growth generators. In that sense, it should invest in IT and companies such as Infobit, Nanobit, Roman, etc. for the reason that we have talent as a country where we win gold medals by mathematical Olympics and this is exactly the great pool of talent in which we could invest and this could be one of the new growth generators for the Republic of Croatia, and there we also have a comparative advantage over the EU is we much cheaper, we also have a good IT industry, and on the other hand, compared to Asia and our IT-Evies also speak a much better English language. In this sense, it is not clear and what is concerned with the 30.4. points out this deadline, and it is not about the attack, but even the friendly appeal that the Stychi and the campaign will be in the withdrawal of funds for such an important issue, and we are not based on this argument, not on any attacks but on the fact that, for example, we have sent the last day of the EU request to protect us from the moratorium on agricultural land so that more developed EU countries do not come to Croatia and not to take over our land, since we cannot compete because of our economic weaknesses in relation to them. So these are all some indicators that tell us that we simply need to focus and reroute to businesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38957	Time. Replica's esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38958	Thank you very much. A colleague of Troscott, just before in his debate on behalf of the club, you mentioned how much investment in the private sector, in the public sector, as much as it is returning to the essence, but I would say here that the Republic of Croatia is mainly in undeveloped areas, in our entrepreneurship, in agricultural domestic production, we are triangulating investment, but not in this way. Not in a way that support and decentralised funds are invested in pre-election asphaltation as I said, as this year will use it, layer on layer, layer on layer, election cycles we can count. That's not the way to support it. And it's very important that at the same time where projects are needed, e.g. I have very many other villages that don't have water, they look at Cetina without water supply in the house, and nobody cares about it because there aren't enough voters. Your position on pre-election asphalting and of course chickening They're taking a black egg for asphaltation. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38959	Dear Mr. Bull, you're right. So, mathematics is as far as investment is concerned clearly, so on every invested kuna of entrepreneurs they still need to invest two to three kunas of their assets in order to bring it back. However, private sector returns are much larger and we need them now to boost economic growth. In this sense, the refunds would bring, lead to higher revenues, revenues to higher salaries, etc., and this would revive the Croatian economy. As far as the public sector is concerned, no one escapes to invest in it, though. However, what mathematics itself again says financially, so on the 1st kuna, we have 1 kuna of return if we have a very effective asset management. If that is not the case, then we must raise taxes and burdens on our citizens in order to compensate for the deficits. And what we were very constructive about was a proposal where privates and states can be found, and that is to say streamlining the sick so that as many people as possible can work and contribute to Croatia's The economy. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38960	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38961	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here's when we talk about state aid I think it would be good to once again point out what is part of the instruments of state support and what is not. Thus, State aid instruments include subsidies, tax exemptions and debt waivers in the share of equity, financial transfers, guarantees recalled and repossessed guarantees. When it comes to tax exemption, the exemption tax and the relief is stressed that tax reliefs which are of general character are not included but only reliefs which are specific to certain entrepreneurs or groups of entrepreneurs, or for a particular area. So when we talk about 2019 in this year, this report does not include what I would say was most important for our entrepreneurs, and that is the results of three rounds of tax reform by the Government of the Republic of Croatia where entrepreneurs and citizens are relieved of more than 10 billion kuna, and this is the fourth round that provides for further disbursement of 3.75 billion kuna. We know that the tax on profits is reduced from 20% to 18% for large and medium-sized enterprises and from 20 to 12 for small businesses in order to increase the competitiveness of the entire economy. That it raised the threshold to 7.5 million kunas made it possible for as many as 112,000 entrepreneurs, or 93%, to pay a lower tax rate than they did before, by further disbursing them and financially strengthening them. One of the most important support especially now after this and health and economic crisis is certainly support for employment. When we see 2019, we may even have low and funny figures that the support for employment in 2019 was allocated to the amount of 272.9 million kuna even though it was 51% more than in 2017. It was mostly HZZ assigned, and there we have been assigned from the City of Zagreb, the hair salon, the swimming club, etc., but after I said these crises measures to preserve jobs and support the activities of the affected and the coronary virus, but also those recent earthquakes are much larger, much more substantial. Supports were adopted on 20 March 2020 and already started with the implementation on 23 March and so far, more than 9 billion kunas and 13 billion kunas have been paid, respectively, if we see both tax and all possible redundancies. This saved about 100,000 employers and more than 600,000 workers. In November we have an additional 455 million kuna for 40,000 employers and 152,000 workers, and then additionally in December, etc., not to present all data and figures. A significant plus was for entrepreneurs and help by making up for their fixed costs. So rents, utility water charges and those electricity, water, etc. The projection is that another 2 billion kuna will be paid for the period of November – in February. So each worker received 4,000 kuna during the suspension of work with the release of payment of contributions, and the possibility of shorter working hours up to 90% is also allowed for that 3,600 kuna per month per worker. The effectiveness of this measure, discussed by counterpart Peric, shows that HZMO is 31 January 2020 compared to 31 January '21. had only 6,932 persons less to show that there was a significant slow down trend. As I spoke through the replica about the support in tourism, in land transport, I would still mention the need for maritime transport. Additional measures and introduce and provide support since we know that life on the island is very difficult and without this kind of support it will not be possible to move on and to live and do as our development strategies predict, etc., so I am pleased to see that the state line is also And the speedboats had support. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38962	Replica is a respected representative of Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38963	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Branka, you mentioned support for employment, and today we talked about the support of small value. Often these small-value support sounds a little abstract to our citizens and they don't know what kind of support they are. One of the most desperate and well-known support is self-employment support provided by the Employment Office. So 464 million kunas were allocated to them in 2019. They shall be assigned to unemployed persons to cover the costs of work and work of the business operator. So in 2019, in this way, self-employed, are 8723 unemployed persons, and for this measure it is significant that it records continuous growth in both the number of users and the number of support, so at the level of the support granted, it started a few years ago, some 18 000 kn to 35, 55, to make sure that the maximum support amounted to 130 000 kn per newly established entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38964	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38965	Thank you, colleague Porniæ. You have all said about support of a small value for employment as I have said, these are also the most interesting and we who come from the sea, and we are particularly monitoring the tourism sector, here we see that in the tourism sector in 2019, support of small value was allocated to slightly more than 30 million kn, with the Ministry of Tourism allocated 24 million and HTZ 6.4 million kn and these support as well as the name, small values, foster the development of tourism in that year. In the coming years, we expect far more support on the subject of employment than these. So all those available funds will certainly be given to preserve jobs above all, and then less and less for sectoral support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38966	Next replica, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38967	Dear colleagues, so here's what I'm going to do with my employment. Actually, when I was talking about that, for example. Denmark uses the most employment funds of the EU's total resources, then do not think that we have been a little shy in this period in fact determining certain support for employment and that it is precisely the value of EU membership now and that segment that we can both make good use of precisely and with self-employment what the colleague said and also channelling into the right activities that need to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38968	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38969	Thank you very much, colleague Peric. True, I think that those greatest critics of our EU membership must admit that not all of these numerous jobs and our entrepreneurs would have been saved if it hadn't been for EU funds. In fact, the funds for these measures are secured precisely from European funds and slightly smaller from the state budget. And I'd like to hear them say no for this pay phone, thank you, there's no need for the funds, at the cost of our people being at the employment office or on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38970	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Sinisha Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38971	Dear fellow MPs, you have looked at yourself in some way and in this year 2021 and support for the preservation of jobs that could also be called sectoral support, do you think that State intervention as we hear from colleagues from some of the opposition, that it is necessary to reduce state interventions but in such cases, do you think that intervention of the state is important, necessary, and does it actually preserve the economy as a whole?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38972	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38973	Thank you very much, fellow Yankee. I think it is also necessary that it is extremely good that what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing and how it intervenes and saves jobs. All those critics we heard today about the pay phone, they didn't have the courage to say they shouldn't have saved the shipbuilding, but you know maybe in one way or another, no one wants these many workers to condemn them tomorrow because they and their families are left without bread and basic living conditions and working conditions. First of all, it is necessary to save jobs and we must also be aware of how much resources we have at our disposal and how much we can and who we offer. Surely the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as it has gone with these measures, would be willing to intervene in some other activities, but we simply do not have enough resources for all these needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38974	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38975	Thank you very much. A colleague hurt her ankle. 238, saying that the shipbuilding incentives were not given, that the workers would be left without bread, no, the incentives and I were given and we were all to give incentives but it wasn't ships but it was a hotel made by Končar. And the workers did not receive the salary and Croatia invested the state 2 million of taxpayers' money. That's the problem. Yes, shipbuilding, it's our export product, it should be developed but not a hotel by Danko Končar and that workers receive pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38976	This was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica, you get a second warning. An individual debate next, a distinguished representative of Sinisha Yunkac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38977	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Here we are today talking about the State aid report for 2019. Here it was mentioned but I will mention a total of 15.2 billion kn, which is an increase compared to 2008 by 1.7% compared to 2017 is 23.1%, so it is a sensitive increase in state aid compared to the previous one. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6.6 billion kn is allocated support for agriculture, €8.5 billion in industry, i.e. entrepreneurship. Of course, in 2019, as we heard, it was a very specific year and it was a major support in the sector, more specifically in the shipbuilding sector and in any case whether or not it was meant to save shipbuilding. I would only say that when we talk about horizontal aids that amount to approximately 2 billion kn or 13.1%, it means about a billion kn environmental incentives, 322 million kn for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, 272 million kuna for research and development and 233 million kuna for innovation. I agree with my colleagues and colleagues, and I'm back in 2019. is a very specific year and for reasons of major support in the shipbuilding sector we have little less support in environmental protection. Research and innovation development, and here I appeal to the ministry hope that in 2020, 2021. in any case, support for innovation, research and development of small and medium-sized enterprises is growing. What should be noted is that here we can praise the work of HAMAG BICRO means about the issue of a guarantee and those small micro loans up to 50,000 euros. I know from personal experience how much it means to our entrepreneurs, to those especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. When we talk about HBOR, it also has a major impact on lending and there can continue to be an additional step in making HBOR itself even more agile and even more accessible to say so to our entrepreneurs. It is important to highlight the good Investment Encouragement Act, which is about improving the investment environment and the reduction of taxes when our entrepreneur is working, when our entrepreneur invests and invests in that tax charge that our entrepreneurs have very well accepted and I think we should continue to strive and thus still need to in some way encourage entrepreneurs to invest more with tax redundancies. What should be considered in any case in the future, which is Industry 4.0 digital transformation, is the most important today, but in the future it will define the development of the positioning of Croatia, so I think that in any case we should invest as much in Industry 4.0 especially in that incentive that our entrepreneurs think and think and invest in Industry 4.0. When we talk about sectoral support, normally no one likes them, but they are unfortunately as the colleague said the necessity is that no one wants to eliminate thousands of shipbuilding jobs, as I must mention I come from the Varazdin County, North of Croatia where the strong textile and leather industry which unfortunately has very small salaries. And when we talk about sectoral support, unfortunately we cannot particularly boast that the giant Vortex or some other private businesses have received sectoral support, but I don't think we can be sure to say the 13th pig compared to shipbuilding. And when we talk about these sectoral support here, I have to say that the state must treat both the textile and the leather industry as well as the shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38978	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38979	Thank you, Vice President. In today's debate on the Annual State Support Report, it would refer to an event in the industry that is the movement of the cultural and creative industry that attracts tourists and makes a significant 6.3 Croatian GDP that needs an emergency reboot. Many European countries such as Austria, Slovenia, the Netherlands positively assessed the planning of this year's events last month. They also presented a plan for opening events and cultural industries due to the need for months of planning for each event. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation. Most events such as "Ultra Music Festival", "In Music", "Spancirfesta", "Adventa", "Motovun" and "Zagreb Film Festival" were cancelled, numerous concert tours, performances, night clubs were closed and city events were cancelled, which are recognizable cultural tourist symbols of cities and these destinations. The organizers announced their visitors back in 2021. but due to the uncertain situation over the plan for the release of epidemiological measures, hundreds of thousands of reserved travel arrangements are being questioned and any future reservations are being stopped because guests do not know what to expect. Remind us, Croatia is in 2014. She won the Dance Nation of the Year award as the best festival destination in Europe, and only last year has over 100 festivals that attract about a million visitors from around the world been cancelled in Croatia year after year. It is particularly important to note that these same guests in Croatia are on average held for as long as seven days. For all types of manifestations of smaller, medium and larger is the key plan to open the event industry. I point out that the successful organisation of the event needs to be invested for months and even years of planning. The announcement of the opening plan at the last moment of the most vulnerable sector that has not worked for a year will only result in the cancellation of all events in Croatia. Since the event of the industry last year recorded a drop of as much as 95% of any re-entry to the risk of cancellation and planning of evenata must be reduced to a minimum by announcing the plan of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the National Staff because in an uncertain situation where the work plan and the conditions of maintenance of evenata are not defined, the total collapse of events and the creative industry is also threatened. The growing uncertainty regarding the maintenance of evans that are key to the survival of the music, cultural and tourism industry is the reason for the issues, when and under what conditions organisers of cultural, musical, gastro and tourist events can expect the return of evenata in 2021.? The current situation with covida-10 virus pandemic in Croatia is under control with the constant decline of infected and vaccination of the most endangered population, which gives the industry more optimism than in 2020. In order for events to finally be planned and maintained as a prerequisite for government, headquarters and competent ministries must adopt measures to help this industry. Therefore, it is necessary for the competent authorities to issue clear measures, instructions and recommendations to the National Civil Protection Headquarters as soon as possible to allow the opening of industrial events with respect to all epidemiological measures. Support for the preservation of jobs should remain in force until the events can be maintained without restrictions. It is also necessary to establish a 2021 financial fund modelling other EU countries in order to help organiser companies to overcome the future period and consolidate their operations after a year of labour ban.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38980	And final debate on behalf of the Most Club, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38981	Secretary of State, that both colleagues and colleagues support. Yes, large yes, farmers or farmers who deal with agriculture, and not 6 billion kunas, so much to provide annual support and be disastrous. And of course you're asking a question that's being supported. There was a mention of shipbuilding, yes, a great one for shipbuilding. Shipbuilding is a brand of Croatian. Split Square, Trogiar Square of Other Oilies, Rijeka has large numbers. Those shipbuilding squires were developmental, to give in money, but you were giving in money, money in shipbuilding, but they didn't make ships. That's the problem. And then our most qualified people, and so it was for years, our best-quality people were leaving and when they went to other countries, from welders, engineers, designers who had a quality product, Croatia had a quality product. Brodosplit was receiving awards as well as other shears, the Rijeka Oilers were all receiving awards, but the problem here is in this case that we are, for example. It is necessary to restructure Brodotrogir, leave those 600 employees 50% of 1300, these people work and the state has given a total of 2006 to 2018. 2 billion kuna in Brodotrogir, support, 2 billion. For Končar to make himself hotels today from and workers.../incomprehensible/... pay wages, workers who had to work ships they restore to him Medena. These people are out of pay. The shiptrogier is without pay. And people don't have bread, and she gave state subsidies. Here she was drinking backwards, you were drinking backwards, you were subsidizing and people were getting paid, but here people don't work ships and don't get paid. So what's the effect of these measures? Shipbuilding is very important. She's an export product, she's like a building or something. strengthens because everything that is installed in the ship from wood industry to all that is all export, mostly export, most export product and it is a development product. And the triba invest in it. However, this is how we invest and as regards regional investment in regional administration and local self-government, so of course we must invest in Velovo under the Silks that have no water, and a fantastic place to survive, to deal with agriculture, tourism, but there is no water supply. And look at Ceta's river. So Ruda, we've got the Ruda water supply, these locals don't have water supply, and that's where Split is powered. And those locals who are looking at that waterhole have no water supply. So in some parts we have to support people to survive in these areas. We have to look at those eyes. To produce, to subsidies, to railways. We give the railways billions, and they shut down the train, the night train Split-Zagreb. Shut down train, night train Split-Zagreb. For what? Since 1925, that train has been operational. So we need to subsidise it, we want to invest in it, but Croatian railways have much bigger tits, little tits, and a lot of those who would breastfeed it. And they divide it, and to the people there is nothing. And that's a fact. Yes, that temple chain is a problem, the problem is inside the temple chain who will satisfy it all to satisfy Pupovec's SDSS, HNS, BUS, ZUZ, ZOZ who will know how many of these parties that the triba satisfy to raise your hand, e. That's the problem. So the problem is just what, to subsidize primarily to make people survive in these areas. What's important is having an organized transport, yeah, that's all right. Yes, in shipbuilding, but make ships, not people without pay. It's a crime of what Koncar does, it's a crime not to pay people seven months. It's a crime. And hundreds of those people from the 8th month of last year have not been given their children a marenda. It's a disaster here. So that incentives but to be, in the future, to be development incentives, not to be exclusively in this way that has been working so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-11-0.u38982	Okay, we've exhausted the debate with this, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the Secretary of State. Tomorrow we will continue at 9:30 Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on the mutual protection of classified data. Session interrupted at 18.45 hours.
