ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u42840	The next statement of view is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u42841	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. Seven days ago, on June 27, we were abandoned forever by a young man, we lost one young life for 31 years, that man, suffering from cystic fibrosis. Although young, he was one of the oldest patients in Croatia with the diagnosis. What's cystic fibrosis? A severe and systemic, very rare and hereditary disease that currently affects about 150 people in Croatia. Cystic fibrosis affects all organs in the body and if you have been following a little, you have noticed that over the past few days and weeks we have encouraged one initiative to put medicines or a group of cystic fibrosis medicines on the list of HZZOs. On July 6th, then next Tuesday will hold the last session before the autumn break. It is the last hour and last and only hour before autumn that a combination of medicines called Kaftrio, Orkambi and Kalireko are listed on the list of medicines. The last chance is for many of the 150 people in Croatia who suffer from this extremely severe and merciless disease. Think about it, 150 were the oldest was 31 years old. I've talked to, of course, all the parties in this process, that we understand each other always need to listen to everything. I would also like to thank Mr. HZZO Director Dr. Luciana Vukelic had a very correct and reasonable conversation in which he drew attention to several facts. This combination of medicines, according to claims, is not a cure for any supplement, therapy is very expensive and patients have to take it for life. Unfortunately, no matter how much reason I sometimes impose on us to accept numbers, to accept calculations and to multiply persons, costs and years in this case when it comes to human lives, none of us have the right to do so. So, thank you again very much, thank you very much to the MPs and MPs, there are currently 40 of them who signed this initiative to put this combination of cystic fibrosis medicines on the list of HZZOs at the Committee for Medicinal Products next Tuesday. We appeal and pray for it to be so, we pray for all 150 patients on behalf of their families and, of course, on behalf of the entire Croatian public. If we want to do calculations in which our human life is a factor, then pure mathematics tells us that such patients need to stay alive for at least one lung transplant that costs between one and five million kunas. Of course, if we want to continue to throw numbers into the equation in which we have human lives, let us remember that in Croatia, the most common diseases, which are heart, blood vessels, diabetes, hypertension and carcinogenic illnesses, die about 40,000 or 50,000 deceased a year. Most of these diseases are caused by an unhealthy lifestyle, and there is another calculation, and there is some huge amount of money that requires treatment for such persons, and there is money for those who suffer from cystic fibrosis. At the end of the day, here these days are under arrest where we saw that only in one affair on a small project five million kunas were blacked out. Five million kunas mean life for many of the 150 suffering from cystic fibrosis. So, please, we will continue to collect these signatures because we are afraid that at the session of the Committee for Medicinal Products on 6 July this year since the decision, i.e. The positive decisions will be nothing. We won't stop, we won't stop fighting for those 150 even though we're afraid that by the new session of the Committee of Medicinal Products will be much, much less.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u42956	The next statement is on behalf of the Green-left bloc representative club, the respected representative Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u42957	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. On June 25th of this year, a disaster battle fell to the Požega-Slavon County area. The beans were the size of nuts, up to the size of a tennis ball. Since the establishment of the defense system since the Battle of 1971. in Croatia, such a fight has not been reported. Only the area of Jakšić is estimated at 51 million kuna, and for Požega, Pleternica, Kutjevo and Kaptol damages are still estimated, but it is assumed to be around 300 million kuna, which is the order of the total annual damage to the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. The law on the defense system against fighting is still in force. However, the State Hydrometeorological Institute, with the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture for this year, does not have the means to implement an operational defence plan against the fight. On the contrary, 5 million kunas were planned for this year to remove the launch ramps from the missile-destroying field and destroy meteorological solutions for ground-floor generators. At the beginning of this year, therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture abolished defence from fighting in the Republic of Croatia. Applicable Law on the Defence System in Art. 4th century, 2nd, says the decision to suspend the action of the defence against the fight against HS. My colleagues and colleagues, such a decision can be made by us. The agriculture ministry means it bears full responsibility for the damage and other damage to the fight that will take place by the end of this year's season. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 14th law stands, the supervision of the implementation of this law Since the entry into force of this law in 2001 The Ministry of Agriculture has never once carried out surveillance, and back in the 3rd century. is actively involved in the obstruction and degradation of the system. Once again, the Ministry of Agriculture bears full responsibility for the state of the defence system in the Republic of Croatia. It has long been proven that fighting defenses are effective and cost-effective, ecological and harmless activity. Defence from fighting reduces the number of days with a fight and reduces the size of a grain of ice, these are significantly reduced damages in agriculture, forestry, on buildings and on mobile and immovable property. In the environment of the Republic of Croatia, fighting defences are conducted in Italy, Austria, Hungary, BiH and Serbia. In all these countries, the defence against fighting is spreading and modernising, not to mention that EU members from the Netherlands, Greece, Germany are using the defence against the fight, not to speak in the world, only Croatia is giving up defences against the fight. Yesterday, the government, yesterday at the government, the government secured 20 million say for easing and partially removing the consequences of a natural disaster, 20 million with the ministry likely to make up for something else. And don't forget, we don't have a calculation for, for this year. In 2020, the government provided incentives to insurance companies, 70% of the insurance policy is provided by the Croatian state and 30% by the insurance companies themselves. So who's in the interest of not having a defense against a fight? The defense against a fight stands in the law of Art. 2.St. 1 is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and is implemented in the area of defence. The system of these defences was built only by the contribution of farmers from the region of Sava and Drava, and by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence System Act, the State Hydrometeorological Institute received the management and use of real estate and other means to organise and ensure the operation of the entire system. The State hydrometeorological institution is not authorised to destroy part of the funds, equipment and infrastructure, and the other part of the equipment re-purposed according to its purpose. Finally, it is irresponsible of us and here not to worry about the damages that will cause new possible fights and we need to find a new framework that will ensure the smooth work and development of the defence system against fighting.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43041	The next statement of view is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, a respected representative, Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43042	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I congratulate you on Tax Freedom Day, so according to the calculation of the Association of Tax Liberties, the Association of Lipa, the Day of Tax Liberation this year fell on June 28th, this is the day of the year until which citizens work for the state and everything that is financed from the budget and from which they start working for themselves and their family. In most European countries, the day is much earlier than in Croatia, and reducing the expenditure foreign budget and implementing reforms are the only way for taxpayers, those who fill the state budget through their taxes and taxes, to begin to mark the day of tax freedom earlier. Here's to starting with one card. And what I wanted to talk about today is the situation on HRT, given the recent arrests of his director, I will repeat the part of my speech when we talked about the HRT Programme Council and the need to reform and reorganize HRT. HRT has 2,800 employees and a budget of 1.3 billion kuna. What's going on with our national broadcasting? It is that it has long become the party's voice in power. What's the evidence for that? Let's just look at the activities ahead of the recent parliamentary elections or now local elections, where there are increasingly frequent guests of prominent HDZ and government members not only in informative but also in mosaic shows, such as "Good Morning Croatia". It is interesting how the "Croatian Live" show was suspended in time because there were not allegedly too many policies on HRT and they wanted to relax the programme with easier topics. But now, politicians are bringing to such mosaic shows, and that is exclusively from HDZ. Research journalists have made statistics very precise before the parliamentary elections, and so in "Good Morning Croatia" 29 times from March to June before parliamentary elections, they only performed in the central Dnevnik in the form of guest shows with significant minutes, ministers and prime ministers, performed at least 25 times in the Day Theme in the same period 30 times. There is therefore no show on HRT that critically talks about the current political situation, except, depending on guests to guests on Sunday at 2pm and Labyrinth on HTV4. After researching the Agency for Electronic Media, the ratings of the HTV4 programme are less than RTL Cube and Nickelodeon. So a channel that's designed as a news channel, a pandan N1, unambitious, ineligible, unsightly. HRT, which annually from a billion and 300 million kuna, does not only have a department of investigative journalism but also has no research magazine, such as some magazines on other televisions, and that is, of course, on purpose. HRT doesn't reveal anything, journalism's been dug up there, the system's successfully converted into a reporting agency that's just saying this one said this or that. It's not being questioned, it's not analyzing, it's not putting it in context. Kazimir Bacic, as his first move, returned a contract that was annulled by Radman because it was paid a million euros annually, and it was about renting a satellite for HRT5, that international channel that no one is looking at. Kazimir explained in the Committee on Immigrants, which gave HRT about 10 million kuna annually, that they do not have good internet connections in Paraguay and Uruguay. Namely, HRT pays and this Internet system that covers South and North America, however, Kazimir says no, not everyone has a good internet in South America, we have to allow them to watch HRT via satellites, so there we pay one of the most expensive satellites, more expensive than the one through which we broadcast four other channels. The following scandals that were sexual abuse that covered up, the government didn't want to do anything, we had committee sessions on the subject, we called the principal, the director was stuttering and he didn't justify anything that was put on his burden. So, to conclude, we need a HRT as a public service, we need a documentary programme, education, science and culture, all those non-commercial content that such a public service needs to support, but we certainly don't need a big machine like this, we need to streamline and reorganise it, and then the Programme Council would have the right purpose and could influence its proposals and criticism on the HRT programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43105	With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions come down, and now we're going to the club stand. The first statement of view is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, respected representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43106	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today at 494 days since Covid-19 appeared in Croatia. In those 494 days, we unfortunately had nearly 360,000 sick citizens, and 8,200 deceased citizens. In those 494 days, we had hundreds of decisions from bodies that almost no one in Croatia had ever known before, and this is about the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia. These numerous decisions, the Croatian Civil Protection Staff led by Deputy Prime Minister Bozinovic, sought to curb further expansion of the coronary virus, and directly affected the daily lives of our citizens, even more than the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So let's just remember some of these decisions, from the ban on leaving the place of residence, the issuing of passes, from closing of temporary schools, kindergartens, colleges, bans on gathering children on children's playgrounds, the suspension of city transport, the ban on all sports, cultural and social events, the limitation of the number of persons in the open area, the exact number of people in the indoor area, the mandatory social distance, the mandatory wearing of masks in the closed area and a number of others. Some of these decisions have indeed managed to prevent the further expansion of Covid-19, but there have also been so many contradictory decisions and statements by the leaders of the headquarters who have refuted themselves, so let us remember these decisions. From the fact that masks do not help to protect from coronaryvirus to that that masks are mandatory in all closed spaces, from all children in primary and secondary schools not being allowed to interfere within different classrooms to the fact that these same children in that same school come on the same bus, from all those who violate the measure of self-insulation being called bioterrorists to the fact that they are the same while within the self-insulation measures they can freely vote if they have a mask on their faces. Let us also remember the decision on the covid directors, also remember that there were and there are penalties for those who do not adhere to all the prescribed measures. And then we come up to 492 days after Covid appeared in Croatia, it is a basketball game in Split where Croatia played against Brazil, where there were about 2,000 visitors and when you look at this picture almost all visitors in this picture have a mask on their faces and stick to the decision of the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia. Among those visitors was the state summit, including Chief of Civil Protection Davor Bozinovic, the same chief of staff who made the tens, perhaps hundreds of measures and decisions on the necessary epidemiological measures, and among them there are art. 2. which has been adopted in one of these measures since 18 June, which reads: The strict physical distance measure requires the avoidance of close personal contact within a distance of at least 2 metres in a closed space and a metre and a half in an open space. If it is not possible to maintain a physical distance of at least 2 metres in a closed space and at least a metre and a half in an open space it is mandatory to use maskes for face or medical masks. Signed by Chief of Staff Davor Bozinovic. That same chief of staff is sitting with his closest associates without a mask on their faces just 20 centimeters away in a closed area. Do you, dear Chief of Staff, really think that the Croats have no common sense? Do you think our citizens are so under-opted? You can't make decisions without holding yourself together. And at the very least, we should apologize to Croatian citizens because the first ones do not stick to the decisions you sign and make yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43203	Following is the SDP's Club of Representatives' position, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43204	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, I am going to talk about a group of diseases called “a eating disorder. ” It is categorized in 3 primary groups, anorexia of nervousness, bulimia of nervousness and other non-specific eating disorders. Food disturbances in the Republic of Croatia over 85% were female and 15% male. Data on the number of patients vary from 40 to 45,000, including 100,000 patients. Anorexia affects mostly younger adolescents, but also younger children, and bulimia older age, but there are mixed forms and stages of disease occurrence. The treatment of eating disorders is carried out in several health institutions, the assistance is dislocated and for younger people is mainly in the Vinegrad Hospital and Jankomir, and for adults on Rebr, and part of the assistance is provided at the Psychiatric Hospital on Rab. Treatment is partial without the necessary structured and long-term free continuation in treatment although eating disorders qualify as a severe chronic psychosomatic disease. Despite the inclusion of different institutions and experts in this problem, there are not enough of them to specialize in the treatment of these disorders, there are no official statistics and precise epidemiological data, enough public health events other than some forms of education and lectures through other associations, the necessary literature in this area, which is seen in a more advanced world as a difficult health social problem affecting the entire family. Treatment of eating disorders should be at reference centres with consular access to sufficiently supervised doctors and other healthcare professionals for this clinical entity, which is a practice in the world. Treatment of eating disorders is both demanding and challenging, and involves a multidisciplinary approach by different experts. First of all, psychiatric treatment is needed, as well as supervision of internalists, nutritionists and various other experts. The treatment process is usually long-term, depending on the condition of the patient and the duration of the disease, and the percentage of complete healing is low. One of the oldest “Hope” associations that has been helping the sick since 2002. And recently they came to me for help. The association has been without space and money for years to work as a complement to insufficient institutional treatment. Without enough literature in Croatian they are also with a shut down website. All they have available are phones that are hard to maintain and Facebook profile “Hope Zagreb Association”. They meet in cafes in the Flower Square, doing the first triage, assist advisoryly and free copies of basic literature in Croatian, which they wrote alone with a group of doctors who have been helping the association for years. For other activities that you would like to do such as education, lectures, stronger information and sensitization of the public, preventive action, individual and group work with doctors who would be free of charge for the sick and the families, there is no space and financial resources. More than 9,400 patients and their families have passed through the association today, among those who know unnecessarily died due to the untreated 1,115, and none recovered. 9 years old. in the Flower Market, they protest daily in the Gandivian way by sending a message to Urbi et Orbi on the carelessness of our authorities and all the structures of society according to a large number of children, girls, girls and women who are literally discriminated against in their right to quality treatment. 9 years old. they have not received any funds for their volunteer and human work. Every week in the Republic of Croatia due to non-treatment of eating disorders, one person dies because she did not have the necessary help. In anticipation of the necessary reforms of health care not to put our patients in another plan, I call on the Ministry of Health, the City of Zagreb and donors to help the sick, their families and all associations equally with the necessary space and financial resources to work so that this mentioned association “Hope” can apply to eu projects. In addition, treatment teams and a reference centre such as those in Italy, Austria and Switzerland should be formed in order not to wander from clinic to clinic. Teams must include psychologists, detectives, interns, gastroenterologists, endocrinologists, gynecologists, psychiatrists, pediatricians, and family doctors. Many patients require long-term hospitalisation, even for several months that are not possible under our conditions, so a specialised institution is needed to treat those who suffer from eating disorders. The existing organisation of assistance in the Republic of Croatia is not enough. National strategies, actions and country-level plans related to eating disorders do not exist. Public and media sensitisation of this problem is needed. Let's all get involved together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43295	The next statement of view is the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Nikola Mažar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43296	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. The 9th session of the National Council for the Introduction of the euro, namely the 4th Strategic Objective of the Republic of Croatia and Eurozon, was held at a time when the Republic of Croatia achieves its strategic objectives, including the integration of territories by building the Peljega Bridge, strengthening territorial security by entering Schengen and obtaining combat aircraft yesterday. The key moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Eurozone took place on 10 July 2020. when the Republic of Croatia met 19 measures of the action plan that were a prerequisite for the European Central Bank to include the Croatian kuna in the exchange rate mechanism 2. A central parity has been established for participation in the European Course Mechanism 2 and is equal to €7.53.45 per euro and corresponds to the market rate at the time of decision-making. However, what is important for citizens to commit Croatia to further implementing additional reform measures and to further implementing sound economic policies when the Republic of Croatia enters the Course Mechanism 2. Also in December last year, the government also adopted a strategic document calling the Croatian Kuna's National Replacement Plan a euro. In particular, as regards reform measures, more than 60 measures by the Republic of Croatia will be implemented by the time the euro is used as currency in the Republic of Croatia. Most of these measures concern four areas, which is preventing money laundering, the business environment, public sector governance and judicial reform. It is important to stress that most of these measures are planned to be implemented by the first quarter of 2022 at the latest. By the end of March 2022, respectively. In addition to further implementation of reforms that will certainly strengthen overall life in the Republic of Croatia, what is crucial to say is that Croatia will achieve significant and lasting benefits from the introduction of the euro. The specificities of the Croatian economy contribute to the introduction of the euro in Croatia, but Croatia is also the smallest EU member state to still use its currency. Croatia is also highly commercially connected to the Eurozone, if we look at the largest part of the trade exchange of Croatia has to do with Germany, Austria, Italy, so the countries located in the Eurozone and which use the euro as their currency. And also in the Croatian banking system are dominated by banks owned by Eurozone institutions. The benefits of introducing the euro relate above all to reducing the risk of macroeconomic and financial stability, more favourable financing conditions and lower transaction costs. These benefits should enable stronger economic growth, increase economic efficiency and make Croatia more attractive to investment. The greatest benefit of the introduction of the euro is the removal of the currency risk to which the population, businesses and states are particularly exposed. We must be aware that the total debt in foreign currency, including the debt plus the currency clause, exceeds 500 billion kuna and that more than 90% of the amount is related to the euro. Under such conditions, a strong depreciation of the kuna against the euro would increase the debt and debt burden for domestic debtors. After the introduction of the euro, the sectors will reach their revenues in the euro, hence the currency in which the majority of their liabilities is tied and will therefore no longer be exposed to the risk of depreciation of the domestic currency and the resulting increase of the debt pay-out burden. Of course, additional benefits from the introduction of the euro will come from lower interest rates, but also lower transaction and exchange costs that amount to over one billion kuna annually, which instead of banks and exchange rates, will remain for the economy, entrepreneurs and the population as a compensation for the transaction. The introduction of the euro will have a positive impact on domestic and foreign investments, more favourable borrowing conditions will increase the competitiveness of the economy and thus create an additional space for investment and employment. At the same time, removing the currency risk will reduce the overall risk to which international investors are exposed, increasing the attractiveness of Croatia as destinations for foreign direct investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43401	The latest statement of view on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43402	Good afternoon, everyone. So, I would like to touch on this little blackmail from Prime Minister Plenkovic towards entrepreneurs where he binds the payment of support to whether entrepreneurs have been vaccinated or not. It is a complete defeat of the government's epidemic policy, it is a complete defeat of the government's communication policy where people should have been convinced that it is actually a less risk for them to be vaccinated than therefore possible to risk, get sick, get Covid, but apparently those citizens were unable to convince, have somewhere more than 300 thousand vaccines excess and would now solve this problem through the back of entrepreneurs and through blackmail. It won't work, we'll get up hard here in both HS and the public. I'm asking another question. Who's responsible for the double criteria? Who's responsible for double standards? Who's responsible because Willie of the superhero became someone the public doesn't trust anymore? Who is this famous headquarters that shouldn't have been asked. I was one of the few who questioned the decisions of the Staff, who led to the fact that no one in Croatia trusted the Staff anymore? We have a situation that's for example. for Serbia and for Serbian citizens, as I welcome, allowed without any conditions of entry into Croatia, and for BiH citizens, although European, although EU BiH has put them on the green list, we still have a PCR test if it is, or vaccinations, if it is about entering for several days, and without conditions, any conditions at 12 hours. Why such discrimination against BiH citizens, if you want Croatian citizens? I didn't hear these three mummies here mean that they chose Croatian citizens in BiH in the 11th constituency that they said that. Here, I'm talking to a colleague here, he says, everyone can go to Croatia without any tests, anything, those who go to the wedding should have a PCR test or be vaccinated. Why discrimination against Croatian citizens? So, the full double criteria, the complete failure of the Staff, and then they go now to blackmail something, go blackmail Croatian entrepreneurs. I ask Plenkovic, will he take taxes and taxes from these unvaccinated? He'll answer, will he be worth it for the state budget to impose those taxes on you too? And support would condition whether they were vaccinated or unvaccinated, they wouldn't refuse to take a tax, they certainly won't. So that's something we can't agree to, I've asked Davor Bozinovic's question about BiH and these special conditions for BiH, different conditions for Serbia and some other countries on the green list, and I'm looking for an answer to that question, and here, we will continue to try to be in the Croatian public the voice of reason, the voice of all free people, and this epidemic and any other epidemic can be the reason for obtaining basic human rights and freedom. So, the Bridge as a Freedom Party will not agree to this and again we will be the voice of free people, the voice of Croatian entrepreneurs, the voice of craftsmen and here in HS and the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43403	Here's what we've exhausted all the debates, we're done. We'll continue the session on Wednesday 7 July at 9.30 p.m. Have a nice weekend, everybody. MEETING Interrupted at 12:31 p.m. Following is the presentation of the position of the respected representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43461	Ladies and gentlemen. A state organisation as well as any other organisation has its own rules of conduct in which there are duties, rights and obligations. The obligation of the judiciary, for example, It is in one country that we can provide our work with a peaceful dream for our citizens. For this peaceful dream and peaceful life, citizens pay for the judiciary that serves powerful corrupt structures in Croatia, and knowingly harms Croatian citizens. No wonder the general nickname for the judiciary is Croatian perjury because selective justice and the protection of crime by the judiciary is generally known both in Croatia and international organisations and investors. The arrests in Zagreb are a crown example of law abuse and illegal rule of non-transparent centres of power. The judicial authorities have arrested Ana Stavinić Rukavina with the accusation that she has set up a contest for the selection of the director of Srebrnjak Hospital in Zagreb. I ask the question, who set up the contest for the election of HRT chief director Kazimir Bačić, who was also arrested in this action because his qualifications certainly did not choose him? So someone manipulated in this case is Andrej Plenkovic. Will USKOK now arrest Andrej Plenkovic for setting up competitions for Kazimir Bačić? The fact that the advent homes were awarded without competition, contrary to the elementary healthy logic, was written even in a corrupt Croatian media space. So we know that, for example, one company paid 36,000 kuna for 10 homes to the city, and only one house was rented further for 100,000 kuna. In this action, one of the owners of the company who had these criminal contracts was arrested, but there were three others who had identical contracts. One of them is the son of Zagreb's powerful man from the communist time of Duško Ljuština. The question is, why was one arrested, and the others who did the same things weren't arrested? Our judiciary does not apply the rule of law, but the rule of roulette. USKOK's public statement says Bandic received a bribe in 2020. in the normal world at the time of receiving bribes, the rule of law acts immediately, but ladies and gentlemen Bandic has not functioned in corruption 2020 for 20 years, but it is also clear that such a range of corruption for such a long period cannot be carried out by one person or group, but it is a matter of saying, a wider social consensus from all governments during that period to the management structures, in the police, in the DORH and in the judiciary. These demagogue manipulatory announcements about godless years of follow-up to prove it, they're faceless lies. In today's digital time, money flow is very easy to track, so stories about the complexity of proving corruption and the need to listen to phones and install bugs are stories for preschool children. In short, the judicial bodies in agreement with politics and the media function in a way that you have a doorman outside a department store who calmly watches thieves constantly enter and steal goods and then every few months captures the least offender and says you see how I protect the property of this department store. Because by arresting Bandic's driver, corrupt media are trying to top the fight against corruption, and what about Bandic's leaders, directors of Holding? Does anyone remember any more chairs in Lissinsko than EUR 1,000 delivered by the entrepreneur Šelendić, friend Stipe Mesic and Milan Bandic? What about the HDZ coalition partner? Filipovic's HDZ says he's surprised. He is probably the only citizen of the City of Zagreb who is surprised by corruption in Zagreb, otherwise he is the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Forests for which there are countless indications that the competitions are conducted in the same way as the City of Zagreb. It's very simple. Corruption in order to be able to function must suspend the regular functioning of the system because in the regular functioning of an individual or entrepreneur there is no need to bribe someone when the law gives them the right to exercise. That means suspension of the law is a prerequisite for corruption, and that suspension is tolerated by someone, in this case by the judiciary. I could now list two hours of cases in which the judiciary tolerates corruption. What is the logic of determining an investigative prison for one driver who doesn't have any power anyway, and the participants of the Agrokor affair, from Todorovic, his son to other participants and the affair are not in the investigative prison. A driver can only be a tiny wheel and can not be any creator of corruption. In Croatia, the repression of corruption will begin when justice is brought to justice by those who block the work of the judiciary, which is a couple of excellence crimes. In particular, Mladen Bajic, Dinko Cvitan, Zlata Hrvoj-Šipek, Ivo Josipovic, Andrej Plenkovic, Vladimir Seks and others must be responsible for the crimes of concealing corruption and preventing the work of the judiciary. But the time will come to account and Croatian citizens will fight for equal status with other European peoples and will create a fair and rich Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43498	Following is the position of the HSS and RF Representatives Club, representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u43499	Good afternoon, everyone. Here is a colleague and colleagues, after "The Oilies", after "Brodotrogira", who came in line and "Brodosplit". Brodosplit has problems again. Today, we received an answer from the Brodosplit administration that all employees of the Brodosplit Group were paid for yesterday and that the salaries come within the legal time limit, that there are no problems with Brodosplit. What, though, is the problem with Brodosplit? In Brodoplit, the problems are journalists, journalists who write about problems in Brodosplit, the administration says are working against them. They assure the Brodosplit administration that their workers are not upset and that the problems of the workers stem only from what ordered texts say, not indicating exactly who ordered these texts, which is precisely what they order, which is incorrectly written, etc. If someone says and feels uncertain then it's probably just for media writing. But what the media is about and what's going on in Brodosplit is a well-known scenario as if we're looking at the day of the swings, a day that repeats the same thing over and over again, and in mid-June, we found out that five of Brodosplit's companies are going into bankruptcy by June 18th if something doesn't change by then and if they don't find the funds to pay their wages. These companies, which means the five employ a total of 868 workers who were being fired. The entire Brodosplit system, again a deja-vu that Debeljak has divided into 48 companies employs 2,000 workers, such a division of companies on a series of smaller companies that are unrelated, but constantly coming before bankruptcy is an old well-tested formula we saw recently in Brodotrogir. Such a fragmentation of a large company on a number of smaller businesses means a certainly difficult fight for workers and a struggle for workers' rights, but at the same time also means the owner's strategy to cloud the problem. As a rule, long-term blockades end with bankruptcy and shut down a roof company as is the case right here in Brodotrogir, and something similar only to a much smaller company we followed in Ulanik. The stringing of consecutive blockades, the launch of bankruptcy in various smaller companies has a function of preparing the public and workers to close the shipyard, so they only had in Ulnik a scenario, first went engineers, then no longer had anyone to work ships then was fully justified and the blockade or bankruptcy and the shutting down of the Oilies. If all workers worked in the same company and the company's blockade was for all workers at the same time, the public, workers and policy options that side by side of workers and shipbuilding would react immediately. This is how the fight is weakened, and the public is dead. We had a protest here of Orjava workers, they're still all in the same company, they came over 100 to Mark's Square, that was symbolically powerful. If we have a few smaller companies that go into bankruptcy simultaneously or separately and threaten to bankrupt them, the workers are fragmented, they cannot fight in the same way. Therefore, the Workers' Front invites all Brodosplit workers to actively pursue a labour fight as soon as possible until it is too late and actively address the owner of Tomislav Debeljak, the Government as well as local authorities with their demands to include business transparency, participation in problem-solving, insight into problem-solving scenarios. We have had a case in all of these examples that workers do not know what is going on, it is not transparent how these bankruptcy proceedings are conducted and how they come out of bankruptcy proceedings. The administrations persistently respond that everything under control does not want to talk to the workers, however angry are not the media and political parties and workers who warn about what is happening there and eventually we get to the very end. Sometimes Minister Horvat who says next week will intervene, too, and we'll know more. So what's important is that the organization should happen past the unions that actually, in many scenarios, actually side by side of the owner and prepare to close the shipyard, such an active battle must be fought now so that it doesn't turn into a final fight for severances while jobs are already shut down because there are no quality ship-building personnel, and the list of orders is empty. Therefore, solidarity with the workers of Brodosplit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54950	Here, good morning, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you, we move on with our work. This morning according to article. 226 century 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose an addition to the 7th session agenda with 9 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. The 227 Rules of Procedure set out firstly to decide on a proposal for individual laws to be adopted by means of an urgent procedure. Does any of the MPs have any objection to the urgent procedure proposed in the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed supplement, which is the point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act with the final proposal for a law, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 155? If there are no objections, I believe that the proposal for an emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205 Rules of Procedure. How appropriate. Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of Written Objections at the remaining points of the draft updated agenda were not included, i.e. all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 7th session. Before we move on to today's debate, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposed on the basis of Article. 247 HS Rules of Procedure to conduct a united debate on the following two points. The first is: - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 151 and - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Alternative Investment Funds Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 152; - Are you in agreement with this proposal? Yes, it is. If there are no objections to those points, we will conduct a united debate. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply when discussing these items of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54951	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. As it is said, we have a united debate on two amendments and amendments to the law. Of course, with a view to harmonising, harmonising, transposing and implementing directives. First of all, the first of the two laws, so the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, means here today we will look back at these two laws and something about the situation of the capital market, as regards the possibility of the market itself, the achievement of certain activities and what we, on top of these changes and transpositions, want to achieve further changes and the reduction of regulatory requirements. That, otherwise, the Law provides for conditions for the establishment and operation of open investment companies with a public offering, etc. UCITS funds or in English Undertuckings for Collective Investment Transfer Securities or entities for joint investments in transferable securities. As a rule, this is an open investment fund with a public offering. Otherwise, I am aware always and here in the debate itself, especially of the distinguished representative Oreshkovic's own observations that this matter is not understood, specifically by her side, I will try to give as much plastic labs as little time as I have for both laws, however, this such matter is complex and professional, so that we can neither exaggerate nor lead to absurdity. Therefore, this UCITS Fund itself is an open-end investment fund with a public offering established by a management company, so there are always 2 different entities that respect the risk-sharing principles, investing in the joint assets of investors collected by public offerings in liquid financial assets in accordance with the provisions of the law itself. So other than that classic stock trading, securities, which are more or less citizens and are all familiar, this is about investing in funds that trade these same securities or other different depending on the diversification that actually reduces the risk itself. So instead of a citizen or investor investing in one securities from one issuer he enters a fund that has more. Now here we will see in the law whether we can even go to sector-specific different investment funds and this represents these less risky funds because they disperse the risk on several different securities issuers. That is why this is extremely important for any capital market, and especially for us in Croatia where we want to disburse these changes and encourage it. So only trading then is about trading the share of these funds, it actually includes all services or activities that are in any way related to the distribution of UCITS funds themselves or funds to investors. Therefore, this includes only trading and activities related to advertising of information and offering of shares in UCITS funds. You will also see that these changes and additions, especially when we come to alternative investment funds, define that part of marketing, pre-marketing and advertising itself. I'll just introductoryly say just advertising pre-marketing is important for popularising, for transferring information, but on the other hand we always have to watch out for safety, for transparency, for what that advertising means exactly. It's one scale in which, of course, we want to popularize, but not that there's some false advertising going on. As for the market itself in Croatia, I will only briefly, so 94 are currently such funds that have assets of little less than 20 billion kuna, and total manages 11 companies. So, with this applicable law and all sublaws, we are and we are further in full compliance with the acquis, and in fact this has made it possible to liberalise business and cross-border co-operation so far. This is exactly one of the names of the Directives itself as regards which we are transposing, that is a directive relating to cross-border distribution of entities for joint investment that enables the implementation of a regulation on facilitating cross-border distribution of entities for joint investments. So what's really the point here today is that we have before us those basic amendments to that directive in the regulation and, consequently, what will be the application of the law itself or the bill itself is to remove identified regulatory barriers to the functioning of the EU single market for these UCITS funds. So, translated very briefly, therefore, a single market must not happen to have rules that are either more liberal or more regulatory in terms of greater regulatory requirements and thus introduce inequality on the single European market. With these changes and additions you will see later it is actually harmonised, it is placed under the same denominator that the same rules are a game for all, especially with regard to the transparency and safety of investors, but also the incentives for the investment itself. So, one equal and transparent condition. In order to achieve this, it is now going towards removing regulatory barriers to cross-border trade and equating exactly what I have said, notification procedures and harmonize the various scratches that have been applied so far. Therefore, removing these barriers will facilitate cross-border distribution of the funds themselves and this set out transparency and procedures and rules themselves. In fact, this creates preconditions for the growth of cross-border distribution itself, or trade between Member States, and reduces this market fragmentation and only increases competition. In particular, this proposal introduces an obligation to set up a system that will enable the operation of trading tasks and make it available to small investors in each country which the fund management company intends to trade. For example. As regards the processing of requests, providing certain information, facilitating the resolution of complaints, making available all information and documents, it means that our management companies will be able to obtain information equally under the same conditions in another Member State. These societies themselves become contact points for communication with the competent authority. Furthermore, some of the most important newspapers that the bill provides are to sign the rules for withdrawing the notice of trading of the shares of the UCITS fund in the host Member State in relation to one or more of the funds themselves, as well as the rules of treatment relating to the notification and documentation in the event of the establishment of a branch in another country, so that is the part of the transparency and information that these wish to achieve in relation to all Member States. Therefore, as regards withdrawal, the intention of withdrawing trading notices for one or more funds trading in the host Member States, and for the purpose of protecting the investor's interest, it is necessary to make a general offer for the purchase of the share without the payment of the exit fee that must last for a minimum period of 30 days and must be made public on the available media. Further arrangements shall also be made for the notification of the intended change in the information contained in the notices and documents to be provided, so that is the transparency of the information. What is important is that this law introduces, in addition to our legislative framework, the concept of the UCITS ETF and the Exchange Traditional Fund, primarily in order to comply with the guidelines of the European Securities and Markets Supervisory Authority, or ESMA on Investment Funds, whose shares are traded on the stock market. As regards the ETF itself, it is a special type of open-end investment fund with a public offering of which at least one share class is traded during the day on a regulated market and a multilateral trading platform. Most of all, translated into what kind of fund it is, it's a fund when someone wants to invest in a particular branch, whether it's a telecommunications, renewable energy source, anything they're not going to invest in a single company, but in that particular fund that was just founded for that part of the branch. And then actually, according to the stock indices that binds itself to that fund in particular for the development of a branch. So one of the investors of institutional or qualified, larger, but also private, smaller ones wants to type into a particular sector, regardless of which one of the economies, then he does not have to go to buy 10 shares of all the companies involved, but through this fund he achieves his intention and monitors the results himself, or hopes for certain incomes or contributions. As regards this reduction of regulation, changes are introduced in relation to the mandatory content of the fund's very prospectus di, it is proposed to allocate the risk profile of the fund from the investment elements and the management company's obligations to describe in detail in the case of use of other liquidity management tools other than suspension and issuance and purchase of shares, specific tools and circumstances. Furthermore, what would conclude with this part, certainly this one, like to specify, that actually these changes will be along with this is actually expected to be, we expect that there will be consistency of the process... bodies and the harmonisation and modernisation of rules on changes in documentation, information on promotional content and marketing itself, in particular regarding cross-border distribution and termination of cross-border distribution, respectively... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Like I said before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all of this should result in significant redundancies and a reduction in the operating costs of the management company, and in fact we will meet this, not only the required obligation to bring our legislation into line, but also allow for the better functioning of the funds themselves in the Republic of Croatia. Here, that's about this first part, then I'd get to the second point as soon as possible, and it's about alternative changes and additions to the law with alternative investment funds. For the time being, the fund, the EIF, a short-term investment fund established by an alternative investment fund management company with a purpose and the purpose of raising funds to public or private investors, and the investment of those funds in line with a pre-defined strategy and the aim of investing an alternative investment fund, and the only benefit is.../incomprehensible/... of this alternative investment fund, what the difference between these previous open funds is that they have the possibility of investing in a wider range of assets although they are not intended for all investors, so they can be both open and closed. One, a wider possibility of investment itself, currently has 34 such funds in Croatia run by 19 companies. The open alternative investment funds themselves do not have legal personality, they are closed, they can be established, so far they could be like a limited liability company and a limited liability company, you will later see that it is also being complemented. Moreover, the shares of a closed alternative investment fund established in the form of a limited liability company can only be offered by a private offer, so they are not like the previous UNITS funds opened to the general public. So everything in line with further harmonisation of our regulatory framework with the acquis, but also with the aim of both liberalisation and promotion of the capital market. The objectives of this Directive and the regulation are to remove identified regulatory barriers to the functioning of the single EU market, which are particularly relevant now to alternative investment funds. Therefore, it was recognised that it was necessary to ensure equal and transparent conditions for the purpose of facilitating the very above-mentioned cross-border distribution of alternative investment funds managed by companies while ensuring high investor protection. So, more or less the same reasons, same as for the previous part, given that they are higher on the same directives, which is why we united the debate, to get it, is encouraged, but with the aim of protecting equal rules for all. Thus, by removing these barriers, this cross-border distribution will be facilitated and the level of transparency of rules and procedures will be increased. In order to respond even better to these differences, this bill provides for a harmonised definition of pre-marketing activities and the conditions under which they are implemented, that is, in the introduction of what I have mentioned, which is the meaning of the activities themselves. It shall also be prescribed to carry out the notification procedure of the competent authority for the purposes of... which we have also mentioned in order to avoid circumventing the rules on cross-border trade itself and notifying the competent authority of the host Member State of society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the rules for withdrawing the notice of trading of the shares of alternative investment funds in the host Member State are prescribed in relation to one or more of them, so for the purpose of protection and the interest of investors, as a rule, managers are obliged to make a general offer for the purchase of shares, so all of what we have now had a chance for UCITS funds, also applies to these EIFs within 30 days, without an exit fee, etc. It will also enable the carrying out of tasks in relation to the trading of alternative investment funds that can be offered to small investors of a certain establishment of a system which I also mentioned. Now I'm trying to step in with time, so I'm just going to stick to these most important changes. Also, they are prescribed in accordance with and we are transferring the article. 61 directives which prescribe... the regulatory capital of the management company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to stress in general about alternative investment funds that they represent one good source of company financing although not intended for all investors, but certainly in that part and after the consultation by HANFA, which was from 24 February to 12 April, some needs for further liberalisation and facilitating and reducing regulatory requirements and obligations to encourage this market. Wherever possible, it is actually possible to carry out regulatory discharge without jeopardising the investor protection objectives themselves. Therefore, wherever obstacles are possible and the administrative burdens themselves for the business of companies are removed in order to open up additional investment space in alternative investment funds. So some of the other most important changes in the legal personality mentioned above are introduced in those with a private offer and a command society with d.o.o. and d.d. any of the most appropriate partnership forms in other Member States, hence the same possibility of a better way to participate in investments and to distribute profits. So far, it was just a form of d.o.o. and d.d. or according to our ZTD, a command company is also foreseen by the ZTD, so nothing is new except that we have made that part possible. As regards the possibility of talking about financing itself, especially in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises or SMEs, the alternative investment funds have now been given the possibility and lending, which has already been done by individual members in such a way that especially when we are talking about financing the economy in the midst of this crisis itself. As regards these reductions in regulatory requirements of liberalisation, what I would like to say only before the end is mentioned by the more important things where the milder measures are prescribed compared to what is currently prescribed, in fact, with regard to the law or criteria for the classification of the size of the companies themselves, so we have little, medium and large depending on the total assets and value of the fund itself, so that those thresholds move, as regards the upper threshold to the small one from 75 to 350 million kuna. This would, of course, be given to me in the case of the use of the financial leverage, if the financial leverage is not used then one billion and 400 million kuna, of course it depends on the very risk of whether when we talk about the financial leverage of these thresholds whether they are responsible for their investments. By doing so we will get nine new small ones this time... funds which of course leads behind them are absolutely having a smaller set of obligations, greater flexibility in business compared to other categories, so that there is less regulatory burden and thus not only will these existing ones have a easier way of doing business but they are actually fostering a greater possibility or creating a new one. Given these thresholds, we're going to have two new middle societies of these existing 34 that I said. Therefore, as regards a number of other commitments that are also liberalised or reduced as regards the acquisition of a qualifying management share, as well as what is important to propose and allow investment companies to be depositaries of alternative investment funds. So far, they have been a credit institution investment company, which is a certain category of institution, and we are now extending it. Some parts of the board members themselves and everything is more or less like this before the end, I see that the time has expired, except for what would be crucial to say that, apart from the transposition itself, we have released a lot of these administrative things in order to encourage that capital market, especially as regards the investment funds themselves. Here's a thank you for your attention. I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54952	We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of the Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54953	Your Honor, Secretary of State. My question will be about the capital market but not so much about today's law, so last week a conference of HANFA was held in Opatija and the dust actually raised the fact that the traffic of crypts with traffic on the Zagreb Stock Exchange was compared, where there is already a level of traffic and cryptoimovines with, for example, stocks and is believed to be 2022. is when the cryptcurrency will even exceed the traffic of the shares themselves on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Do you already prepare the Act on Cryptocurrency and expect any eu directives on this matter and whether we have enough income laws, I think that capital and secondary income for mining is enough for legal regulation trading in Croatia now?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54954	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54955	I appreciate the question. The issue is absolutely in place with regard to the capital market and the new liquids that are going on, we already have something envisaged by the legislation itself, of course, by the CNB, above all, as regulators, but we have just had a number of certain ones here and will now come up in the next debates one on how best to secure and protect only the capital market, but we expect that this topic is primarily regulated on the EU side where it is not yet strictly defined. As regards the tax treatment itself, contributions or revenues from trading to crypts are currently treated as contributions from capital rather than the Income Act. As far as the work itself is concerned, it does not fall within the income tax sphere, so it is the same as past study work where to invest your funds. So that when you work for yourself that nobody asks how much time you spent deciding where you're going to invest in which shares...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54956	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54957	Your Honor, Secretary of State. In order to understand this law a little bit better, or what this law will pass, it would be interesting to find out which assets are managed by other EU countries in relation to assets in investment funds managed by the Republic of Croatia, so that it should be concluded that in the future it will be in the Croatian investment fund market. And to recall the past there somewhere in 2008 when the Capital Market Act was passed I listened to very similar discussions at the time about how the Croatian capital market would improve and then the law practically destroyed the Croatian capital market because it did not understand at all how our market arose compared to how it came into the rest of Europe. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54958	I appreciate the question. Yes, many of our citizens were burned right in those very beginnings not to talk about so-called. the bags and the things that followed, and there was a lot of loss because of the disorder. We now have a great opportunity to jump far more than other countries had to come to that moment simply using their and knww-how and these very provisions that we're transposing. As far as the capital market situation is concerned, I will say specifically about these open funds as I have stated, so slightly less than 20 billion assets. Of course the fall was last year from 23.6 to those almost below 20, but this is more than 23% last year. So, the market is only recovering, and we're now somewhere somewhere around the 6th month 2019, we expect that by the end of the year safe to those before the pandemic section at 25 billion as far as it was. And as for the comparison with Europe, we're about a dozen times smaller scales with a view to our potentials.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54959	The next replica is the respected representative Grozdana Peric. ... You're done. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54960	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's the crown crisis highlighted exactly the importance of investing in over-capitalisation or not debt securities, what is important is that despite the fact that some policies have been set up in the previous year by facilitating and paying off and being reprogrammed and that the availability of loans to the entrepreneurs themselves is greater, I still believe that, through this way, there will be alternative or open investment funds that the availability of small and medium-sized enterprises will be much higher, and do you expect that this will lead in one way to the expansion of the economy in this period when availability will be much greater?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54961	Thank you. So, yes, here's only one short piece of information regarding these latest developments, and I mentioned 23% more than at the end of March last year the net value of the assets of the funds themselves, hence 11.65 billion kuna and 14% more investors were. So, obviously not only is Europe, but we have a very banking system when it comes to financing the development of entrepreneurial and economic investment and there is a huge and huge opportunity and therefore these alternative funds introduce the possibility and lending to disperse right now and we know what it means to get a loan from the bank, and what it means to get money from investors how much simpler it is. So this is one big opportunity to develop... the capital markets, and especially with us. And when we talk about a comparison, we talk about market capitalisation, which is 75% of GDP for us, and then I say a dozen times more than some potentials, and these are in pools of differences as regards absolute value itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54962	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54963	My dear secretary. In an explanation of the bill of one and the other, you actually interpret and talk about how you will actually achieve the possibility and enable these funds to invest more and actually raise more funds for investments in Croatia. Given the slow growth in Croatia and the high perceptions of corruption in Croatia, is it really realistic to expect this growth to be great, or if you have perhaps analyses that you have been doing how much growth could be the value of funds in funds, especially in alternative funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54964	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54965	So, as for some projections of market growth she's here we read her from monthly quarterly reports. What I can see is that it is concluded with June when we talk about the basic points of our Zagreb Stock Exchange itself passed 2000, so it goes back to the one in front of the pandemic. Surely these stakes that I've mentioned here when we say we're already on one period since 6 months 2019, so almost 20 billion, sure that trends are good, but they're just not as fast as they might be. And that's why we're doing all these changes that I say came not only by transposing the directive but also by doing everything that's been recognised, and I say HANFA has done its own counseling where just the steak holders who are doing this are giving their proposals what would enable them, and we really need to just listen to them and see how better this is safe, but effectively encouraging the growth of that capital. So I believe there must be a big, big opportunity here and that in this direction we go just as always and in everything it doesn't matter what speed we go through.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54966	Time. The next replica is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54967	Good afternoon. You said that legislation will allow easier investment and growth of the capital market, indeed it is shown that there are huge savings in our banks, and that they do not invest in the crisis will probably just accumulate what we have shown now, there is no investment, but there is a accumulation of savings especially in those moments when it comes to the conservative way of investment. But you're announcing nine new investment funds, you're interpreting this new legislative framework as something positive that's going to bring us back out of the crisis, but it means that you're interpreting a single banal question that even non-prosecutors should ask, how do you interpret our peripheral role in capital markets? So if this law since 2008 when it's set hasn't done any good for our economy, why now would we be optimistic about the new legislative frameworks that are supposed to fix all these shortcomings?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54968	So based on optimism, it's based on trend. Trends and in this post or still an epidemiological crisis are good, returning much sooner and much faster than it is in other EU countries, in the end line, you have these estimates of GDP growth in which Croatia ranks among the 3 largest estimates of growth. So the general potential exists, the way to raise funds sure that we should spread, disperse, that we should also do what you mentioned, as regards the growth of savings, surely go towards private investors, or private people as potential investors, and exactly what's best, it's always a double-cut sword, so you're promoting something that someone can lose that money, and then you're going to blame him as a state for telling me that it's wonderful, wonderful, great and wonderful. That's why this marketing-security dance is always important, and these funds are one of the safest ways to invest, and that's why it's very important. So it's not an individual company, it's a series where 10 can grow, one can fall, and generally it will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54969	The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54970	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State. These measures further integrate the European market. For those who have certain capital, they want to invest it, it opens up some new opportunities, but I wanted to ask you about this second part that you mentioned, how is this favored by small and medium-sized enterprises, you were already talking about allowing loans from these investment funds, but what are the expected outcomes of such measures and what are some and educational measures for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to be familiar with this new mechanism?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54971	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54972	Thank you, Your Honor. So this is not a new legislative framework, but we are first of all taking over the acquis, so in line with the objectives set at EU level, so capital... in which one of the main identifications is to make it possible for small and medium-sized enterprises to have access to capital. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the one from the banking part, from the part that some states create through their capabilities, that the market only rises absolutely on sound grounds and that, when, now that there's a surplus of capital, when money is of record low value, this will allow the collapse of capital much faster, and consequently especially if we direct it towards small and medium, it's important. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Surely there is a great role in this in the financial literacy itself, both citizens, but above all, small and medium.../incomprehensible/... and there is now a new action plan and there is certainly one way to guide our citizens, but also entrepreneurs into these forms of financing and investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54973	Thank you. No more replicas. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? The Committee on Law and Finance and the State Budget? No, I don't. If not, then before the debate opens, only a direct notice, the statement of view will be immediately after the end of this point. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives Mosta, the respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54974	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. I would not take this debate, at least my part, only to this legalistic view of the proposal of this law, but I would like to put this whole theme of investment alternative funds and, in general, capital markets in one global context, so this will be the first part of the debate, and on the other hand, to see where we as Croatia are in this whole context, given all the events that are happening around us. As for some global and European developments, at least economically and financially, so what is now seen and seen is that the United States and China have literally swept the EU. At the beginning of the 21st century, so out of 100 companies, 41 therefore, the richest, most valuable by property, were located in the EU, today only 19. If they look at themselves, let's say some of the biggest industries, for example, sports equipment, American Nike and, say, China's Anta, they've swept up German Addisons or, for example, if we're going to look at the investment banking industry, the American JPMorgan Chase has greatly surpassed the Swiss Credit Suisse, so the other reason and the comparative advantages for the US and China, so we're talking today, so for the reasons they invest in, they're young, and they're being led by the people who founded them. For example, Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, etc. Now, what is the basic question, and since we are part of this whole society, is the question "Europe, where did you stop?" because, for example, a global coffee chain may even be expected to come from one Italy, Starbucks has conquered the world, a traditional car engineering that comes from Europe, either Germany, Sweden, Italy, etc., Elon Musk therefore taught traditional European engineering in 20 years, and Switzerland has been known for decades for financial services, banking secrets and ultimately all possible financial fines. So now it's the Swiss bank of Credit Suisse, I don't know if in the first 10, it might be, and on the other hand, the global role has been taken over by an American multinational corporation called BlackRock. Now, as far as the problem is concerned, the European general problem is the heterogeneous market, we are talking now, we are still in an economic and financial context, since the topic is investment alternative funds and the capital market, in fact that, let's say, common markets in the US and China, for example, will make it easier to collapse, i.e. easier to move capital. For example, a bank in California will offer its services more easily in Texas, a bank in Shanghai will offer its services more easily, for example, in Beijing while, for example, a bank in Portugal will offer its services much harder in one Finland, and there are problems above all, language barriers, cultural barriers, regulatory barriers, etc. What I was able to find as far as mentality is concerned was said by a president of the Volva administration who says when European companies think about their domestic market they are still thinking in the context of their country, not in the context of the continent. And in this respect, there is a great comparative advantage of the US and China over the EU itself. So, according to the famous magazine The Economist of 19 major companies that have been established in the last 25 years that have value of over $100 billion, nine of them are located in the United States, eight in China, and none in the EU. And the main reasons given by this Economist is a much larger market which is homogeneous, which is a merger, on the other hand, a deeper capital market is because the EU is perceived exclusively as a regulator and on the third hand top universities that can continue to prepare human potential for all new projects and all things that come into the future. Industrys that dominate, and in the end I will return to the context of Croatia, so fintech are revolutions in financial technology, further electric cars such as Elon Musk or, say, Zhipeng China and robotics, and they are the most invested by investors. I'm deliberately detaching it now for the reason that it was stated here that one escape from debt securities or bond loans, etc. For the reasons that their interest is too low, they are even negative somewhere, and they bring small contributions to investors and they are increasingly resorting to investments such as alternative funds,... loans that we have touched that go from investors and avoid more and more this traditional European banking. Before I came to Croatia, I would still like to put in this context investment, so it was obvious that a few weeks ago the United States and Europe met on a plane industry in which one and the other dumped industries operated or did not market business in the case of Airbus and Boeing, and they showed in fact that by their own principles and did not differ from China which has been doing so for years, and the main reason why they met for the reason that China has already placed on the market a known C919 jet that still does not have such a role as Airbus and Boeing, however, knowing China very quickly will come to these levels. And in this sense, the US administration went into the alliance for the very reason that they are deeply disturbed by this Chinese domination or the growth of the Chinese economy, and it is still evident from that that the US and Europe allies, regardless of the fact that China has penetrated many markets, such as one Germany or, for example, in electric cars, that they have already placed leading leaders on a Norwegian market that has enthusiastic buyers for electric cars. Now, where is Croatia? So we said that the three industries that are more underdeveloped in the world in which the most currently invested, so we have electric cars and robotics on the other hand. What I have managed to find is that recently a new product of Zagreb's Dok-Inga, which was made by the Commodore tank and at the end of the day was founded and a regional centre was also recently established for new research in the field of robotics, so here it may be that this very center develops a new product of Pepe, which will also argue with the president of HS as we had this example to look at a few weeks ago here in HS. So, apart from robotics, what I have managed to find in the index FT 1000 significant jumps have just reached our Croatian companies and should be commended for the reason we are already looking at these alternative investments, it is good to look at how our companies are actually quoted. So the orderly fintech company Oradian has jumped 113th place at 164th is at Q Agency, at 438th. Microblink and 462. Infinum should also be commended, so these are all companies that are registered in Croatia and in these important indices we are very much represented in these important markets. As for electric cars, what I was actually with and proud of is that more and more Roman cars appear in articles such as The Economist or Financial Times and other magazines that monitor actions. And what I see in global capital markets is now being sought by a global competitor like Tesla, no one says it's going to be our Roman, but who knows. So, on the one hand in Europe, they recognize electric cars that work, say our Roman and on the other hand Hispano-Suiz from Spain, so it's another of the companies that do similar things in Europe as our Roman does. And this is very important because it is important now that we position ourselves if nothing on that EU market in these three industries because China penetrates, and the best example in the electric car industry, for example, is Zhipeng, which has already won the Norwegian market. There he is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54975	Next debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54976	Dear President, Mr. Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I'm glad you've gathered in great numbers and we'll discuss these topics. And at first, I would take the opportunity to remind Mr. Troscott that when he was talking about robotics, he forgot to mention extremely important things, which is artificial intelligence and learning machine, means the areas he's definitely going to invest in and that he's already investing in a very large percentage today, so I hope Mr. Troscott accepts and perhaps later on mentioning some other speech. I'd like to go back on the subject now. Since the debate is united, I will first talk about UCITS funds in this debate, and in the final name of the club I will talk about alternative funds, i.e. the law, about the bill, so that we will probably still have a chance to ask Mr. Secretary questions in the final word. The aim of this bill is to further align the Croatian capital market regulatory framework with the EU acquis or to remove barriers to the effective cross-border trade of investment funds, to bring the notification process into line and to harmonise the different practices applied in Member States in relation to cross-border trading of investment funds. We heard a similar formulation yesterday when we were harmonising about those digital content, so we see that we actually have several laws on Wednesday that actually line up in almost the same way, or have the same proposals, or the same goal. The proposal for a law introduces an obligation to set up a system enabling the operation of tasks relating to the trading of open investment funds and making them available to small investors in each Member State in which the management company intends to trade such as processing of requirements for the issuance and purchase of the shares of the UCITS Fund and the execution of other payments to the holders of the shares related to the shares of the UCITS Fund. Afterwards, the provision of information to investors on how to submit applications for the issuance and purchase of the shares of the UCITS Fund and how to pay the proceeds from the purchase of the UCITS Fund, facilitate the processing of information and access to data and measures related to the execution of complaints from investors and make available to investors all information and documents of the UCITS Fund such as prospectuses, rule, documents with key investor information. The proposed law also provides for a procedure for a management company from the Republic of Croatia which wants to establish a branch on the territory of another Member State in order to carry out the activity for which HANFA has granted it work authorisation, as well as for a management company trading the shares of the UCITS Fund in the host Member State of the UCITS Fund. In particular, the draft law provides for a notification of the intended change in the information contained in the notice and documentation to be provided with notice of the intention of setting up a branch in another Member State, or delivered with notice of the intention to start trading. Our legislative framework introduces both the concepts and the basic provisions of UCITS ETF, meaning a traditional fund, as a special type of open investment fund with a public offering, whose share is traded on a regulated third market or... A trading platform with at least one market maintainer that takes appropriate actions to ensure that the market value of their shares does not differ significantly from its net asset value and, where applicable, its indicative net asset value in accordance with the investment fund guidelines, the shares of which are traded on the stock market and other issues related to the UCITS funds prescribed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to note that the bill also takes into account transparency towards investors, which we particularly welcome, takes into account the good and timely information of investors, and therefore, in the context of the mandatory content of the UCITS fund prospectus, the risk profile of the UCITS fund from the investment elements of the UCITS Fund. I must point out that this bill makes a good step in the management company's part to prepare organisational, technical and technological information for the timely and accurate information of investors and that clearly prescribed sanctions for a management company that does not comply with the provisions. I note this because of the fact that it is expected and sought as much transparency as possible and that it has given the companies sufficient time to prepare for such an approach and articles of the bill relating to these provisions will enter into force from 1.1.2023, indicating that they have been given sufficient time to prepare and that there will be no room for excuses in the event of breach of those provisions. I'm thinking of an art here. 26 and 56 of this bill. As I said yesterday in the debate on the draft law on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services, we welcome as a club discussions on laws and the adoption of laws and provisions that will take effect only months or even later because such an approach allows all participants to prepare adequately for the activities and procedures provided for in the law and thus avoid misunderstandings and possible penalties that may occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54977	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54978	Honorable chairman, respected state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Open Investment Funds with a public offering and a Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Alternative Investment Funds Act. I'll mention the last time we discussed them here in 2019. United as well as today, and now we are re-enhancing them and harmonising the complete Croatian regulatory framework with the EU acquis. The final proposal of the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering was mentioned earlier in 2008, but I note that it was adopted on 29.4.2016. In the 8th meeting of the HS and its adoption, the protection of investors in open investment funds has been increased and the rules of liability of depositaries have been laid down and a request for the remuneration of management company employees has been defined. It also simplified the licensing process, and then we are in 2019. The same recent changes were in line with the EU acquis and the securitisation regulation. At that time, new provisions have also been introduced, which have given powers to the companies for the management of open investment funds, in order to be able to carry out service activities. Today we have, as I said, a bill whose reason is to bring Croatia's regulatory framework into line with the EU acquis and those directives. Directive 2019/1160 of that Regulation 2019/1156 aims at removing barriers to cross-border trade in investment funds, equating the notification process and harmonising different practices in EU Member States, and concerns cross-border trade in investment funds. In the bill of law, we can read what are the main objectives of amending and supplementing this law. These are among other things the establishment of a system that enables the operation of tasks in relation to the trading of UCITS funds and making them available to small investors in each EU Member State where the UCITS fund management company intends to trade. Furthermore, rules for withdrawal of information on the trading of the shares of UCITS funds in Member States are also prescribed, in relation to one or more UCITS funds, in such a way that the management company that withdraws the notice of trading is obliged to make a general offer for the purchase of the share free of charge, an exit fee that must last 30 days and be published on a publicly available medium. We also heard from the secretary of state that in Croatia after 94 UCITS funds and that they have a total of 19.3 billion kunas of asset value. The amendments shall also provide for a notification of the intended change in the information contained in the notification and documentation provided with notice of the intention of setting up a branch in another Member State. which is delivered with notice of the intention to start trading. It is also prescribed to supplement the provisions for the calculation of the general fixed costs for the purposes of calculating the management company's minimum regulatory capital. The introduction of a new UCITS concept, ETF Exchange traditional fund, was also mentioned, which would be a specific type of open-end investment fund with a public offering of which at least one share class is traded during the day on a regulated market or multilateral trading platform and the specificities of ETF are prescribed. Finally, changes take place in relation to the mandatory content of the UCITS Fund prospectus, the separation of the risk profile of the UCITS Fund from the investment elements of the UCITS Fund as an obligation to the management company in the event of use of other liquidity management tools other than the suspension of the issue or purchase of the share of specific tools and circumstances clearly refer to the investor and to the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency at the beginning of the same notification and the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds in one of the earlier amendments to the Law, procedures for the establishment, business and termination of the operation of an alternative investment fund management company have been laid down. It also classified companies in three classes small, medium and large on the basis of the size of the assets which the company manages and categories of investors with which the share of individual alternative investment funds can be offered. It also sought a whole new level of raise and insurance and protection of small investors. Today's law reconciling ourselves with the EU acquis, bringing the Croatian capital market regulatory framework into line with the EU acquis, these changes and the administrative and regulatory disbursement of alternative investment funds that we have heard have 34 in Croatia and that have the 4.4 billion kuna value of assets. Some of the main objectives of these amendments are that in the bill and the introduction of the definition before marketing and the regulation of the conditions for performing pre-marketing activities in relation to alternative investment funds offered exclusively to professional investors, so as we have heard it means certain rules of the game on the capital market. Rules for withdrawal of share trading notices and shares of alternative investment funds in the host Member State are also prescribed in relation to one or more alternative investment funds. What needs to be set aside as more important to regulate the framework for one of the possible alternative forms of funding is an alternative investment fund for lending, meaning the investment fund gives a loan acting as a single or primary lender to loans such as small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also proposed to raise the upper threshold for a small company to manage alternative investment funds from 75 to 350 million kuna in the case of the use of a financial leverage, i.e. a billion and 400 million kuna, in the case of a non-use of a financial leverage. With this change, the Republic of Croatia will receive nine new small managers who were previously classified as large or medium, as well as two new middle managers who were previously classified as large. It is also important to point out that less demanding obligations are introduced when acquiring or increasing a qualifying share in small and medium-sized companies, and investment companies are allowed to be depositaries of alternative investment funds. In order to increase competitiveness, otherwise, to make the whole capital market as competitive as possible, regulatory redundancies in the amendments and additions to this law are proposed and a series of measures such as reducing the minimum amount of capital for small managers from the existing half-million kuna when the manager is appointed as external manager to 400,000 kuna. Discharges are further proposed in the appointment of members of the management board, the change in the concept of the approval of alternative funds with a private offer, the discharge in the field of reporting for small managers will also be implemented through the amendments to the Agency's rules governing reporting for managers and alternative investment funds managed by them. It is noted, among other things, that harmonisation will be carried out with other regulations in order to remove the shortcomings detected through the current bang, which contributes to uniformity of conduct and legal certainty. In essence, both of these amendments to the law on amendments and additions either in open-end investment funds with a public offering, or in alternative investment funds, are finally to facilitate, deploy and advance operations in these funds. From all of this, the HDZ Representatives Club will support these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54979	Next is a debate on behalf of the HSS and RF MP, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54980	Good afternoon, everyone. I will ask a slightly broader question than what has been asked in the debate itself, primarily the very roles of such hermetical legislative proposals that do not speak very little to experts. What is the subtext of such proposals is mainly some thesis that non-experts should agree to the legislative proposals that fully comply with European legislation and thus agree to that model that is imposed on us, but should not be questioned. So the harmonisation of the capital market should be fully taken over as a normative framework because it is so-called. I repeat again yesterday that adjustment to eu-legislative. Taking over such laws is limited by such a cut. In this case, we really need to ask the question of what do we have? So the capital market there is a law passed back in 2008. Our capital market is by no means competing with large capital markets, we are at the beginning. One interesting failure in the speech of my colleague Troscott has come to me with another reason to mention something else, which is the fact that America and China are at this moment ahead and that they have fully arrived at the EU and EU companies and continued to explain why, explaining the model of American success, the classic meaning of Elon Musk and similar entrepreneurs who individually succeed in achieving great successes without social, so to speak, without social support in doing so by making a slip, not mentioning that this model is significantly different from the Chinese model. So if we have an American model that boasts as a model of that classic individual entrepreneur that invests, invests and generates added value, which is certainly not the model we have in China. So a completely different model, which is really partly based on these investment funds, but which are really for the Chinese only one form of setting up opportunities for a Vencher fund and investment together with Western companies, but several forms of some sort of window in which they appear, and in fact the whole model of Chinese growth is based on state interventionism and state protectionism that we have here completely banned and limited, even though China has drawn millions of people out of poverty and we could draw some conclusions from that, but if we don't here China, which is far away from us, we can ask ourselves why German investments are not exclusively based on investment funds but more on banks. So here's the secretary of state also said the banks are investments that are complicated, let's just say it so simplisticly, and when we have an investor that invests it's much simpler loans. I think there should be some kind of question here and ask some kind of framework for the skepticism. I also asked the secretary of state where optimism came from, why would we now be optimistic if it was a very similar model to all of those European legislations that were improving, which from year to year, from cycle to cycle were fixing to say so, which is with the funds case. So it is always promised that the new type of fund and this framework of legislation will provide greater security for these investors, that it will minimise the risks for investors and thus boost the capital market in our case, but when we look at the world that is not the case, we are absolutely limited and we have to admit that there is this inherent mechanism of generating the crisis and that we cannot avoid the crisis. I asked the question why optimism, why now we have some kind of positive view of it, why we don't have a critical view of all the legislative proposals that concern the capital markets from before, means all the regulations we take over, and we're still at the beginning. Now the secretary of state answered what I often hear from HDZ, which is that I think optimism is based on trend, and with HDZ, the answer is that the trend is that we have GDP growth, but that is a manipulative argument because GDP growth also has Zimbabwe. So the question is, where are we going? So we start from very low branches if we look at growth only then we are far behind in relation to other countries in the EU. We do have growth, but this growth compared to other countries' growth is very low and very weak. Therefore, we cannot take this growth as some indication of our good condition. I always say that if we talk about positive trends and negative trends then you must always take those statistics from the DZS on poverty and deprivation that show the real state of affairs, and the real state of affairs is that almost a million people live in conditions or in danger of poverty, 300,000 children live in danger of poverty, etc., so these indicators of social depression and poverty are indeed to say sobering. Now, if we ask such questions unpleasant things that don't really like to rule, then what's being asked as a solution? Are we going to reject this proposal now or not? I think the rejection and acceptance of this proposal will in no way affect any economic growth and the improvement of those who could profit from our legislative proposals. So we won't fix anything for them in either way, but I keep asking the question whether we can ask other questions. Can we ask a question of real economic growth in some models or will we continue to paint European legislation from letters to letters without noticeing and autistically refusing to notice that taking over this European legislation does not bring us anything good. So we continue with the same tone in the same rhythm, but the results are no, we can't in any way develop like that, we're just going to scratch at the beginning. So the question at all is whether or not we're going to accept this legal proposal, I mean it's not a question at all. What we should be asking as a question is why investment funds have not done what is again promised in this legislative proposal, how are we going to change that, whether we can ask some other questions, and these questions are, of course, being asked in the National Strategy of Recovery and Resistance in national various plans, political papers, so there is a question to be asked, can we imagine some model in which the state still plays a more active role. Yesterday we also had a story yesterday about workers of the Orjava state firm, which the state purposely, deliberately destroys and gives jobs to private companies to sew shirts for the MORH, for the police, for state institutions, instead of encouraging the state to be an entrepreneur, to encourage this growth and economic development, or we will continue to catch up on the very beginning by cheating on European legislation and proposals. So much, here's how much I don't know if we're going to support it, we're probably going to be held back on this proposal because we don't think that it brings anything to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54981	Next is the debate on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representative, the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54982	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have two amendments and an addition to the law, and this is the Law on Open Investment Funds with a public offering and the Law on Alternative Investment Funds. As we have been on hold for the last year and a half, we are on hold with a lot of things, and the question arises as to what with the investment funds in Croatia both open and alternative. The promoter assures us through these two amendments and the addition of the law that the situation is encouraging, that the assets that the funds have increased compared to the beginning of the year also appear to be growing the number of small investors in open investment funds. One of our basic problems is that people remain relatively large savings, and the word is somewhere around 200 billion kunas keep in various inactive forms instead of being activated including through funds. I really don't want to use the term financial literacy and then suggest that the citizens are illiterate, but there is indeed the inadequacy of our people to invest in funds and it must be not only a result of knowledge or ignorance but also of long-term forms and ways of savings in our country. The government, as well as the funds themselves, will still have to work hard to attract people and develop such a relationship with trust that would significantly contribute to making people in greater numbers and with greater money decide to invest in funds. This will only be possible in part through the increase in knowledge or literacy as this is commonly said, but it will take a lot of work to make people feel comfortable with such investments and to trust the funds and also the state. And we know it won't be easy to achieve, especially this other one that our citizens and we begin to trust the state ourselves. The Ministry of Finance has informed us, among other things, that a new framework for raising financial literacy has been published in the National Journal for the next six years, together with it and an action plan for two years. It's certainly useful and good, but what we all know from the publication in the People's Newspaper to the realization is a very, very long way to go. There are also us here who talk about the need to introduce civil education into the education system from the earliest age, and we talk about the fact that from the earliest age of really our children should be taught that, I will use the term, the financial literacy that they actually have basic elements and basic knowledge and we all know that this is not the case. So the answer to the question when we will all be together and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will begin to believe more is the answer among other things and education. And now that we're talking about open funds and alternative funds, our numbers are still low. This is especially visible in alternative funds where the value of the assets is only at around 1% of Croatia's GDP. In Germany, it's over 57% of GDP, I used data that the applicant stated in the explanation and I didn't go to check them out, the assumption is that they are indeed downloaded from the relevant websites, i.e. the relevant data. In France, it is more than 48%, and at EU level, this figure is equally above 48%. This means that we are really significantly behind, and that we are actually not there compared to the EU. Behind us are our usual partners who are at the bottom of the scale with us when something needs to be evaluated, that is Bulgaria, but this time Slovenia also joined us. This is a great shame because the structure of investment and the interests of professional and institutional investors make alternative funds a good source of funding for businesses, even those not on the capital market, and need additional investment. Stronger alternative funds for Croatia could mean a wider choice of long-term financing for businesses, especially small and medium-sized. This would again mean supporting the recovery of the economy after the Covid-19 pandemic. These amendments and additions, these two laws, essentially, in addition to harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, actually seem to facilitate and even the business of funds and make their business more transparent. We can't say, that's good stuff. Especially in the part where our funds are facilitated by business, i.e. where the situation is avoided that funds from other Member States are easier or simpler for any reason than ours, including on the Croatian market. These include different regulatory discharges that are predicted here. So, we have laws through two readings, we are harmonising through these laws with EU directives and with some good European practices, I don't doubt that in the first and second readings these laws will get quite enough hands to get them through, we also think that we really need to keep an eye on our regulation somehow, show that indeed Croatia is a country that is somehow moving forward. But these laws will remain a dead letter on paper if we don't finally decide on a model. Today at the world level, as my predecessors have already spoken, they spoke about the American model, they spoke about the Chinese model, so Croatia, as small as we are, can hardly be compared and used by one of these models. But it should somehow be recognised in the EU by some countries that have some kind of model. I do not think that we can make copy-passes and say now something that is applicable in a country with another tradition, some other way of life is equally applicable in Croatia, but you should always decide on some model, see what good practices are and see what is applicable to us. So what the indicators are, the indicators show and I'll come back one more time. Alternative funds, the value of the assets of around 1% of GDP. The figure at EU level is about 48% and it clearly shows where we are. It clearly shows that we are only here, in the very beginning, but clearly shows that there are possibilities. This is what needs to be done and it needs to be taken into account and these are some state policies that need to be done. Of course, every time we talk about a plan of resilience and recovery. So this plan of resilience and recovery, or recovery and resilience, that resistance, that something happens to us the second time, one of the levers for that can be what we're talking about today, which, of course, is an extremely professional, extremely important topic, and it's never some of the topics that cause debate in the Parliament all day, but that's the case. I would only refer to the particularly important changes that are made with open funds, which increase business transparency, availability of fund information and their business for small investors. This includes means of communication with funds, processing of different types of requests, resolving complaints and regular thorough reporting of investors with full availability of these documents. So that's the part that I always read technically, and technically means that it makes life easier for those who use this law, for those who really work under that law, to make their lives easier and certainly what we need to take care of, which is that all those funds that work in the territory of Croatia have the same rights as in the whole of the EU, or that we don't have any way of thinking about it. So I read these alignments with the directive in this way, and this second part I was talking about, I was talking about this financial literacy, about how to encourage our people to invest instead of keeping the money somewhere else, that's the part where we need to work seriously, and it's certainly not going to be done through these two amendments and supplementing these two laws, but it's a much, much bigger and more extensive job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54983	Following individual debates, the first respected representative called Brumnic is gone. He's losing his right. Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Grodana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54984	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, given that much has already been said as regards the very amendment of the law, I will once again mention in fact how important these funds can be to invest and to finance small and medium-sized enterprises. Indeed, as I said in the reply to the State Secretary, these types of capitalisation and non-debt securities can indeed bring small and medium-sized enterprises to have better access to the financial market or to financial resources other than that of the classic model which is a bank loan and which is really much more demanding in these conditions. I'll look back at how much net assets of investment funds have grown in the Republic of Croatia, and now according to the latest figures, it's 19.8 billion kuna and somewhere around 3.7 billion kuna is more than a year ago. In the very structure of funds and net assets, 14.8 are bond funds, and around 2 billion are shares, so it is preferable to the bond funds, and it is really important that in the structure itself it is preceded by exactly domestic bonds where over 7.5 billion government bonds are, and about a billion almost 2 billion are deposits. Also in this structure, we have about 6.5 billion foreign dollars of which is 3.8 bonds and a billion and a half shares, and there are about 3 billion dollars of money left and about 23 million kuna claims. When we talk about what's happening on the market itself, we can really ask ourselves how much and how can it be expected to further expand exactly these funds? This optimism can result and arise precisely from the fact that most investors are waiting for a certain statistical confirmation of economic recovery, personal consumption, then the development of tourism, but also the effectiveness of the vaccine. All of this is important in order to really encourage this entrepreneurial elan. In the context of this, we can speak and raise a few questions, including what this means in terms of inflation and really when we speak in this context, we can say that the management of funds will be more cautious, especially with binding positions because they are much more exposed than those stocks. We can also ask ourselves, can the public ask what the offerings are? So far, according to the latest data, the biggest contributions have been made in stock funds on average of around 10.11% and, in particular, in the short term, in the short term. We can also ask ourselves how many small investors there are in the Republic of Croatia how attractive is that? So, according to the latest data, around 207,000 are the end of 2020, according to various investment funds, about 55% of the natural person and the rest are legal. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54985	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54986	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues Grozdana Peric, tell me how much is the share of alternative investment funds in GDP and could their empowerment support the future and recovery of the economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54987	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54988	Thank you, thank you, colleague. Here is what Mrsak Taritash mentioned in the previous debate, so the share of alternative funds in Croatia is very small, so there are only 38, 40 per last data, and they really make up only 1.1% of GDP, which is not enough in relation to Europe and Germany and France and other countries that have over 50 or almost 50%, which is the average somewhere and the EU around 40 seems to me percentages, so they are the ones who can give, they are so structured that they can lend loans and that's what small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have more available financial resources for development than they are bank loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54989	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54990	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. My colleague Peric, so you and I, in the debate, talked about alternative investment funds and their potential, and that is indeed the case. There is potential, the potential for investment for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs or businesses can be much simpler and easier to obtain than classic bank loans. But what we all need to ask ourselves is a question and see what models they are and what tools they are, how to encourage more investment. So we on the one hand have 1% of BPDs make us these funds, and on the other hand we have a huge savings that is inactive, which is neither, so today people, when they have savings in banks, they don't even get more for the show, they don't even pay for it anymore. Why did we grow the value of real estate? Is at one point people decided to invest in real estate? So we don't have a culture of investment money to get through it. What do you do? What tools? How do you do that? That's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54991	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54992	Thank you, colleague Dark Taritash. So, indeed, Croatians are used to saving exactly in real estate and that's what's important difference from many other countries of Europe and the world and here in this way I really think it's time to start thinking and to approach it more agilely, but to strengthen the HANFA. So we would have to be as citizens sure that the regulator will be strong enough, active enough, strong enough both technically and human resources to be able to do exactly with these amendments of the law as best as possible and as best as possible to monitor this very capital market and monitor funds, especially these alternative ones, which will then be the ones who will invest and provide significant support to the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54993	Following the final debate, the first SDP advocates' club and respected representative Zeljko Pavić are the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54994	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Today, it's been said a lot about alternative funds, and I don't think we should repeat what it says in the bill's proposals. I would just look back at things that I think are extremely important, they are now mentioned by my colleague Peric, which is that the law proposes to further regulate the legal and regulatory framework for one of the possible alternative funding methods, i.e. alternative investment funds could lend what needs to be noted that some Member States have already done so. This would mean that loans to small and medium-sized enterprises would receive from alternative investment funds loans or that the EIF would be the only or primary lender which could constitute another channel of economic recovery for Croatia. I think it is very important to note because it is definitely one of the good tools for economic development. I will not talk about the proposed thresholds and about small managers to alternative funds because Mr. Secretary has already said this in his presentation, but what I would like to mention is that the thresholds for medium managers of alternative investment funds are also changing in a way that increases the bottom threshold to the upper threshold for small AIFMs. This change would have caused the Republic of Croatia to get new nine small UAIFs that were previously classified as large or medium, and would have been given two new UAIFAs that were previously classified as... We think this is good because this approach opens up greater opportunities for the creation of new managers with alternative investment funds with smaller regulatory burdens that are appropriate to their risk profile. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With such an increase in thresholds... less burdensome regulatory requirements would apply to those managers of alternative investment funds currently classified as medium, and according to the new classification would be small. This is particularly important for us to note, since we know what the number of alternative investment funds in Croatia is that there are 338 of them, according to data from late June 2020. The value of the assets in Croatia is only €4.4 billion, and how much space there is for the establishment and operation of alternative investment funds tells us that this property is only about 1.1% of Croatian GDP, and in particular we see space when compared to Germany where the value of the net assets of alternative investment funds is equal to as much as 57.8% of GDP or with France where it is 48% of GDP. And I must mention what it says in the bill and the interpretation that at EU level the value of the assets of alternative investment funds is about 48.4% of GDP. The fact is that the development of the alternative fund industry would allow, among other things, a wider choice of long-term alternative financing for businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, and therefore also a understandable legislative initiative on regulatory discharge and achieving a higher level of proportionality. I'm not going to talk about those numbers that were already mentioned earlier, but I'd like to look back at earlier non-recognitions and we can't discuss it. We're here to discuss and what we don't know we need to know about it and we need to learn something. What we don't know is what we ask experts who do this, so they help us in our speeches, they help us in our discussions, and after that we can discuss normally. All those who have heard about the SKDD in Croatia for a long time, they heard about the central clearing and depositary society, they heard about the HNFA on the SDD sites and on the HANFA sites there's a lot of data on securities, there's a lot of information on investment funds on the HANFA sites, and since other than these funds that we're talking about today, we've also had a Mirovinski Fund or a pension fund, we have a trust fund, I think we should all know about it, and we can't afford to know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54995	Thank you. The next debate is HSS's Club of Representatives of the RF, finally respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54996	Here's what I pulled out of some numbers that might give us some illustration why this huge optimism that someone's going to start an economy isn't real. So according to CNB reports, the rich in us are low in investment, and more accumulate their wealth, so 1.7% of the people in the Republic of Croatia hold over 40% of the savings and 75 billion kuna in banks, so there's a huge accumulation of savings that's even increased. So within a year of that crown of the year, the savings of citizens increased by an additional 11 billion kuna, but no, that's not being invested. German private banks introduce fines on savings of more than EUR 100,000. But when someone in Croatia touches this sensitive topic of accumulated savings then it is declared a Bolshevik. In a year's savings means we've had an extra 11 billion kuna battery. The deposit per capita is 52,872 kuna, but well that means it's classic, some eat meat, a lot of cabbage, so on average we eat charm, most of it doesn't mean that money. 20% of the people in the banks own these 95% savings, 0.0025% of the richest earns more than 50% of the poorest. Of those households that have at all some deposit in half is less than 2,000 kuna, so most people have no savings at all, those who have very little. Before the start of the pandemic corona, 70% of the population had virtually no chance, no savings from their income. 120 super millionaires in the Republic of Croatia have net assets greater than 190 million kuna, including 11 who have net assets greater than 640 million kuna. Check this out, it means 640 million kuna. It's a accumulated savings. In the Republic of Croatia, we have 150,000 people who have about a million kunas, these smaller ones, meaning a million kunas of savings on the bank, and their savings are only increasing. These are the numbers we got from the CNB that are really scary, so the huge, huge difference and the huge social differences are there. On the other hand, we know that we have 1/3 of people living on the edge of poverty, more than half of the pensioners living on the edge of poverty, wages being among the lowest in the EU. Well, considering that, then there's really a question going on, and how are we going to get these, uh, good numbers of super millionaires to invest? No, I mean, this law won't make them invest, but we can expect the minimum stakes and the percentages we've already heard as much of that capital market. What is really frightening are the consequences of such a policy that is based here on optimism which is not justified, which is that Croatia in 2020 dropped to 64% of the EU average GDP per capita compared to 65% in 2019, and thus cemented the status of the second poorest EU member in society with Greece right behind Bulgaria, whose GDP grew to 55% of GDP actually wrote in the paper the other day. Since 2008, when the Capital Market Act was introduced, we have this optimism about the law and the capital boom is expected, since then nothing good has happened. Nine new investment funds are now being announced here, and it is said to be one of the safest ways of investment. We also have to say the same thing when it's said that this is one of the safest ways of investment that is completely what... means people who lost their roles in the last crisis in 2008-'09. This certainly wasn't a safe way to invest, but, of course, each time, it states that new mechanisms and new regulations will lead to greater security and less risk exposure, but we know that it goes until it goes away. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This shows that we have a system that's inherently moving towards crises. So the aim of this Directive is to remove barriers to effective trading in investment funds and other mechanisms, but we must be extremely skeptical of their achievements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54997	On behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Secretary of State, Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54998	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. I've got a little bit more time now, but I'm going to try to use it as well as I can, of course, re-reference myself as always for a debate that I thank you for, and I think the importance of these discussions is that we encourage what's been problemed, and that's the level of information and at all about the topic itself, the advantages and the disadvantages, or what someone has stated here... But first of all, I would say something that is certainly an opportunity and some trend that we must, we must be aware and certainly take advantage of it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Generally, as far as the situation and the capital market itself is concerned, so I initially tried to elaborate as much as possible. So other than direct registration with brokers and giving orders to buy certain shares or securities, you can do so by buying shares in funds. Today we are talking about these funds, different types of funds exist, open, public, private, closed, for qualified investors etc., alternative investment funds that give greater width, less regulatory requirements that we continue to lower as regards these jusitis funds, and... and the test of funds their regulatory requirement is 5 million kuna, they can be 4 large categories, so I'll say it and by the risk itself are cash, bonds, mixed and shares. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Stocks are the most risky. For example, the opportunities they give are certainly that they can be involved with smaller amounts. So, you have certain shares that are listed di one share goes into several thousand kunas themselves, and here you can invest sectorally, so you deploy your portfolio to several such ones, increase security or participate with a smaller share given what you want and you have. Of course, it is this diversification of the investment itself that is made possible by funds that is one of the most important things and is not too much of an individual’s expertise to make the investment itself. That's why there are certain, certain management companies that do it and as far as the techniques and technologies themselves are concerned, but they have their own entry and exit fees, and that's the same thing we should pay attention to when we choose them from these 11 that we have listed. Accordingly, I would just point out what's going on at the capital market at the beginning before I address myself to, to, to the rest, and that's that in, says data for the first quarter of this year, stock funds so they're the most risky ones that made a contribution of 5.67%, so far, far beyond any possibility of yielding, and you're either tools and savings of interest that get mixed by, say, 2.59%, and the rest of 1.4%. So, surely there's a certain contribution that's far greater than keeping money on account alone, the incomparable fact is, it's itself bigger. And as for the data we've already heard, it means at the end of March this year, so it's 19.3 billion kuna for the net asset value of all the funds that is just over a billion kuna or 6% more than at the beginning of the year itself. But 3.66 billion and 23% more than we had in late March last year. And I'm going to do that a little bit more referencing to that data itself. But in order for the exhibitors themselves, the esteemed representative Troscott touched on a global context, the role of the EU itself and Europe in relation to the United States, China, probably Japan and Russia. The pie is its kind, it's paraphrasing... or where Europe stands. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the possibility of investment, of course, it would only point out that Europe remains the most desirable place for life, or place where it is best to live across our planet, according to all research. Of course, all of this should be taken with an aspect when we look at these data as investments take place and capital markets around the world, then we must not forget about the crisis itself that was in 2008 and what it meant to many families in America and how they are neither guilty nor in debt, as one would say, without anything. So it's always this one risk dance that we have to be aware of and the very big goal of these changes that we have here not only with this law here today and what we had between the two readings, which next week will be about the capital market is where Europe wants to ensure that such risks don't come. And this is an increase in security that is always parallel to one step with increasing the potential of interest and businesses themselves, but also private persons to invest and encourage the market. So, absolute transparency, security, risk reduction, this is what the EU is seeing because of the crisis in 2008, which was primarily a crisis of the financial sector where something that trades different derivatives, different betting on yields, insurance, something that we still need to live up to and live up to and through the introduction and securitisation that we are going to do, which is certainly a good instrument for ensuring these risks, as well as increasing the overall potential of bank financing as a publisher, most often refers to housing loans. The distinguished representative Troscott also pointed out a certain situation in Croatia itself, several examples and set some three basics regarding the development of electric cars, alone, the finetech industry itself and what he thinks is the future. As for the esteemed representative Pavic, therefore, he also touched Croatia's situation, he reiterated certain regulations, as regards cross-border trade itself, and the appearance of transparency and the security of equal rules for all. And, of course, by the fact that management companies have to work and as regards trade withdrawal notices and the way around themselves and the fees and everything that allows to protect private companies, the investor himself. As for the esteemed representative of Brkan, he mentioned well in 2016 when the first law was passed regarding these funds themselves. Of course it is, and that is, noting the very objectives of these changes and additions to this very information notification. He also put these new ones into the new laws, which is so-called. Strange changes trends funds or RTFs that will be able to actually trade on secondary markets, which is an opportunity if you want me to connect with the esteemed representative of Troscott right now to recognize the electric car markets as some fast-growing branch then you will address this fund, RTF fund and I want to say I want to invest my property or my money in this sector. And then that doesn't just mean one thing, but that's exactly how it's going to relate to certain stock indices and how these individual sectors are going to be monitored by buying all or more, shares of several such companies. This information has also been provided and we heard this in further discussions where we are today at 1.1% 4.4 billion... Investment funds. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Germany is 56% of GDP, France 48, the average Europe 48.4. But we shouldn't forget when we talked about America, so these are the centuries-old traditions of stock trade. We know from which system we came and which we have all the transitions, all the problems that led us, so of course we can't compare with someone who's already been 50 or 100. develops both culture and descriptiveness and financial trade, given that during this transition period, we have had these problems that actually the state is working, not the capital market. So we are relatively young, which, of course, makes this more significant by joining the EU and comes only the last 10 years. It is arranged and initiated in the end line. As for the esteemed representative, Peovic, in two segments, so the only thing I could not figure out from the entire discourse as to whether it was desirable to encourage the capital market or the planning market economy or not, but somehow it was different for me that this was not good enough to be better, then in one segment the state needs more, more state interventionism, so I essentially didn't understand what it wanted. As far as consent is concerned, we are asking questions here today, but we need to know that these directives and these regulations are being adopted at EU level where we have our representatives. We need to know how we operate, we need to know why then we have elections for the European Parliament, why we have our own representations in Brussels and how that part works. This does not mean that we should not and must not question, but it has not fallen to us from heaven now, so it can be absolutely given, to look at it, unfortunately it takes too long decisions at EU level, for months, and even years, transposition deadlines are long, so it all comes very well to follow and react. Also, as to why, why optimism? Well, first of all, I was talking about the trend not of GDP growth but of the trend that we're talking about in the capital market. So let's say these are, these are graphs that show how we've been going through a crisis, where we've fallen as far as mandatory public funds and the jurist funds where we are right now, how property was moving. So it's obviously a lot faster to recover than it's been thought. That's something I've mentioned before. So, of course, the potential is far greater when we only talk about the problemed savings that are growing, absolutely in every crisis of people a little stop, they pull out manually, thank God not in this as much as it was in that before and of course that both policies at the level and the EU, and even the world has changed, so it's not that anymore... politics rather than just investment and this is on the trail of the same policy everything we do here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why are you still optimistic? Why would you do that? So let's say what I mentioned in the opening statement, HANFA conducted a consultation from 24 February to 12 April with the aim of collecting participants' views on the market of efficiency and proportionality of the existing legal and sublaw framework. Translated, therefore, investment funds, alternative investment funds, management companies, representatives of these industries have been making proposals to what is now. And the vast majority of today's changes that we're talking about here when we're talking about cutting thresholds, here we also don't have a prominent representative of Peovic is not the new 9 alternative small- and 9 medium-sized investment funds that have more, more liberalization now, more work opportunities, reduction of that core capital from 500 to 400,000 and other series of these reductions in administrative and regulatory, let's say a barrier to notification, reporting, we had this in the Capital Market Act similar thing, so to encourage this. So here it's done parallel to market participants and I think it's such a kind of a political, really quality way of doing it because just because, judging by the interest of this home and the application, there are not so many topics that we haven't heard any recommendations about where, where there would be any political differences here. So, and then it's just allowed for those of you who are involved in making suggestions, for those who know how to do it and for them to make it possible. Of course, we all share the same goal of each citizen living better, and that is ultimately the main goal of how to invest, how to contribute to the growth of the economy, and thus help those who do not have the means to invest because the whole economy is rising up. So, as far as these development models themselves are concerned, I think we have a definitely chance to learn from other people's mistakes, evaluate far faster, someone has timelessly evaluated to pass these laws today to recognize it, we're jumping on a train not at the beginning but far from the beginning, only of course we have to execute, and that's also the question in the replica, and a couple of times the distinguished representative Mrak-Taritash has also apostropheededed. As far as the descriptive and financial literacy action plan itself is concerned, let's say in June webinar was recently held – financing small and medium-sized entrepreneurship with private capital and through the progress of the market. The progress of the market is something new that HANFA did and we spoke in the Capital Market Act, also a special segment to finance small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and it was organised by HGK. A lot of this kind of stuff, of course, doesn't go through, you don't see it in the news, but it's something that needs to be distracted and told our citizens that there are alternative sources of funding, investments, and it certainly needs to be informed first of all about HGK and therefore the HGK needs to and should be used and it should only be done much more and much better. And of course other specific management, management companies themselves, both at the level of the stock exchange and those working on information, to us state bodies and agencies that regulate it. Everyone together needs to improve it because there's obviously a chance alone. Also respected representative Mrak-Taritash is there the same one law dialogue she welcomed, she mentioned the very data I had already said and the need to activate those assets so as not to flee to that part of security when the real estate crisis is but to try to go into these, investments in the funds themselves, I said the funds are the safest way to invest their assets, financial assets. As for the esteemed representative Peric, absolutely giving this one, one, to say, opportunity for the small and medium entrepreneurship that needs to be further developed because this, what we could all agree on here only by passing this law we cannot promise that this will happen, we give the framework that this can happen. And that's generally the role of the state. You have to say nothing like this but to provide a framework for citizens to judge for themselves what they want the best they know, and thus enable them to have access to information, so that small and medium-sized enterprises know how to, that this literacy is the financial that we talk about all the time and thus participate in. So the state not only in this part, but in everything it is necessary to set the frames and then let people know for themselves how their money will work. That's a lot of times said in this house, and you let me do what I want with my money. Of course, there's always some rules of the game they need to know if. The prominent representative Peric also spoke about the structure of the investment, she mentioned the amounts we already talked about, how small it was, in which it was invested, compared to the billions that were invested, so 14% higher exactly that increase in investment by small investors, and their net assets in these funds is 11.65 billion. In conclusion, I think that I have touched more or less everyone, here are the other respected representatives of Peović, criminal or negative interest, of course we have already had reasons in those previous discussions. And why the negative interest? Because there's a money surf on the market, interest rates are extremely low and money manipulation costs are bigger than alone, only what you can earn by paying that money, and that's why it's actually interest and negative, that negative interest, and that's exactly the opportunity for this kind of investment, because that's what deters people from saving. But now people don't save to make contributions, and we have to simply say to them that you can diversify, that you can safely invest, or as safely as possible, no investment is 100% certain that we understand each other even though investment in bonds represents the largest amount of investment, but this is also going to open up for the vast majority and possibility of investment and in these situations through our mandatory pension funds that have been removed from these bonds of government and out of the way from over 4 to 5% where the need and theirs are now to make contributions and why we choose to invest in these, in these funds. Here I thank you for, for your attention, and I hope you will accept these amendments and amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u54999	Here we have a few replicas, the first respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55000	Dear Secretary of State, I only have one question. Are you aware that by passing this law, Croatia will practically become only a riel or sells for foreign investment funds, and that most likely our investment companies will decrease because as it has been since '08. to this day practically half the shares... from the Zagreb Stock Exchange that the same trend will follow the way of investment? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are practically working with this on making money from Croatia invested somewhere outside, not in Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55001	Here's a thank you. So, yes, one of the things that allows here are equal rules of the game for everyone. And today is not new, so it is possible and today it is possible, only different rules, different obligations, inequalities are what is seen that in some countries it can do more, in some countries more liberally, in some countries it is not, somewhere the different information and information provided to investors is made available, somewhere it is not, and this leads to more transparency, greater security, so there is nothing new about the types of investment itself, but it is also possible for us. Of course, I, as a private investor, would like to invest and like to have the breadth of my investment opportunities and taxes or taxes on my contributions from investments, will pay in Croatia. So, if I want to invest in the car industry, it could be a Roman, and it could be another 10-bit series of companies around the world or Europe that I want to bet on them so I say by investing in getting certain contributions, but I'm going to pay here. Of course, we aim to develop the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55002	Next replica Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55003	Well, here's something I wanted to ask you, but since you called me and said you didn't realize whether I was for a planned economy or for capitalism let's describe it so briefly, that reduction is interesting. So I was only talking about different models in China, but also in Germany, not to invest so much or go on investment, but really going on investment through banks, but good. What I really care about is not this dichotomy which is a brutal reduction means to a planned economy or capitalism, but to stop it means to serganically copy documents from the EU and to start our own policy and reflect on the fact that we are at the beginning of Europe and not to justify ourselves, and it is quite amazing that you have said here, that we are still relatively young. So who's young when he's 30? So we really shouldn't repeat that we're relatively young. Not that we can no longer get away with being young but we radically need to change the direction we're going.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55004	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55005	So, thank you. When we talk about the state of the market, we need to know the reasons if we want to know where we're going. We can't compare ourselves to some who have a century-old tradition and that's a fact. So our parents', grandparents', and our younger generations were different who we grew up in socialism where there were no conversations about some funds, investments, that was the foreign word, the war part, the transition model and where we are right now. For someone who had access to such information and something that seemed normal, that's a fact. Could we have done better? Well, thank God we did. And do we need to? We do, I don't think there's anyone here who's gonna say we're great. Well, it's not. If we look at what the problem is, we need to know what the problem is that we can solve it. If we can detect it in the very information we know about why culture itself came. We have to change people's customs, so the culture of investment is what's important, and that's where we have to go, and I think this kind of debate encourages them to listen to this kind of data and talk like this. Okay, but that's too small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55006	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55007	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State. So, we always need to know what our situation is, so at this point we know that we have a great savings, we know that people in Croatia traditionally invest in real estate and especially when there are some crises, or when the idea of some kind of crisis is seen this increased investment in real estate which, of course, leads to the fact that the price of real estate is much bigger and real estate business, and we see that what might actually encourage a particular story with money is funds at all, and here only at the very beginning of Europe, so in this society we are with Bulgaria and Slovenia and there is no movement. Now, the question is how to make a move and the question is so I don't think a man should always invent hot water, I think we should see some models that are most acceptable to us. What are you reading at the Ministry of Finance, what are the models of which a state that would be acceptable to us? I'm sure with some China and America, we can hardly compare, but maybe with some other country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55008	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55009	Thank you. So, as far as the model is concerned, this phrase you said well, we don't need to invent hot water, so as far as the model is concerned, we're part of the European common market, the flow of goods, the services, and we can't, nor can we, now, need anything more intelligent to pass some new laws, models in the functioning of the capital market than those that went through 100 years or 50 years ago, we just need to take advantage of their knowledge and what they are now offering us almost all their experience and give us all their models on the plate and we transfer them. But I'm saying not to leave a dead letter on paper, it's free of charge that we're gonna pass this law and let's vote it and unanimity anyway if we don't work on it and work on what we've all agreed on here. When we're talking about why we're here where we are, we need to know the reasons, but even more importantly where we want to be, which is why and how to get there. One of the sureties here is that we all agreed on a way to encourage investment in what is safer and greater contribution to development, the whole economy, and it's even groundless and I think we're all on the same track.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55010	Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55011	Mr. Secretary of State. I think now in the last sentence you're actually saying what's the point, where we want to be and how to get to it. So there are several doubts that I am meeting, which I also heard from my colleagues, which is that money from Croatia is not being invested in Croatia, that Croatian citizens who have capital traditionally or savings, so armed bank deposits or invest in real estate. Our banks are full of money, our savings interest is very low, and the question remains that this money that is dead capital, which lies in a bank or in some real estate is artificially inflating the cost of real estate, to direct it to something that will give added value. Increase security, transparency, lower risk that is the path to go, but consider whether you are considering some other models and tools to try to channel that dead capital into something that could fertilize and then result in economic growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55012	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55013	Yeah, there's actually dancing here all the time, and nobody mentioned it, I'll mention it without any complex. Of course, we can discuss here various tax burdens, savings and tax burdens on real estate or real estate tax, savings tax in general, and then whether it is a communal property tax or not to abolish the same tax, etc. Surely one of the goals of how to do this is to allow these regulatory discharges to work as much as possible, cheaper work, more accessible work of precisely these societies, or the funds themselves, so that they can focus as much on these pre-marketing, marketing activities as possible and be more accessible to potential investors. The very height of the savings roles is not symptomatic for Croatia, it is symptomatic for any crisis period and this has an increase at EU and even world level, but the question is good how to direct it to what gives us all one greater growth and greater prosperity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55014	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55015	My dear secretary. We have heard this several times in debates, and we have mentioned many times that it is important for us to be transparent, on the other hand it says in our bill in an explanation that, in fact, for small managers of alternative investment funds, one part of the report will be abolished, one part of the report remains, meaning those six-month reports for managers of alternative investment funds, then six-month reports for alternative investment funds and another report that is related to the directive. I couldn't find that four supplement that's mentioned inside to see what it looks like, so I'm asking you, given that one part of the report is abolished, is it then in these reports that these half-yearly reports remain that the data will be more detailed, or is it going to go to a lower level, and is this going to be processed in more detail?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55016	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55017	Here's a thank you. Yeah, that, that's well noticed. So first of all, when we went to those reports, we were just listening to those who were doing this and watching what we got with those reports, how much we increased security, how much we increased transparency. We had according to the Capital Market Act and certain half-yearly reports on ownership of own shares and trading in the same ones, and which eventually found that they simply did not bring this necessary level of security, and only administratively burdened, and the costs were shown to them by certain companies now between the two readings we gave up not as we but just the supervisory authority that followed it. We in some things have, like, as a society, the need for reregulation and what's good to diagnose which administrative bans don't bring full meaning and don't give us what might be intended. And if you see over time that that's how it is then we're going this way and I hope it gets more activity on the capital market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-02-0.u55018	Thank you, Secretary of State. With this we have exhausted the debate, I conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met,
